Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Our revenue and profitability may be significantly reduced or eliminated if management is unable to successfully execute our turnaround plan to improve the operating results of our legacy IPA Management segment. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, the company reported operating losses in its legacy IPA Management (non-ProMed) segment. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, the company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of approximately $27.5 million to write off goodwill and intangibles within the continuing legacy IPA Management segment, which resulted in overall losses in the company's core operations. We have developed a turnaround plan to restore profitability, increase efficiency and reduce operating costs of the legacy IPA Management segment. This includes measures to help retain and, if possible, increase enrollment, increase health plan reimbursements and reduce medical costs. Additionally, we may divest additional non-strategic assets, a portion of the proceeds from which will be used to reduce debt. Turnaround efforts related to the company's legacy operations and the successful integration of recently acquired subsidiaries have required and will continue to require significant investment and management attention. If we are unable to successfully execute our turnaround plan to improve the operating results of our legacy IPA Management segment, our revenue and profitability may be significantly reduced or eliminated. Decreases in the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks reduce our profitability and inhibit future growth. During recent periods, the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks has declined (exclusive of increases resulting from our acquisitions), and management currently anticipates that this trend will continue. The profitability and growth of our business depends largely on the number of HMO members who use our provider networks. We seek to maintain and increase the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks by partnering with HMOs with which our affiliated physician organizations have contracts, affiliating with additional IPAs and acquiring other management companies. If we are not successful, we may not be able to maintain or achieve profitability. For the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, the decrease in the number of HMO enrollees, within the continuing and discontinued legacy IPA segment, using our existing provider networks was 37,200 and 12,200, respectively. Estimated revenue reductions associated with the enrollment decreases for those periods were approximately $14,000,000 and $5,700,000, respectively. These fiscal year estimates assume that enrollment decreased ratably during the indicated periods and, as such, represent approximately 50% of the lost revenue that will be experienced in subsequent periods, when the enrollment decline is in effect for the whole period. 37 Table of Contents A deficit in working capital could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due. At various times in our history, we have been in a negative working capital position. Having a working capital deficit may signal an impaired ability to pay debts as they come due. We had positive working capital of $12,373,184 and $2,406,224 as of September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively and negative working capital of $123,898 as of September 30, 2006. This represents the difference between our current assets and our current liabilities. As of the fiscal years ended 2008 and 2007, our indebtedness for capital leases and notes to our bank totaled approximately $144,804,000 and $147,750,000, respectively. We have historically used cash reserves and cash flow from operations and equity offerings to reduce our indebtedness and fund acquisitions. If our goodwill and intangible assets become impaired, the impaired portion has to be written off, which will materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. As of September 30, 2007, we concluded that the goodwill and other intangible assets related to our pre-2006 acquisitions (i.e., excluding ProMed and Alta) were impaired, and recorded a write-off of $27,512,420 within the continuing legacy IPA Management segment. Following the 2007 acquisitions of ProMed and Alta, our intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. As of September 30, 2008, goodwill totaled approximately $128,877,000 and other intangible assets totaled approximately $47,740,000 for a combined total of $176,617,000, representing approximately 60% of our total assets. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued two standards related to business combinations. The first statement, SFAS No. 141, "Business Combinations," requires all business combinations after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method and prohibits the pooling-of-interest method of accounting. SFAS No. 141 also states that acquired intangible assets should be separately recognized upon meeting certain criteria. Such intangible assets include, but are not limited to, trade and service marks, non-compete agreements, customer lists and licenses. The second statement, SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," requires, among other things, that the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets will be evaluated for impairment at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators are encountered. A two-step impairment test is used to identify potential goodwill impairment and to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any). The first step of the goodwill impairment test, which is used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired, making the second step of the impairment test unnecessary. A finding that the value of our goodwill and intangible assets has been impaired requires us to write off the impaired portion, which significantly reduces the value of our assets and reduces our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. Prior to the fiscal 2007 write down, since we adopted SFAS No. 142 for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2002, no impairment had been found and no write-off had been required. 38 Table of Contents We may not be able to make any additional acquisitions without first obtaining additional financing and obtaining the consent of our lenders. Although we have no specific agreements for additional acquisitions pending, our long-term growth strategy includes making additional acquisitions. Any future acquisitions will require additional capital resources. No assurance can be given that needed capital will be available to us. The global credit markets have been experiencing significant disruption and volatility in recent months, to a greater degree than has been seen in decades. That volatility has made it much harder for smaller public companies like us to obtain debt financing and therefore, if we are able to obtain debt financing, we may be required to accept more onerous terms including requirements to maintain specified asset, liquidity or other ratios and restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Additionally, a continuation of the deterioration in credit markets could adversely impact our ability to refinance any of our existing debt. Although the implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which was approved by the U.S. Congress and signed into law by President Bush on October 3, 2008, and related measures is expected to improve liquidity in the financial markets and increase the availability of financing, the timing and magnitude of the impact is highly uncertain at this time. Future prolonged periods of reduced availability of financing could have a material adverse impact on our business. To finance our ongoing capital requirements, we may, from time to time, issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt. A greater amount of debt or additional equity financing could be required to the extent that our common stock fails to achieve or to maintain a market value sufficient to warrant its use in future acquisitions, or to the extent that acquisition targets are unwilling to accept common stock in exchange for their businesses. Our ability to issue debt instruments or equity securities in a public or private sale is restricted by the loan agreements with our lenders. The loan agreements place significant restrictions on our ability to use loan proceeds for acquisitions and prohibit us from borrowing outside of the loan agreements, for acquisitions or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the lenders. The loan agreements also prohibit us from using the proceeds of any sale of equity securities except to pay down indebtedness under the loan agreements. Thus, we must obtain the written consent of our lenders before we use any loan proceeds for acquisitions and before we issue any debt or equity securities to raise financing for acquisitions. Our lenders may grant or withhold such consent in the lenders' sole discretion. If our lenders are unwilling to consent to our use of loan proceeds or our issuance of debt or equity securities to finance acquisitions, we would have to abort any growth plan that depends on those financing sources. Even if we were able to obtain required consents from our lenders, we may not be able to obtain additional required capital on acceptable terms, if at all, which would limit our plans for growth. In addition, any capital we may be able to raise could result in increased leverage on our balance sheet, additional interest and financing expense, decreased operating income and/or dilution of existing equity owners. Additionally, as of September 30, 2007, we were not in compliance with certain financial and other covenants under our loan agreements. These covenant violations were waived effective May 15, 2008 by the lenders, but there can be no assurance that the lenders will waive any future covenant violations. If we are not able to comply with the financial covenants and other conditions required by our loan agreements, our lenders could require full repayment of the loans, which would very negatively impact our liquidity, ability to make further acquisitions and our ability to continue as a going concern. We are subject to certain financial covenants and other conditions under our loan agreements which, if we are not able to satisfy, could result in loan defaults and the requirement to repay our loans in full, thus jeopardizing our ability to operate and continue as a going concern. We are subject to certain financial covenants and other conditions required by our loan agreements, including a maximum senior debt/EBITDA ratio, a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio and, effective May 15, 2008, a minimum EBITDA Level. We exceeded the maximum senior debt/ 39 Table of Contents EBITDA ratio of 3.75 as of September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008. We also failed to meet the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.25 for the period ended December 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008. In addition, we did not comply with certain administrative covenants. On May 15, 2008, our lenders agreed to waive our covenant violations and to increase the required maximum senior debt/EBITDA ratios to levels ranging from 7.15 to 3.90 for future monthly reporting periods from April 30, 2008 through June 30, 2009 and to levels ranging from 3.75 to 3.30 for the remaining quarterly reporting periods through maturity of the term loan and to reduce the minimum fixed charge coverage ratios to levels ranging from 0.475 to 0.925 for future monthly reporting periods from April 30, 2008 through June 30, 2009 and to levels ranging from 0.85 to 0.90 for the remaining quarterly reporting periods through maturity of the term loan. Failure to perform any obligations under the waiver and the amended credit facility agreement constitutes additional events of default. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all of the financial covenants and other conditions required by our amended loan agreements. Our lenders may not grant waivers of future covenant violations and could also require full repayment of the loan, which would negatively impact our liquidity, ability to operate, ability to make further acquisitions and ability to continue as a going concern. Substantially all of our IPA revenues are generated from contracts with a limited number of HMOs, and if our affiliated physician organizations were to lose HMO contracts or to renew HMO contracts on less favorable terms, our revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced. With the consolidation of HMOs, there are a limited number of HMOs doing business in California, which magnifies the risk of loss of any one HMO contract. The potential for risk is also magnified because HMO contracts generally have only a one-year term, may be terminated earlier without cause upon short notice, and, upon renewal, are subject to annual negotiation of capitation rates, covered benefits and other terms and conditions. We are particularly at risk with respect to the potential loss or renewal on less favorable terms of contracts that we have with five of these HMOs—PacifiCare of California, Blue Cross of California, Health Net of California, Blue Shield of California and, effective with the June 1, 2007 acquisition of ProMed, InterValley Health Plan. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, contracts with our five largest HMO clients accounted for approximately 76% of our enrollment, of which our contracts with PacifiCare of California, Health Net of California, Blue Cross of California, Blue Shield of California, and InterValley Health Plan accounted for approximately 21%, 13%, 14%, 11%, and 17%, respectively, of our enrollment. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, our contracts with these five HMOs accounted for combined revenue of approximately $158,964,000, or 76% of our total capitation revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, contracts with our five largest HMO clients accounted for approximately 77% of our enrollment, or approximately 79% of our total capitation revenue. The loss of contracts with any one of these HMOs could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We have one-year automatically renewable contracts with most contracted HMOs, including our largest HMO customers discussed above, whereby such contracts are automatically renewed, unless either party provides the other party with 180-days' notice (prior to the expiration of the term) of such party's intent not to renew. Under limited circumstances, the HMOs may immediately terminate the contracts for cause; otherwise, termination for cause requires 90 days' prior written notice with an opportunity to cure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these contracts or, if renewed, that they will contain terms favorable to us. 40 Table of Contents Our profitability may be reduced or eliminated if we are not able to manage health care costs of our affiliated physician organizations effectively. Our success depends in large part on our effective management of health care costs, through control over our affiliated physician organizations, controlling utilization of specialty and ancillary care and purchasing services at competitive prices. We attempt to control the health care costs of our affiliated physician organizations' HMO enrollees by emphasizing preventive care, monitoring compliance with pharmacy formularies (i.e., a list of approved pharmaceutical drugs that the HMOs will provide an enrollee at a lesser cost than other drugs), entering into risk sharing agreements with hospitals that have favorable rate and utilization structures, and requiring prior authorization for specialist physician referrals. If we cannot maintain or improve our management of health care costs, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to satisfy our obligations could be adversely affected. Under all current HMO contracts, our affiliated physician organizations accept the financial risk for the provision of primary care and specialty physician services, and some ancillary health care services. If we are unable to negotiate favorable prices or rates in contracts with providers of these services, or if our affiliated physician organizations are unable to effectively control the utilization of these services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. Our ability to manage health care costs is also diminished to the extent that we are unable to sub-capitate the specialists in our service areas at competitive rates. To the extent that our HMO enrollees require more frequent or extensive care, our operating margins may be reduced and the revenues derived from our capitation contracts may be insufficient to cover the costs of the services provided. Our revenue and profitability could be significantly reduced and could also fluctuate significantly from period to period under Medicare's Risk Adjusted payment methodology. In calendar 2004, CMS began a four year phase-in of a revised compensation model for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans. Previously, monthly capitation revenue was based primarily on age, sex and location. The CMS revised payment model seeks to compensate Medicare Managed Care organizations based on the health status of each individual enrollee. Health Plans/IPAs with enrollees that can be proven to require more care will receive more, and those with enrollees requiring less care will receive less. This is referred to by CMS as "Risk Adjustment." Increased numbers of office visits by members, and submission of encounter data is required in order to receive incremental revenue, or not lose revenue for any given member. This requires a great deal of continuous effort on our part, and co-operation on the parts of our contracted physicians and members. We have not always been able to gain this co-operation from the contracted physicians and members, or devote the resources necessary to obtain incremental Risk Adjustment revenue, or avoid having previously received revenue taken back from us. Additionally, because of the time required by CMS to process all of the submitted encounter data from all participating entities, we typically do not find out until the latter part of the calendar year what adjustments will be made to our Medicare revenue for the prior year, at which time those adjustments to revenue, which have historically been significant, are recorded. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we received approximately $1.6 million and $1.5 million, respectively, in incremental Risk Adjustment revenue, which was recorded in the respective fiscal fourth quarter. Again, this adjustment became known, and was recorded, in the fiscal fourth quarter, even though the majority of the adjustment related to earlier periods. Given the deadlines for submitting data to CMS, and CMS's processing time in order to calculate these Risk Adjustment revenue changes, we have no way of reliably estimating the impact of Risk 41 Table of Contents Adjustment until such time as those adjustments are made known by CMS. As such, retroactive Risk Adjustments will be recorded each year in the quarter they become known, notwithstanding that a significant portion of those adjustments will relate to earlier periods. These adjustments will continue to be significant. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our actual health care claims exceed our reserves. At certain times in our history, we have not had adequate cash resources to retire one hundred percent of our incurred but not reported ("IBNR") medical claims. As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, we have sufficient cash to retire our estimated accrued medical claims of $20,480,380 and $21,405,960, respectively, in full. Historically, we have been able to satisfy our claims payment obligations each month out of cash flows from operations and existing cash reserves. However, in the event that our revenues are substantially reduced due to a loss of a significant HMO contract or other factors, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay off claims on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unable to pay claims timely we may be subject to HMO de-delegation wherein the HMO would take away our claims processing functions and perform the functions on our behalf, charging us a fee per enrollee, a requirement by the HMO to comply with a corrective action plan, and/or termination of the HMO contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. We estimate the amount of our reserves for submitted claims and IBNR claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis, are continually reviewed and are adjusted in current operations as required. As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, we estimated our IBNR at approximately $20,480,000 and $21,406,000, respectively. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the reserves could materially understate or overstate our actual liability for claims payable. Any increases to these prior estimates could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. We may be exposed to liability or fail to estimate IBNR claims accurately if we cannot process any increased volume of claims accurately and timely. We have regulatory risk for the timely processing and payment of claims. If we are unable to handle increased claims volume, or if we are unable to pay claims timely we may become subject to an HMO corrective action plan or de-delegation until the problem is corrected, and/or termination of the HMO agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, if our claims processing system is unable to process claims accurately, the data we use for our IBNR estimates could be incomplete and our ability to accurately estimate claims liabilities and establish adequate reserves could be adversely affected. Medicare, Medi-Cal and private third-party payer cost containment efforts and reductions in reimbursement rates could reduce our hospital revenue and our cash flow. In fiscal 2008, our hospitals derived 93.0% of their revenues from the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs. Changes in recent years in the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. Payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease program payments, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. Future federal and state legislation may further reduce the payments we receive for our services. The State of California has incurred budget deficits and has adopted legislation designed to reduce its Medi-Cal expenditures. We are unable to predict the effect of future state or federal healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are 42 Table of Contents reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited, or if we, or one or more of our hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medi-Cal program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Employers have also passed more healthcare benefit costs on to employees to reduce the employers' health insurance expense. This trend has caused the self-pay/deductible component of healthcare services to become more common. This payer shifting increases collection costs and reduces overall collections. During the past several years, major purchasers of healthcare, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, purchasers increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payers to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, these payers have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. The trends may result in a reduction from historical levels in per patient revenue received by our hospitals and affiliated physician organizations. On November 4, 2008, Barack Obama was elected as the next President of the United States. The President-elect has proposed measures intended to expand the number of citizens covered by health insurance and other changes within the healthcare system. The costs of implementing some of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made to healthcare providers under Medicare, Medi-Cal, and other government programs. See "Future reforms in healthcare legislation and regulation could reduce our revenues and profitability," below. Risk-sharing arrangements that our affiliated physician organizations have with HMOs and hospitals could result in their costs exceeding the corresponding revenues, which could reduce or eliminate any shared risk profitability. Most of our affiliated physician organizations' agreements with HMOs and hospitals contain risk-sharing arrangements under which the affiliated physician organizations can earn additional compensation by coordinating the provision of high quality, cost-effective health care to enrollees, but they may also be required to assume a portion of any loss sustained from these arrangements, thereby reducing our net income. Risk-sharing arrangements are based upon the cost of hospital services or other services for which our physician organizations are not capitated. The terms of the particular risk-sharing arrangement allocate responsibility to the respective parties when the cost of services exceeds the related revenue, which results in a "deficit," and permit the parties to share in any surplus amounts when actual costs are less than the related revenue. The amount of non-capitated and hospital costs in any period could be affected by factors beyond our control, such as changes in treatment protocols, new technologies and inflation. To the extent that such non-capitated and hospital costs are higher than anticipated, revenue may not be sufficient to cover the risk-sharing deficits they are responsible for, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. It is our experience that "deficit" amounts for hospital costs are applied to offset any future "surplus" amount we would otherwise be entitled to receive. We have historically not been required to reimburse the HMOs for any hospital cost deficit amounts. Most of our contracts with HMOs specifically provide that we will not have to reimburse the HMO for hospital cost deficit amounts. HMOs often insist on withholding negotiated amounts from professional capitation payments, which the HMOs are permitted to retain, in order to cover our share of any risk-sharing deficits; and hospitals may demand cash settlements of risk sharing deficits as a "quid pro quo" for joining in these 43 Table of Contents arrangements. Net risk-pool surpluses (deficits) were approximately $3,141,000 and ($470,000), for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition to hospital risk-sharing arrangements, many HMOs also provide a risk-sharing arrangement for pharmaceutical costs. Unlike hospital pools where nearly all of the HMO contracts mandate participation by our affiliated physician organizations in the risk sharing for hospital costs, a lesser number of the HMO contracts mandate participation in a pharmacy risk-sharing arrangement, and although (unlike hospital pools) our affiliated physician organizations are generally responsible for their 50% allocation of pharmacy cost deficits, the deficit amounts of pharmacy costs have to date not had a material effect on our revenue. To date, we have not suffered significant losses due to hospital risk arrangements other than offsets (for deficit amounts) against any future surpluses we otherwise would have received. To date our aggregate losses in connection with our pharmacy risk sharing arrangements have been insignificant. Whenever possible, we seek to contractually reduce or eliminate our affiliated physician organizations' liability for risk-sharing deficits and, with respect to pharmacy pools, eliminate their participation in such pools. Notwithstanding the foregoing, risk-sharing deficits could have a significant impact on our future profitability. If we do not successfully integrate the operations of acquired physician organizations, our costs could increase, our business could be disrupted, and we may not be able to realize the desired benefits from those acquisitions. Our strategy for growth has historically been to acquire additional IPAs that specialize in managed care and to realize economies of scale from those acquisitions. However, even if we are successful in consummating further acquisitions, we may not be successful in integrating their operations into our operating systems. It may be difficult and time consuming to integrate the acquired organizations' management services, information systems, claims administration, and case management, as well as administrative functions, while at the same time managing a larger entity with a differing history, business model and culture. Management may be required to develop working relationships with providers with whom they have had no previous business experience. Management also may not be able to obtain the necessary economies of scale. Integration of acquired entities is vital for us to be able to operate effectively and to control medical and administrative costs. If we are not successful in integrating acquired operations on a timely basis, or at all, our business could be disrupted and we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, including cost savings. There may be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisition and integration activities, any of which could result in significant one-time or on-going charges to earnings or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. The acquisition of hospitals and subsequent integration with our business of managing physician organizations may prove to be difficult and may outweigh the synergistic benefits anticipated in the marketplace. Our core business has historically been that of a healthcare management services company that manages independent physician associations that provide healthcare services to HMO enrollees. Until recently it has experienced profitable growth by acquiring and consolidating IPAs, achieving economies of scale in reducing administrative costs and improving the operating efficiency of acquired entities. In diversifying acquisition targets beyond its IPA business, it will be facing a myriad of unique operational, financial and regulatory issues in a hospital environment that could prove to be a drain on existing resources, and be a significant distraction from other initiatives facing the organization. For instance, hospital revenue from Medicare, Medi-Cal and other third parties are tentative in nature and subject to audits by third-party fiscal intermediaries. Finally, changing legislation on the funding and recognition of hospital revenues could negatively impact financial performance and cause earnings decreases. Moreover, in recent years Congress has enacted legislation on Disproportionate Share Hospital 44 Table of Contents Payments ("DSH") revisiting the program's intent and methodologies for calculating payments to hospitals. There have recently been other initiatives proposed to reduce the overall funding of Medicare and Medi-Cal programs, coupled with increased regulation on the disbursement methodology for such funds. Unfavorable outcomes on such legislation could cause a reduction in revenues generated as compared to prior years. Hospitals with union contracts could experience setbacks from unfavorable negotiations with union members. One of our hospitals has a collective bargaining agreement ("CBA") with a union involving a small portion of hospital staff. This agreement specifies employee benefits for those represented by the CBA, including compensation rates, hours of work, overtime, vacation, holiday, sick, and health and retirement benefits. Unsuccessful negotiations between hospital officials and union representatives could have an unfavorable impact on day-to-day operations of that hospital. Hospital operations are capital intensive and could prove to be a drain on cash. Operating a hospital requires a significant continual investment in capital assets, particularly in hospital machinery and equipment. Due to obsolescence and heavy usage, hospital capital assets may require more frequent replacement, and at a higher cost relative to that in an independent physician organization. Additionally, according to the California Hospital Association, 1,022 hospitals statewide would have to be upgraded by the year 2013 to comply with seismic retrofitting guidelines established by legislation enacted in the 1990's. With additional acquisitions of hospitals, the capital investment required to maintain hospital operations at an optimal level could be significant. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances are continually being made regarding computer-assisted tomography ("CT") scanners, magnetic resonance imaging ("MRI") equipment, positron emission tomography ("PET") scanners and other similar equipment. In order to effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not invest significantly and stay abreast of technological advances in the health care industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources. The continued growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or further deterioration in the collectibility of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced large provisions for bad debts, totaling $5.8 million or 4.6% of total net patient revenue for fiscal 2008, due to a growth in self-pay volume. Although we continue to seek ways of improving collection efforts and implementing appropriate payment plans for our services, if we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenue, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay and other patients may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable include uninsured patient accounts and to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based upon our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer health care coverage and other collection indicators. If we continue to experience significant levels of uninsured 45 Table of Contents and underinsured patients, and bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Because we are obligated to provide care in certain circumstances regardless of whether we will get paid for providing such care, if the number of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals increases, our results of operations may be harmed. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of their ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical examination and treatment as is required in order to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our hospital revenue. Controls imposed by third party payers that are designed to reduce admissions and the average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as "utilization management," have affected and are expected to continue to affect results for our hospital facilities. Utilization management reviews entail an evaluation of a patient's admission and course of treatment by healthcare payers. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payer-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payer pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative health care delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of increasing utilization management efforts by payers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Our hospital revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control, including weather conditions, severity of annual flu seasons and other factors. Our hospital revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payer programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes and the intensity and timing of yearly flu outbreaks. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and volume trends, and none of these factors will be within the control of our management. An increasing portion of our IPA revenue is "at risk" and difficult to project, which increases uncertainty regarding future revenues, cash flow projections, and profitability. Historically, our revenue has primarily consisted of contractually guaranteed capitation revenue from HMOs based on a fixed per-member-per-month rate. In recent years, new revenue sources including pay for performance, risk sharing and risk adjustment have been added that will represent an increasingly significant portion of our total revenue. The newly introduced revenue sources, and reimbursement methods are more difficult to project and have a much longer collection cycle. Pay for performance revenue is paid on an approximate one-year lag basis, and predicated on health plan funding being available as well as on the ability of the organization and its partner physicians to achieve certain criteria. These performance thresholds are typically in the areas of clinical measures, 46 Table of Contents patient satisfaction, IT investment, encounter data submission and generic drug utilization. The ultimate receipt of pay for performance monies can vary with our relative performance in comparison to that of competitor medical groups and our ability to successfully modify physician behavior in these areas. Similarly, risk sharing and risk adjustment revenues have more variability than capitated arrangements and can require a lengthy reconciliation and reimbursement process. As mentioned previously, incremental revenue generated by both sources involves not only our ability to control medical costs and influence provider and member behavior (i.e., office visits, encounter data submission, etc.), but also is contingent on certain other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to negotiate or complete acquisitions on favorable terms, our prospects for growth could be limited. Although we are regularly in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, it may be difficult to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate satisfactory terms with them. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices, our ability to grow by acquisition could be limited. Any acquisitions we complete in the future could potentially dilute the equity interests of our current stockholders or could increase our indebtedness and cost of debt service, thereby reducing our profitability. If we issue common stock or other equity securities as consideration for future acquisitions, this could have a dilutive effect on the earnings and market price of our common stock. If we borrow to finance future acquisitions, our indebtedness and cost of debt service will increase, which will reduce our profitability. Our acquisition initiatives may be put on hold until such time that we achieve a lower financial leverage. Pursuant to the amended senior credit facility agreement entered into on May 15, 2008, we are subject to certain financial covenants including a maximum senior debt/EBITDA ratio and a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, including the pre-acquisition results of any acquired entities. Until we achieve a lower financial leverage, such requirements could impede our future acquisition strategy. We operate in a highly competitive market; increased competition could adversely affect our revenues. A number of factors affect our HMO membership levels and patient census at our hospitals. Both the IPA and the hospital industry are highly competitive. In addition to the competition we face for acquisitions and physicians, we must also compete with other hospitals and healthcare providers for patients, which competition has continued to intensify in recent years. Our hospitals face competition from hospitals inside and outside of their primary service areas, including hospitals that provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to these other hospitals for a variety of reasons. These reasons include physician referrals or the need for services we do not offer. Patients who seek services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services that we provide. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit corporations. Tax-exempt competitors may have certain financial advantages not available to our facilities, such as endowments, charitable contributions, tax-exempt financing, and exemptions from sales, property and income taxes. In California some not-for-profit hospitals are permitted by law to directly employ physicians while for-profit hospitals are prohibited from doing so. We also face increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery, diagnostic and imaging centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. 47 Table of Contents If competing health care providers are better able to attract patients, recruit and retain physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care and other contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in inpatient and outpatient volume levels. Our inability to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers could cause local residents to use other hospitals. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. If any of our hospitals should achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these ten quality criteria, patient volumes could decline. In the future, other trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volume. The managed care industry is also highly competitive and is subject to continuing changes in the ways in which services are provided and providers are selected and paid. We are subject to significant competition with respect to physicians affiliating with our affiliated physician organizations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and other resources and experience than we do and, as a result, may compete more effectively than we can. Companies in other health care industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than we do, may become competitors in providing similar services. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry. Additional competitors may enter our markets and this increased competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Failure to comply with federal and state regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in business operations. Companies such as ours that provide health care services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. We and our affiliated physician organizations are subject to numerous federal and state statutes and regulations that are applicable to health care organizations and businesses generally, including the corporate practice of medicine prohibition, federal and state anti-kickback laws and federal and state laws regarding the use and disclosure of patient health information. If our business operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and increased legal expenses, we may be required to make costly changes to our business operations, and we may be excluded from government reimbursement programs. The laws and regulations that we and our affiliated physician organizations are subject to are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Any action against us or our affiliated physician organizations for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defended against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. All of these consequences could have the effect of reducing our revenues, increasing our costs, decreasing our profitability and curtailing our growth. For a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1, "Business—Regulation." Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also become unable to participate in Medicare, Medi-Cal, and other federal and state health care programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. 48 Table of Contents Because many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are relatively new or highly complex, in many cases we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. Significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home health care services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts and the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives include a focus on hospital billing practices. We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with current industry practices. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within the industry and, in some cases, they have not yet been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. The health care industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the "Stark law" prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medi-Cal patients to providers of enumerated "designated health services" with whom the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be "self referrals" due to the physician's financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient's care. Companies in the hospital industry are subject to Medicare and Medi-Cal anti-fraud and abuse provisions, known as the "anti-kickback statute." As a company in the hospital industry, we are subject to the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits some business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medi-Cal and other federal healthcare programs. For example, the anti-kickback statute prohibits hospitals from paying or receiving remuneration to induce or arrange for the referral of patients or purchase of items or services covered by a federal or state 49 Table of Contents healthcare program. If regulatory authorities determine that any of our hospitals' arrangements violate the anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including: •criminal penalties; •civil monetary penalties; and/or •exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medi-Cal or other federal healthcare programs, any of which could impair our ability to operate one or more of our hospitals profitably. We systematically review all of our operations on an ongoing basis and believe that we are in compliance with the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating strategic joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the relationships in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program in order to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medi-Cal programs. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government's behalf under the False Claims Act's "qui tam" or whistleblower provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Defendants found to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term "knowingly" broadly. Although simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity constitutes a "knowing" submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will give rise to liability. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. In addition, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. Future reforms in healthcare legislation and regulation could reduce our revenues and profitability. On November 4, 2008, Barack Obama was elected as the next President of the United States. Although it is premature to speculate on specific legislation, as reflected on their campaign website, www.BarackObama.com, President-elect Obama supports multiple proposals for healthcare reform. The proposals include an expansion of health insurance coverage by (a) expanding the coverage of Medi-Cal and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), (b) requiring that all children have health insurance and (c) requiring that large employers offer health insurance coverage or contribute to the 50 Table of Contents cost of such coverage. The President-elect has also expressed a desire to provide small employers or individuals without access to other public programs or employer-based coverage with the ability to enroll in a new public plan, currently referred to as the "National Health Insurance Exchange," or to choose from a range of approved private plans. Additionally, the President-elect has expressed a desire to (a) encourage adoption of new health information technology, (b) improve quality measurements, (c) modify payments to reward value and (d) provide more information to consumers regarding the costs and quality of healthcare services. Any changes that are implemented to achieve such goals may significantly increase our administrative costs and/or result in our receipt of lower payments for services rendered. Additionally, numerous other legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would also result in major changes in the healthcare delivery system on a national or a state level. Among the other proposals that have been introduced are California healthcare coverage for the uninsured and price controls on hospitals. We cannot predict whether any of the President-elect's proposals, the other proposals listed above or any other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The costs of implementing some of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made to healthcare providers under Medicare, Medi-Cal, and other government programs. Future legislation, regulations, interpretations, or other changes to the healthcare system could reduce our revenues and profitability. If our affiliated physician organizations are not able to satisfy California Department of Managed Health Care financial solvency requirements, we could become subject to sanctions and our ability to do business in this segment in California could be limited or ended. The California Department of Managed Health Care ("DMHC") has instituted financial solvency regulations. The regulations are intended to provide a formal mechanism for monitoring the financial solvency of capitated physician groups. Management believes that our affiliated physician organizations that are subject to these regulations will be able to comply with them. However, these regulations could limit the company's ability to use its cash resources to make future acquisitions. Under the regulations, our affiliated physician organizations are required to comply with specific criteria, including: •Maintain, at all times, a minimum "cash-to-claims ratio" (where "cash-to-claims ratio" means the organization's cash, marketable securities and certain qualified receivables, divided by the organization's total unpaid claims liability.) The regulations require a cash-to-claims ratio of 0.75 beginning January 1, 2007. •Submit periodic reports to the DMHC containing various data and attestations regarding performance and financial solvency, including IBNR (incurred but not reported) calculations and documentation, and attestations as to whether or not the organization was in compliance with Knox-Keene Act requirements related to claims payment timeliness, had maintained positive tangible net equity, and had maintained positive working capital. In a case where an organization is not in compliance with any of the above criteria, the organization would be required to describe in the report submitted to the DMHC the reasons for non-compliance and actions to be taken to bring the organization into compliance. Further, under these regulations, the DMHC will make public some of the information contained in the reports, including, but not limited to, whether or not a particular physician organization met each of the criteria. In the event our affiliated physician organizations are not able to meet certain of the financial solvency requirements, and fail to meet subsequent corrective action plans, we could be subject to sanction, or 51 Table of Contents limitations on, or removal of, our ability to do business in this segment in California. Our cash-to-claims ratio at September 30, 2008, was 1.68. Whenever we seek to acquire an IPA, an HMO that has a contract with that IPA could potentially refuse to consent to the transfer of its contract, and this could effectively stop the acquisition or potentially deprive us of the enrollees and revenues associated with that HMO contract if we chose to complete the acquisition without the HMO's consent. IPA contracts with HMOs typically include provisions requiring the physician group to obtain the HMO's consent to the transfer of their contract with the IPA before effecting any change in control of the IPA. As a result, whenever we seek to acquire an IPA, the acquisition may be conditioned upon the IPA's ability to obtain such consent from the HMOs with which it has contracted. Therefore, an acquisition could be delayed while an HMO seeks to determine whether it will consent to the transfer of the IPA. While in our experience the HMOs limit their review to satisfying their regulatory responsibility to ensure that, following the acquisition, the IPA post-acquisition will meet certain financial and operational thresholds, the language in many of the HMO agreements give the HMO the ability to decline to give their consent if they simply do not want to do business with the acquiring entity. If an HMO is unwilling for any reason to give its consent, this could deter us from completing the acquisition, or, if we complete an acquisition without obtaining an HMO's consent, we could lose the benefit of the enrollees and revenues associated with that HMO's contract. Our profitability could be adversely affected by any changes that would reduce payments to HMOs under government-sponsored health care programs. Although our affiliated physician organizations do not directly contract with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or "CMS" (a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services), during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, our affiliated physician organizations received approximately $78,512,000 and $49,771,000 or 38% and 34%, respectively, of capitation revenues from HMOs related to contracts with Medicare, Medi-Cal and other government-sponsored health care programs. Consequently, any change in the regulations, policies, practices, interpretations or statutes adversely affecting payments made to HMOs under these government-sponsored health care programs could reduce our profitability. A decline in enrollees in Medicare Advantage could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If any of our hospitals lose their accreditation, such hospitals could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medi-Cal. Our hospitals are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under appropriate state laws and regulations, certified under the Medicare program and accredited by The Joint Commission. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs. We believe that all of our health care facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. However, should any of our health care facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medi-Cal programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to effect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in order to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could harm our results of operations. 52 Table of Contents Our revenues and profits could be diminished if we lose the services of key physicians in our affiliated physician organizations. Substantially all of our affiliated physician organization revenues are derived from management agreements with our affiliated physician organizations. Key physicians in an affiliated physician organization could retire, become disabled, terminate their employment agreements or provider contracts, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue generating revenues at the current level, or practicing medicine within the physician organization. Enrollees who have been served by such physicians could choose to enroll with competitors' physician organizations, reducing our revenues and profits. Moreover, we may not be able to attract other physicians into our affiliated physician organizations to replace the services of such physicians. Physicians make hospital admitting decisions and decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. In many instances, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of the markets that we serve, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be harmed. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other health care providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. Hospitals are experiencing a severe ongoing shortage of nursing professionals, a trend which we expect to continue for some time. If the supply of qualified nurses declines in the markets in which our hospitals operate, it may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel, and may result in increased labor expenses and lower operating margins at those hospitals. California has regulatory requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels, the healthcare services that we provide in these markets may be reduced. In addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by union activity or the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm the results of our operations. If we were to lose the services of Sam Lee or other key members of management, we might not be able to replace them in a timely manner with qualified personnel, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability and revenue growth. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and on the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management staffs, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sam Lee, who is also Chief Executive Officer of Alta Hospitals System; our Chief Financial Officer, Mike Heather; our President of Alta Hospitals Subsidiary, David Topper; and Jeereddi Prasad, M.D., President of our ProMed Entities. In addition to these individuals, there are a number of other critical members of management whose loss 53 Table of Contents would very negatively impact our operations. If for any reason we were to lose the services of any key member of management, we would need to find and recruit a qualified replacement quickly to avoid disrupting our business and reducing our profitability and revenue growth. We compete with other companies for executive talent, and it may not be possible for us to recruit a qualified candidate on a timely basis, or at all. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of a significant portion of our local hospital management staffs could significantly weaken our management expertise and our ability to efficiently deliver health care services, which could harm our business. Because our business is currently limited to the Southern California area, any reduction in our revenues and profitability from a local economic downturn would not be offset by operations in other geographic areas. To date, we have developed our business within only one geographic area to take advantage of economies of scale. Due to this concentration of business in a single geographic area, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in Southern California. If economic conditions deteriorate in Southern California, our enrollment, patient volumes and revenues may decline, which could significantly reduce our profitability. We are required to upgrade and modify our management information systems to accommodate growth in our business and changes in technology and to satisfy new government regulations. As we seek to implement these changes, we may experience complications, delays and increasing costs, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have developed sophisticated management information systems that process and monitor patient case management and utilization of physician, hospital and ancillary services, claims receipt and claims payments, patient eligibility and other operational data required by management. These systems require ongoing modifications, improvements or replacements as we expand and as new technologies become available. We may also be required to modify our management information systems in order to comply with new government regulations. For example, regulations adopted under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 beginning in August 2000 have required us to begin complying with new electronic health care transactions and conduct standards, new uniform standards for data reporting, formatting and coding, and new standards for ensuring the privacy of individually identifiable health information. This required us to make significant changes to our management information systems, at substantial cost. Similar modifications, improvements and replacements may be required in the future at additional substantial cost and could disrupt our operations during periods of implementation. Moreover, implementation of such systems is subject to the availability of information technology and skilled personnel to assist us in creating and implementing the systems. The complications, delays and cost of implementing these changes could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. Our ability to control labor and employee benefit costs could be hindered by continued acquisition activity. As additional acquisitions are completed and our work force continues to grow, maintaining competitive salaries and employee benefits could prove to be cost prohibitive. The impact of inflation and the challenge of blending different benefit programs into our existing structure could lead to either a significant increase in compensation expense and reduced profitability, or a reduction in benefits with the potential outcomes of increased turnover and a reduced ability to attract quality employees. 54 Table of Contents We and our hospitals and affiliated physician organizations may become subject to claims of medical malpractice or HMO bad-faith liability claims for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. Such claims could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising from our operations. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. To mitigate a portion of this risk, we maintain professional malpractice liability and general liability insurance coverage for these potential claims in amounts above our self-insured retention level that we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. It is possible that successful claims against us that are within the self-insured retention level amounts, when considered in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. Furthermore, insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable self-insured retention level amounts. Also, one or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our hospitals may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms. Our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, general liability lawsuits and other legal actions. We believe, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed. Each of our affiliated physician organizations is involved in the delivery of health care services to the public and, therefore, is exposed to the risk of professional liability claims. The HMOs require our affiliated physician organizations to indemnify the HMOs for losses resulting from the negligence of physicians who were employed by or contracted with the physician organization. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Insurance against losses related to claims of this type can be expensive. Moreover, in recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the health care industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice, HMO bad-faith liability and related types of claims based on the withholding of approval for or reimbursement of necessary medical services. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. Although we do not engage in the practice of medicine or the provision of medical services, we may also become subject to legal claims alleging that we have committed medical malpractice or we may become a defendant in an HMO bad-faith liability claim. We carry a policy of managed care errors and omissions insurance, in amounts management deems appropriate, based upon historical claims and the nature and risk of our business. In addition, each of the independent physicians that contract with our affiliated physician organizations is required to maintain professional liability insurance coverage of the physician and of each employee, servant and agent of the physician. Nevertheless, there are exclusions and exceptions to coverage under each insurance policy that may make coverage for any claim unavailable, future claims could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, existing insurers could become insolvent and fail to meet their obligations to provide coverage for such claims, and such coverage may not always be available or available with sufficient limits and at reasonable cost to adequately and economically insure us and our affiliated physician organizations' operations in the future. A malpractice or an errors and omissions judgment against us or any of our affiliated physician organizations could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. 55 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may make it difficult to predict our future results of operations, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate for a number of reasons. Our annual and interim financial statements contain accruals that are calculated quarterly for estimates of incentive payments to be made by the HMOs to our affiliated physician organizations based upon hospital utilization or other factors. Quarterly results have in the past, and will in the future, be affected by adjustments to such estimates. We are subject to quarterly variations in our medical expenses due to fluctuations in patient utilization, legislative and regulatory developments, general economic conditions, CMS risk adjustment calculations, and the capitated nature of our revenues. Our financial statements also include estimates of costs for covered medical benefits incurred by enrollees, which costs have not yet been reported by the providers (incurred but not reported claims). While these estimates are based on information available to us at the time of calculation, actual costs may differ from our estimates of such amounts. If the actual costs differ significantly from the amounts we have estimated, adjustments will be required and quarterly results may be affected. Quarterly results may also be affected by movements of HMO members from one HMO to another, particularly during periods of open enrollment for HMOs. Additionally, the completion of acquisitions causes fluctuations in our quarterly results, as results of the acquired entities are consolidated with our results for periods following the acquisitions. These factors can make our quarterly results not directly comparable to the results in corresponding quarters of other years, making it difficult to predict our future results of operations. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which could decrease the value of our common stock. If we are not able to develop or sustain an active trading market for our common stock, it may be difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock. Our common stock has never experienced significant trading volume. Limited and sporadic trading occurred on the OTC Bulletin Board from 1996 to 1999. Trading of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange (now NYSE Alternext US) began on May 11, 2005. It is uncertain whether we will be able to continue to meet the requirements for listing on the NYSE Alternext US, or an alternative exchange or market, or that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. If we do not maintain our NYSE Alternext US listing or listing on another exchange or market and an active market in our common stock does not develop, it will be more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock and could diminish significantly the market value of our common stock. Even if an active market develops for our common stock, the market price of our stock is likely to be volatile. Historically, the market prices for shares of health care companies, and smaller capitalization companies generally, have tended to be volatile. It is likely that the market price for our common shares will also be volatile. The price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including announcements of legislation or regulation affecting the health care industry in general and reimbursement for health care services in particular, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception and fluctuations in our operating results and market conditions. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC's penny stock rules, our stockholders may find it difficult to sell their stock. If we do not maintain the NYSE Alternext US listing for our common stock or a listing of our common stock on another national securities exchange, and if the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock will become subject to the SEC's penny stock rules. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, the penny stock rules require the firm to first approve the customer for the transaction and receive from the customer a written agreement to the transaction. 56 Table of Contents The firm must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must tell the customer the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the firm must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. These disclosure requirements tend to make it more difficult for a broker-dealer to make a market in penny stocks, and could, therefore, reduce the level of trading activity in a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. Consequently, if our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules, our stockholders may find it difficult to sell their shares. Changes in the fair market value of our interest rate swap arrangements are included in earnings. These amounts are unpredictable and likely to be significant. Our derivative instruments are comprised of two interest rate swap agreements which were entered into on May 16, 2007 in conjunction with the ProMed Acquisition and on September 5, 2007 in conjunction with the Alta Acquisition. The interest rate swap instruments were designated as cash flow hedges of expected interest payments on the term loans with the effective date of the May 2007 instrument being December 31, 2007 and the effective date of the September 2007 instrument being September 6, 2007. Prior to the hedge effective dates, all mark-to-market adjustments in the value of the swaps were charged to other expense. After the hedge effective date, the effective portions of the fair value gains or losses on these cash flow hedges were initially recorded as a component of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. Effective April 1, 2008, we elected to discontinue hedge accounting. As such, changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps after March 31, 2008 are included in earnings. These amounts are unpredictable and likely to be significant. Total net gain on the interest rate swaps included in earnings for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 approximately $3,096,000, as compared to net loss of approximately $868,000 for the year ended September 30, 2007. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include: •any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles; •a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting; •failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal polices, including data security; •failure to protect our proprietary information; and •failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 57 Table of Contents 