Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Decreases in the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks reduce our profitability and inhibit future growth. During recent periods, the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks has declined (not taking into account our recent acquisitions of additional affiliated physician organizations), and management currently anticipates that this trend will continue. The profitability and growth of our business depends largely on the number of HMO members who use our provider networks. We seek to maintain and increase the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks by monitoring enrollment of the HMOs with which our affiliated physician organizations have contracts, affiliating with additional IPAs and acquiring other management companies. If we are not successful, we may not be able to maintain our profitability or to continue to grow our business in the future. For the years ended September 30, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and 2005, the decrease in the number of HMO enrollees using our provider networks was 21,400, 3,600, 1,400, 20,700, and, 26,500 respectively. Estimated revenue reductions associated with the enrollment decreases for those periods were approximately, $5,500,000, $3,500,000, $400,000, $8,200,000 and $11,100,000, respectively. These estimates assume that enrollment decreased ratably during the indicated periods and, as such, represent approximately 50% of the lost revenue that will be experienced in subsequent periods, when the enrollment decline is in effect for the whole period. Our working capital deficit could adversely affect our ability to satisfy our obligations as they come due. We have historically been in a negative working capital position. Having a working capital deficit may signal an impaired ability to pay debts as they come due. We had negative working capital of $16,695,740, $3,141,414, and $681,960 as of September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. This represents the difference between our current assets and our current liabilities. The negative working capital is the result of a reduction in cash and cash equivalents that have been used to reduce our bank debt and current liabilities incurred in operations and acquisitions, primarily related to medical expense claims. As of the fiscal years ended 2003, 2004, and 2005, our indebtedness for capital leases, subordinated seller notes, loans from our Chief Executive Officer, and notes to our bank totaled $6,267,710, $15,008,554 and $8,166,667. We have historically used cash reserves and cash flow from operations and equity offerings to reduce our indebtedness and fund acquisitions. This, and our recording of reserves for incurred but not reported healthcare expense claims, have been the primary reasons for our negative working capital position at September 30, 2003, 2004, and 2005. If the value of our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives becomes impaired, the impaired portion will have to be written off, which could materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. Our intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. As of September 30, 2005, goodwill totaled $31,404,328 and other intangible assets totaled $1,317,614 for a combined total of $32,721,942, and represented approximately 57% of our total assets. In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued two standards related to business combinations. The first statement, SFAS No. 141, “Business Combinations,” requires all business combinations after June 30, 2001 to be accounted for using the purchase method and prohibits the pooling-of-interest method of accounting. SFAS No. 141 also states that acquired intangible assets should be separately recognized upon meeting certain criteria. Such intangible assets include, but are not limited to, trade and service marks, non-compete agreements, customer lists and licenses. 38 The second statement, SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” requires that upon adoption, amortization of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets will cease and instead, the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets will be evaluated for impairment at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators are encountered. We have adopted SFAS No. 142. A two-step impairment test is to be used to identify potential goodwill impairment and to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any). The first step of the goodwill impairment test, which is used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired, thus the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. Any finding that the value of our goodwill and intangible assets has been impaired would require us to write off the impaired portion, which could significantly reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. To date, since we adopted SFAS No. 142 for our fiscal year ended September 30, 2002, no impairment has been found and no write-off has been required. We may not be able to make any additional significant acquisitions without first obtaining additional financing and obtaining the consent of our commercial lender. Although we have no specific agreements for additional acquisitions of affiliated physician organizations pending, the implementation of our long-term growth strategy depends on additional acquisitions in the future. These future acquisitions may require additional capital resources. No assurance can be given that needed capital will be made available to us. To finance our ongoing capital requirements, we may, from time to time, issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt. A greater amount of debt or additional equity financing could be required to the extent that our common stock fails to achieve or to maintain a market value sufficient to warrant its use in future acquisitions or to the extent that physician organizations or their related management companies are unwilling to accept common stock in exchange for their businesses. Our ability to issue debt instruments or equity securities in a public or private sale is restricted by the loan agreement with our commercial lender, Residential Funding Corporation. The loan agreement restricts us from using any loan proceeds for acquisitions and prohibits us from borrowing outside of the loan agreement, for acquisitions or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the lender. The loan agreement also prohibits us from using the proceeds of any sale of equity securities except to pay down indebtedness under the loan agreement. Thus, we must obtain the written consent of our lender before we use any loan proceeds for acquisitions and before we issue any debt or equity securities to raise financing for acquisitions. Our lender may grant or withhold such consent in the lender’s sole discretion. If our commercial lender is unwilling to consent to our use of loan proceeds or our issuance of debt or equity securities to finance acquisitions, we may have to abort any growth plan that depends on the use of funds from such debt or equity securities. Even if we obtain required consents from our lender, we may not be able to obtain additional required capital on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional capital is not available, we may be required to limit our plans for growth. In addition, any capital we may be able to raise could result in increased leverage on our balance sheet, additional interest and financing expense, decreased operating income to fund future expansion, and/or dilution of existing equity owners. If we are not able to comply with the financial covenants and other conditions required by our loan agreement with our commercial lender, our lender could require full repayment of the loan, which would negatively impact our liquidity and preclude us from making further acquisitions. We are subject to certain financial covenants and other conditions required by our loan agreement with Residential Funding Corporation (“RFC”), including a maximum senior debt/EBITDA ratio, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, minimum consolidated net worth, minimum liquidity and a limit on 39 capital expenditures. We exceeded the 1.50 maximum senior debt/EBITDA ratio as of September 30, 2004 and December 31, 2004. Our actual senior debt/EBITDA ratio as of those two dates was 1.57 and 1.51, respectively. RFC has waived these covenant violations effective April 7, 2005. RFC has, in addition, agreed to exclude certain items from the covenant computations for a twelve month period. The exclusion of certain items enabled us to meet the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio at December 31, 2004. The company was in compliance with all of its loan covenants as of September 30, 2005. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to meet all of the financial covenants and other conditions required by our loan agreement. RFC may not grant waivers of future covenant violations and could also require full repayment of the loan, which would negatively impact our liquidity and preclude us from making further acquisitions. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from contracts with a limited number of HMOs, and if our affiliated physician organizations were to lose HMO contracts or to renew HMO contracts on less favorable terms, our revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced. After a recent consolidation of HMOs, there are now only four large and five smaller HMOs doing business in California, which magnifies the risk of loss of any HMO contract by our affiliated physician organizations. The potential for risk is also magnified because HMO contracts generally have only a one year term, may be terminated earlier without cause upon notice, and, upon renewal, are subject to annual negotiation of capitation rates, covered benefits and other terms and conditions. We are particularly at risk with respect to the potential loss or renewal on less favorable terms of contracts that our affiliated physician organizations have with four of these HMOs—PacifiCare of California, Blue Cross of California, Health Net of California and Blue Shield of California. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, contracts with our four largest HMO clients accounted for approximately 75% of our enrollment, of which our contract with PacifiCare of California accounted for approximately 22% of our enrollment, our contract with Health Net of California accounted for approximately 18% of our enrollment, our contract with Blue Cross of California accounted for approximately 19% of our enrollment, and our contract with Blue Shield of California accounted for approximately 16% of our enrollment. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, our contract with PacifiCare of California accounted for $40,155,679 in revenue, or 31% of our total capitation revenue, our contract with Health Net of California accounted for $25,224,324 in revenue, or 20% of our total capitation revenue, our contract with Blue Cross accounted for $21,365,598 in revenue, or 17% of our total capitation revenue and our contract with Blue Shield of California accounted for $14,802,756 in revenue, or 12% of our total capitation revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2005, PacifiCare, Blue Cross, Health Net and Blue Shield accounted for combined revenue of $101,548,357, or approximately 80% of our total capitation revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, contracts with our four largest HMO clients accounted for approximately 81% of our enrollment, of which our contract with PacifiCare of California accounted for approximately 25% of our enrollment, our contract with Health Net of California accounted for approximately 21% of our enrollment, our contract with Blue Cross of California accounted for 22% of our enrollment, and our contract with Blue Shield of California accounted for approximately 13% of our enrollment. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, our contract with PacifiCare of California accounted for $40,903,464 in revenue, or 32% of our total capitation revenue, our contract with Health Net of California accounted for $25,933,742 in revenue, or 21% of our total capitation revenue, our contract with Blue Cross accounted for $19,899,135 in revenue, or 16% of our total capitation revenue and our contract with Blue Shield of California accounted for $13,467,152 in revenue, or 11% of our total capitation revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, PacifiCare, Blue Cross, Health Net and Blue Shield accounted for combined revenue of $100,203,493, or 80% of our total capitation revenue. 40 The loss of contracts with any one of these HMOs could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We have one year automatically renewable contracts with PacifiCare of California, Blue Cross of California, Health Net of California and Blue Shield of California, unless either party provides the other party with 180-days’ notice of such party’s intent not to renew. Under limited circumstances, the HMOs may immediately terminate the contracts for cause; otherwise, termination for cause requires 90 days’ prior written notice with an opportunity to cure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these contracts or, if renewed, that they will contain terms favorable to us and our affiliated physician organizations. Our profitability may be reduced or eliminated if we are not able to manage health care costs of our affiliated physician organizations effectively. Our success depends in large part on our effective management of health care costs, through control over our affiliated physician organizations through the single shareholder ownership model, controlling utilization of specialty care and other ancillary care and purchasing services at competitive prices. Under the single shareholder model, we have the right, under an assignable option agreement, to designate the sole owner of all of the stock of Prospect Medical Group, which is one of our affiliated physician organizations and also serves as a holding company for all of our other affiliated physician organizations. Our ability to designate the sole owner of Prospect Medical Group gives us the ability to control the management and business policies of our affiliated physician organizations (except for one in which we have only a 50% joint venture ownership interest), including policies for the management of health care costs. We attempt to control the health care costs of our affiliated physician organizations’ HMO enrollees by emphasizing preventive care, monitoring compliance with pharmacy formularies (i.e., a list of approved pharmaceutical drugs that the HMOs will provide an enrollee at a lesser cost than other drugs), entering into risk sharing agreements with hospitals that have favorable rate structures, and requiring prior authorization for specialist physician referrals. If we cannot continue to improve our management of health care costs, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to satisfy our obligations could be adversely affected. Under all current HMO contracts, our affiliated physician organizations accept the financial risk for the provision of primary care and specialty physician services, and some ancillary health care services. If we are unable to negotiate favorable prices or rates in contracts with providers of these services on behalf of our affiliated physician organizations, or if our affiliated physician organizations are unable to effectively control the utilization of these services, our profitability could be reduced or eliminated. Our ability to manage health care costs is also diminished to the extent that we are unable to sub-capitate the specialists in our service areas at competitive rates. To the extent that our HMO enrollees require more frequent or extensive care, our operating margins may be reduced and the revenues derived from our capitation contracts may be insufficient to cover the costs of the services provided. If our medical costs substantially exceed our revenues we may be required to infuse additional capital to maintain our provider network and HMO contracts, and there are no assurances that we will achieve profitability after the infusion of capital. Our operating results could be adversely affected if our actual health care claims exceed our reserves. Historically, we have not had adequate cash resources to retire one hundred percent (100%) of our incurred but not reported (i.e., accrued or “IBNR”) medical claims. As of September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005 we could retire approximately 60%, 156%, and 147%, respectively, of our accrued medical claims and other health care costs payable using all of our cash and cash equivalents. This percentage will fluctuate as of the particular cut-off dates depending on the IBNR calculations as of each date, the timing of the actual 41 disbursement of claims checks near those dates, the status of specifically reserved items as of those dates, the level of borrowings made as of the given dates and whether there have been any recent acquisitions, and the amount of cash included as part of those acquisitions. Historically, we have been able to satisfy our claims payment obligations each month out of cash flows from operations and existing cash reserves. However, due to the historical inadequacy of our aggregate cash reserves, in the event that our revenues are substantially reduced due to a loss of a significant HMO contract or other factors, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay off claims on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unable to pay claims timely we may be subject to HMO de-delegation wherein the HMO would take away our claims processing functions and perform the functions on our behalf, charging our affiliated physicians a fee per enrollee, a requirement by the HMO to comply with a corrective action plan, and/or a termination of the HMO contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. We estimate the amount of our reserves for submitted claims and IBNR claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis, are continually reviewed and are adjusted in current operations as required. As of September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we estimated our IBNR at $10,557,426, $13,323,622 and $11,532,328 respectively. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the reserves could materially understate or overstate our actual liability for claims payable. Any increases to these prior estimates could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. We may be exposed to liability or fail to estimate IBNR claims accurately if we cannot process our increased volume of claims accurately and timely. We have regulatory risk for the timely processing and payment of claims. If we are unable to handle increased claims volume, or if we are unable to pay claims timely we may become subject to an HMO corrective action plan or de-delegation (which means that an HMO takes away the claims processing function of the affiliated physician organization and performs that work itself, charging the affiliated physician organization a fee per HMO enrollee per month during which the service is handled by the HMO) until the problem is corrected, and/or termination of the HMO agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, if our claims processing system is unable to process claims accurately, the data we use for our IBNR estimates could be incomplete and our ability to estimate claims liabilities and establish adequate reserves could be adversely affected. Medicare and private third-party payer cost containment efforts and reductions in reimbursement rates could reduce our revenue and our cash flow. The health care industry is experiencing a continuing trend toward cost containment as government and private third-party payers seek to impose lower reimbursement and utilization rates and to negotiate reduced payment schedules with health care providers. Changes in Medicare payment rates have reduced fee-for-service payments to physicians. These trends may result in a reduction from historical levels in per patient revenue received by our affiliated physician organizations. Risk-sharing arrangements that our affiliated physician organizations have with HMOs and hospitals could result in their costs exceeding the corresponding revenues, which could reduce or eliminate any shared risk profitability. Most of our affiliated physician organizations’ agreements with HMOs and hospitals contain risk-sharing arrangements under which the affiliated physician organizations can earn additional compensation by coordinating the provision of high quality, cost-effective health care to enrollees, but they may also be required to assume a portion of any loss sustained from these arrangements, thereby reducing 42 our net income. Risk-sharing arrangements are based upon the cost of hospital services or other services for which our physician organizations are not capitated. The terms of the particular risk-sharing arrangement allocate responsibility to the respective parties when the cost of services exceeds a budget, which results in a “deficit,” and permit the parties to share in any amounts remaining in the budget, known as a “surplus,” which occurs when actual cost is less than the budgeted amount. The amount of non-capitated and hospital costs in any period could be affected by factors beyond our control, such as changes in treatment protocols, new technologies and inflation. To the extent that such non-capitated and hospital costs are higher than anticipated, revenue paid to our affiliated physician organizations may not be sufficient to cover the risk-sharing deficits they are responsible for, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. It is our experience that “deficit” amounts for hospital costs are applied to offset any future “surplus” amount we would otherwise be entitled to receive. We have historically not been required to reimburse the HMOs for any hospital cost deficit amount. Most of our contracts with HMOs specifically provide that we will not have to reimburse the HMO for hospital cost deficit amounts. HMOs often insist on withholding negotiated amounts from the affiliated physician organizations’ professional capitation payments, which the HMOs are permitted to retain, in order to cover the affiliated physician organizations’ share of any risk-sharing deficits; and hospitals often demand cash settlements of risk sharing deficits as a “quid pro quo” for joining in these arrangements. Net risk-pool surpluses (deficits) were $(285,154), $(21,610), and $1,151,373 for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. In addition to hospital risk-sharing arrangements, many HMOs also provide a risk-sharing arrangement for pharmaceutical costs. Unlike hospital pools where nearly all of the HMO contracts mandate participation by our affiliated physician organizations in the risk sharing for hospital costs, a lesser number of the HMO contracts mandate participation in a pharmacy risk-sharing arrangement, and although (unlike hospital pools) our affiliated physician organizations are generally responsible for their 50% allocation of pharmacy cost deficits, the deficit amounts of pharmacy costs have to date not had a material effect on our revenue. To date, we have not suffered any losses due to hospital risk arrangements other than offsets (for deficit amounts) against any future surpluses we otherwise would have received. To date our aggregate losses in connection with our pharmacy risk sharing arrangements have been insignificant. Whenever possible, we seek to contractually reduce or eliminate our affiliated physician organizations’ liability for risk-sharing deficits and with respect to pharmacy pools, eliminate their participation in such pools. Notwithstanding the foregoing, risk-sharing deficits could have a significant impact on our future profitability. If we do not successfully integrate the operations of acquired physician organizations into our service network, our costs could increase, our business could be disrupted, and we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits from those acquisitions. Our strategy for growth is primarily to acquire additional IPAs that specialize in managed care and to realize economies of scale from those acquisitions. However, even if we are successful in acquiring a new physician organization, we may not be successful in integrating its operations into our operating systems. It may be difficult and time consuming to integrate the acquired organization’s management services, including information systems, claims administration, and case management, as well as administrative functions, and, while at the same time managing a larger entity with a differing history, business model and culture. Management may be required to develop working relationships with providers with whom they have had no previous business experience. Management also may not be able to obtain economies of scale from utilizing existing specialists for enrollees in our same service networks. Integration of acquired entities is vital for us to be able to operate effectively and to control medical and administrative costs. If we are not successful in integrating acquired operations on a timely basis, or at all, our business could be 43 disrupted and we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, including cost savings. There may be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisition and integration activities, any of which could result in significant one-time charges to earnings or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. When we acquire operations that have historically operated at a loss, we may not be able to reverse those losses and operate those businesses at a profit, which could reduce our earnings. From time to time, Prospect Medical Group may acquire the assets of a physician organization that has historically operated at a loss, such as the acquisition of the assets of Health Source Medical Group. We have instituted measures intended to reduce any operating losses and to operate acquired businesses profitably, such as we have done with the acquisition of the assets of Health Source Medical Group. We attempt to reduce operating losses of such acquired businesses by negotiating better capitation rates from the HMOs, negotiating better pricing with the specialist physicians by trading patient volume in exchange for a sub-capitation payment or discounted pricing, and consolidating administrative and back-office functions. Although we were successful in the turn-around of Health Source by employing these strategies, no assurance can be given that we can repeat our performance in the event we acquire another physician organization that has historically operated at a loss. In the event we are not able to reverse those trends and operate the assets profitably, our net earnings could be reduced. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to negotiate or complete acquisitions on favorable terms, our prospects for growth could be limited. Although we are regularly in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, it may be difficult to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate satisfactory terms with them. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices our ability to grow could be limited. Any acquisitions we complete in the future could potentially dilute the equity interests of our current stockholders or could increase our indebtedness and cost of debt service, thereby reducing our net income and profitability. If we issue common stock or other equity securities as consideration for future acquisitions, the issuance of equity could have a dilutive effect on the earnings and market price of our common stock. If we borrow to finance future acquisitions, our indebtedness and cost of debt service could increase, which would reduce our net income and profitability. We operate in a competitive market; increased competition could adversely affect our revenues. The managed care industry is highly competitive and is subject to continuing changes in the ways in which services are provided and providers are selected and paid. We are subject to significant competition both with respect to physicians affiliating with our affiliated physician organizations, and in seeking contracts to manage other IPAs. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and other resources and experience than we do and, as a result, may compete more effectively than we can. Companies in other health care industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than we do, may become competitors in providing similar services. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively in this industry. Additional competitors may enter our markets and this increased competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 44 Failure to comply with federal and state regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in business operations. We and our affiliated physician organizations are subject to numerous federal and state statutes and regulations that are applicable to health care organizations and businesses generally, including the corporate practice of medicine prohibition, federal and state anti-kickback laws and federal and state laws regarding the use and disclosure of patient health information. If our business operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and increased legal expenses, we may be required to make costly changes to our business operations, and we may be excluded from government reimbursement programs. The laws and regulations that we and our affiliated physician organizations are subject to are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Any action against us or our affiliated physician organizations for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defended against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of our business. All of these consequences could have the effect of reducing our revenues, increasing our costs, decreasing our net income, profitability and curtailing our growth. For a more detailed discussion of the various federal and state regulations to which we are subject, see Item 1, “Business—Regulation.” Future reforms in health care legislation and regulation could reduce our revenues and profitability. Although we cannot predict what future reforms may be proposed or adopted with respect to health care legislation and regulation, proposals that have been considered include changes in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs, a prescription drug benefit for Medicare, cost controls on hospitals and mandatory health insurance coverage for employees. The costs of implementing some of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reduction of payments to health care providers under Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs. Future legislation, regulations, interpretations, or other changes to the health care system could reduce our revenues and profitability. The California Department of Managed Health Care (“DMHC”) has instituted financial solvency regulations mandated by California Senate Bill 260. The regulations are intended to provide a formal mechanism for monitoring the financial solvency of capitated physician groups. Management believes that our affiliated physician organizations that are subject to these regulations will be able to comply with them. However, these regulations could limit the company’s ability to use its cash resources to make future acquisitions. Under the regulations, our affiliated physician organizations are required to comply with specific criteria, including: · Maintain, at all times, a minimum “cash-to-claims ratio” (where “cash-to-claims ratio” means the organization’s cash, marketable securities and certain qualified receivables, divided by the organization’s total unpaid claims liability. The regulations require a cash-to-claims ratio of 0.60 beginning January 1, 2006; 0.65 beginning July 1, 2006; and 0.75 beginning January 1, 2007. · Submit periodic reports to the DMHC containing various data and attestations regarding performance and financial solvency, including IBNR (incurred but not reported) calculations and documentation, and attestations as to whether or not the organization was in compliance with Knox-Keene Act requirements related to claims payment timeliness, had maintained positive tangible net equity; and had maintained positive working capital. In a case where an organization is not in compliance with any of the above criteria, the organization would be required to describe in the report submitted to the DMHC the reasons for non-compliance and actions to be taken to bring the organization into compliance. 45 Further, under these regulations, the DMHC will make public some of the information contained in the reports, including, but not limited to, whether or not a particular physician organization met each of the criteria. In the event we are not able to meet certain of the financial solvency requirements, and fail to meet subsequent corrective action plans, we could be subject to sanction, or limitations on, or removal of, our ability to do business in California. Our cash-to-claims ratio at September 30, 2005, was 1.58. Whenever we seek to acquire an IPA, an HMO that has a contract with that IPA could potentially refuse to consent to the transfer of its contract, and this could deter us from completing the acquisition or could deprive us of the enrollees and revenues associated with that HMO contract if we chose to complete the acquisition without the HMO’s consent. IPA contracts with HMOs typically include provisions requiring the physician group to obtain the HMO’s consent to the transfer of their contract with the IPA before effecting any change in control of the IPA. As a result, whenever we seek to acquire an IPA, the acquisition may be conditioned upon the IPA’s ability to obtain such consent from the HMOs with which it has contracted. Therefore, an acquisition could be delayed while an HMO seeks to determine whether it will consent to the transfer of the IPA. While in our experience the HMOs limit their review to satisfying their regulatory responsibility to ensure that, following the acquisition, the IPA post-acquisition will meet certain financial and operational thresholds, the language in many of the HMO agreements give the HMO the ability to decline to give their consent if they simply do not want to do business with the acquiring entity. If an HMO is unwilling for any reason to give its consent, this could deter us from completing the acquisition, or, if we complete an acquisition without obtaining an HMO’s consent, we could lose the benefit of the enrollees and revenues associated with that HMO’s contract. Our profitability could be adversely affected by any changes that would reduce payments to HMOs under government-sponsored health care programs. Although our affiliated physician organizations do not directly contract with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (a federal agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services), during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2003 our affiliated physician organizations received $18,410,213 in revenues, or approximately 29% of capitation revenues, derived from payments made to the affiliated physician organizations from HMOs that contract with Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs. Consequently, any change in the regulations, policies, practices, interpretations or statutes adversely affecting payments made to HMOs under these government-sponsored health care programs could reduce our profitability. A continuing decline in enrollees in Medicare Advantage could also have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For the year ended September 30, 2004, our affiliated physician organizations received $43,490,025 in revenues from HMOs that contract with Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs, which represents approximately 35% of capitation revenues. For the year ended September 30, 2005, our affiliated physician organizations received $46,791,854 in revenues from HMOs that contract with Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored health care programs, which represents approximately 37% of capitation revenues Our revenues and profits could be diminished if we lose the services of key physicians in our affiliated physician organizations. Substantially all of our revenues are derived from management agreements with our affiliated physician organizations. Key physicians in an affiliated physician organization could retire, become 46 disabled, terminate their employment agreements or provider contracts, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue generating revenues at the current level, or practicing medicine within the physician organization. Enrollees who have been served by such physicians could choose to enroll with competitors physician organizations, reducing our revenues and profits. Moreover, we may not be able to attract other physicians into our affiliated physician organizations to replace the services of such physicians. Because our business is currently limited to the Southern California area, any reduction in our revenues and profitability from a local economic downturn would not be offset by operations in other geographic areas. To date, we have developed our business within only one geographic area to take advantage of economies of scale and the mature managed care market of Southern California. Due to this concentration of business in a single geographic area, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in Southern California. If economic conditions deteriorate in Southern California, our enrollment and our revenues may decline, which could significantly reduce our profitability. We are required to upgrade and modify our management information systems to accommodate growth in our business and changes in technology and to satisfy new government regulations. As we seek to implement these changes, we may experience complications, delays and increasing costs, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have developed sophisticated management information systems that process and monitor patient case management and utilization of physician, hospital and ancillary services, claims receipt and claims payments, patient eligibility and other operational data required by management. These systems may require modifications, improvements or replacements as we expand and as new technologies become available. We may also be required to modify our management information systems in order to comply with new government regulations. For example, regulations adopted under the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 beginning in August 2000 have required us to begin complying with new electronic health care transactions and conduct standards, new uniform standards for data reporting, formatting and coding, and new standards for ensuring the privacy of individually identifiable health information. This required us to make significant changes to our management information systems, at substantial cost. Similar modifications, improvements and replacements may be required in the future at additional substantial cost and could disrupt our operations during periods of implementation. Moreover, implementation of such systems is subject to the availability of information technology and skilled personnel to assist us in creating and implementing the systems. The complications, delays and cost of implementing these changes could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. During the years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005, we estimate that the costs incurred by us to upgrade and modify our management information system exclusive of any employee expense have totaled approximately $230,000, $540,000 and $230,000. These amounts do not include any of the costs associated with running our company’s information systems department, which currently approximate $2 million annually. If we were to lose the services of Dr. Terner or other key members of management, we might not be able to replace them in a timely manner with qualified personnel, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability and revenue growth. The success of our business depends, in part, on the continued contributions of key members of our management, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jacob Y. Terner, M.D., our President and Chief Operating Officer, Catherine Dickson and our Chief Financial Officer, Mike Heather. If for any reason we were to lose the services of any key member of management, we would need to find and recruit a qualified replacement quickly to avoid disrupting our business and reducing our profitability and revenue growth. We compete with other companies for executive talent, and it may not be possible for us to recruit a qualified candidate on a timely basis, or at all. Currently, we do not maintain any life insurance on our 47 key management personnel, and the only members of our management team that have employment agreements at this time are Dr. Terner and Mr. Heather. Although we have not entered into an employment agreement with Ms. Dickson, our Board of Directors has approved the payment to her of six months’ salary as a severance package in the event we terminate her employment. On June 30, 1997, Dr. Terner consented, without admitting or denying any of the allegations in a complaint relating to an insider trading investigation by the SEC, except as specifically set forth therein, to the entry of a final judgment of permanent injunction and other relief. The SEC’s investigation involved the trading of Century MediCorp stock in June and July 1992 by persons other than Dr. Terner prior to the public announcement of Century MediCorp’s merger with Foundation Health, a California Health Plan. The judgment permanently restrained and enjoined Dr. Terner from employing any fraudulent device, scheme or artifice, making material misstatements or omitting material statements of fact or engaging in fraudulent or deceitful acts, practices or courses of business in violation of Section 10(b) of the 1934 Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. No allegations were made that Dr. Terner had personally engaged in the trading of Century MediCorp stock, or that Dr. Terner personally profited from any such alleged trading. Dr. Terner was further ordered to pay a civil penalty in the amount of $225,750 under the Insider Trading and Securities Fraud Enforcement Act of 1988. We and our affiliated physician organizations may become subject to claims of medical malpractice or HMO bad-faith liability claims for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. Such claims could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Each of our affiliated physician organizations is involved in the delivery of health care services to the public and, therefore, is exposed to the risk of professional liability claims. The HMOs require our affiliated physician organizations to indemnify the HMOs for losses resulting from the negligence of physicians who were employed by or contracted with the physician organization. Claims of this nature, if successful, could result in substantial damage awards to the claimants, which may exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Insurance against losses related to claims of this type can be expensive. Moreover, in recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the health care industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice, HMO bad-faith liability and related types of claims based on the withholding of approval for or reimbursement of necessary medical services. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. Although we do not engage in the practice of medicine or the provision of medical services, we may also become subject to legal claims alleging that we have committed medical malpractice or we may become a defendant in an HMO bad-faith liability claim. Our employed physicians at Sierra Medical Group and Pegasus Medical Group are currently insured under policies that cover malpractice on a “claims made” basis, which includes vicarious coverage for each entity. We also carry a policy of managed care errors and omissions insurance, in amounts management deems appropriate, based upon historical claims and the nature and risk of our business. In addition, each of the independent physicians that contract with our affiliated physician organizations is required to maintain professional liability insurance coverage of the physician and of each employee, servant and agent of the physician. Nevertheless, there are exclusions and exceptions to coverage under each insurance policy that may make coverage for any claim unavailable, future claims could exceed the limits of available insurance coverage, existing insurers could become insolvent and fail to meet their obligations to provide coverage for such claims, and such coverage may not always be available or available with sufficient limits and at reasonable cost to adequately and economically insure us and our affiliated physician organizations’ operations in the future. A malpractice or an errors and omissions judgment against us or any of our affiliated physician organizations could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. 48 Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may make it difficult to predict our future results of operations, which could decrease the market value of our common stock. Our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results of operations for any future period or full year. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate for a number of reasons. Our annual and interim financial statements contain accruals that are calculated quarterly for estimates of incentive payments to be made by the HMOs to our affiliated physician organizations based upon hospital utilization to budgeted costs. Quarterly results have in the past, and may in the future, be affected by adjustments to such estimates for actual costs incurred. We are subject to quarterly variations in our medical expenses due to fluctuations in patient utilization, legislative and regulatory developments, general economic conditions, and the capitated nature of our revenues. Historically, the affiliated physician organizations and HMOs generally reconcile differences between actual and estimated amounts relating to HMO incentive payment arrangements by the third quarter of each calendar year. In the event that the affiliated physician organizations and HMOs are unable to reconcile such differences, extensive negotiation, arbitration or litigation relating to the final settlement of these amounts may occur. Any delay in the settlement of these amounts may result in our being unable to record anticipated income. As our network expands to include additional IPAs, the timing of these reconciliations may vary; this variation in timing may cause our results not to be directly comparable to corresponding quarters in other years. Our financial statements also include estimates of costs for covered medical benefits incurred by enrollees, which costs have not yet been reported by the providers (incurred but not reported claims). While these estimates are based on information available to us at the time of calculation, actual costs may differ from our estimates of such amounts. If the actual costs differ significantly from the amounts we have estimated, adjustments will be required and quarterly results may be affected. Quarterly results may also be affected by movements of HMO members from one HMO to another, particularly during periods of open enrollment for HMOs, which occur primarily in September, October and January of each year. Additionally, the completion of acquisitions causes fluctuations in our quarterly results, as results of the acquired entities are consolidated with our results for periods following the acquisitions. These factors can make our quarterly results not be directly comparable to the results in corresponding quarters of other years, making it difficult to predict our future results of operations. As a result, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period, which could decrease the value of our common stock. The NASD has conducted an informal inquiry regarding trading in our common stock. On February 3, 2004, we received a notice of inquiry from the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., concerning trading in our common stock that took place around the time that we announced the first closing of a private placement of our Series A Preferred Stock. We responded to an NASD request for documents on February 12, 2004 and have received no further contacts from the NASD since that date. However, it is possible that the NASD could continue its inquiry or open a formal investigation the NASD, or other government agencies, could initiate enforcement proceedings if the NASD concluded that improprieties occurred in connection with the trading. If we are not able to develop or sustain an active trading market for our common stock, it may be difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock. Our common stock was the subject of limited and sporadic trading on the OTC Bulletin Board from 1996 to 1999. No liquid trading market has existed for our common stock since 1999. Trading of our common stock on the American Stock Exchange began on May 11, 2005. It is uncertain whether we will be able to continue to meet the requirements for listing on the American Stock Exchange, or an alternative exchange or market, or that an active trading market for our common stock will develop. If we do not maintain our American Stock Exchange listing or listing on another exchange or market and an active 49 market in our common stock does not develop, it may be more difficult for stockholders to dispose of their common stock and could diminish significantly the market value of our common stock. Even if an active market develops for our common stock, the market price of our stock is likely to be volatile. Historically, the market prices for shares of health care companies, and smaller capitalization companies generally, have tended to be volatile. It is likely that the market price for our common shares will also be volatile. The price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including announcements of legislation or regulation affecting the health care industry in general and reimbursement for health care services in particular, the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock, investor perception and fluctuations in our operating results and market conditions. If our common stock becomes subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, our stockholders may find it difficult to sell their stock. If we do not maintain the American Stock Exchange listing for our common stock or a listing of our common stock on another national securities exchange or on NASDAQ, and if the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock will become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules. Before a broker-dealer can sell a penny stock, the penny stock rules require the firm to first approve the customer for the transaction and receive from the customer a written agreement to the transaction. The firm must furnish the customer a document describing the risks of investing in penny stocks. The broker-dealer must tell the customer the current market quotation, if any, for the penny stock and the compensation the firm and its broker will receive for the trade. Finally, the firm must send monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. These disclosure requirements tend to make it more difficult for a broker-dealer to make a market in penny stocks, and could, therefore, reduce the level of trading activity in a stock that is subject to the penny stock rules. Consequently, if our common stock becomes subject to the penny stock rules, our stockholders may find it difficult to sell their shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 50 