Item 1A. Risk Factors Factors That May Affect Future Results The known risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and this may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, significant fluctuations in quarterly revenues and operating results. Our revenues and operating results are relatively difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: • the variable size and timing of individual purchases by our customers, including delays in customer purchasing decisions or orders due to customer consolidation; • the absence of long-term customer purchase contracts; • seasonal factors that may affect capital spending by customers, such as the varying fiscal year ends of customers and the reduction in business during the summer months, particularly in Europe; • the relatively long sales cycles for our products; • competitive conditions in our markets; • exchange rate fluctuations; • the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us and by our customers, competitors and suppliers; • costs associated with developing and introducing new products; • product life cycles; • changes in the level of operating expenses relative to revenues; • product defects and other quality problems; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products; • supply interruptions; • changes in global or regional economic conditions or in the telecommunications industry; • asset impairment, valuation allowance and restructuring charges; • changes in our tax rate; • adverse results from current or future litigation; • changes in the mix of products sold; and • changes in the regulatory environment. Our revenues in any period generally have been, and may continue to be, derived from relatively small numbers of sales and service transactions with relatively high average revenues per order. Therefore, the loss of any orders or delays in closing such transactions could have a more significant impact on our quarterly revenues and results of operations than on those of companies with relatively high volumes of sales or low revenues per order. Our products generally are shipped within 15 to 45 days after orders are received. As a result, we generally do not have a significant backlog of orders, and revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders booked, shipped and installed in that quarter. 13 Table of Contents Most of our costs, including personnel and facilities costs, are relatively fixed at levels based on anticipated revenue. As a result, a decline in revenue from even a limited number of transactions, failure to achieve expected revenue in any quarter or unanticipated variations in the timing of recognition of specific revenues can cause significant variations in our quarterly operating results and can result in losses. We believe, therefore, that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Due to the factors described above, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is possible that in a particular quarter our results of operations could fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may fall. Our ability to deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent on our ability to meet new and changing requirements for telecommunications test systems and services. The market for telecommunications test systems and services is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements and frequent product and service introductions and enhancements. In addition, because of the rapid technological change characteristic of the telecommunications industry, we may be required to support legacy systems used by our customers. As a result, this may place additional demands on our personnel and other resources and may require us to maintain an inventory of otherwise obsolete components. Our test systems currently operate only on the Linuxtm and Sun Microsystems’s Solaristm operating systems. Our current and prospective customers may request other operating systems, such as Windows XPtm, to be used in their telecommunications test systems or may require the integration of other industry standards. We may not be able to successfully adapt our products to such operating systems on a timely or cost-effective basis, if at all. Our failure to respond to rapidly changing technologies and to develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner could result in a reduction in customer orders and thereby adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operation. Our success will depend in part on whether a large number of telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators purchase our products and services. Because the telecommunications market is rapidly evolving, it is difficult to predict the future success of products and services in this market. The customers in this market use products from a number of competing suppliers for various testing purposes, and there has not been broad adoption of the products of one company. Our current or future products or services may not achieve widespread acceptance among telecommunications equipment manufacturers, network operators or other potential customers. In addition, our competitors may develop solutions that could render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In the event the telecommunications industry does not broadly adopt our products or services or does so less rapidly than we expect, or in the event our products are rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by more advanced solutions, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. Our success depends on the timely development and introduction of new products. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing industry standards and customer requirements by enhancing our existing products and services. We will need to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products, features and services that address the needs of our customer base. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, product enhancements and related services that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards or that adequately meet new market demands. For example, in fiscal 2006, our revenues were negatively impacted by product development delays resulting from the length of time and level of resources that were required to complete our common hardware platform that supports both our DCT and MGTS products. 14 Table of Contents Historically, our revenues have been dependent upon a few significant customers, the loss of one or more of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our customer base is highly concentrated, and a relatively small number of companies have accounted for substantially all of our revenues to date. In our fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, our top five customers represented approximately 50% of total revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively limited number of customers for substantially all of our revenues in future periods, although no customer is presently obligated either to purchase a specific amount of products or to provide us with binding forecasts of purchases for any period. If we were to lose a significant customer as a result of competition or industry consolidation, or if a significant customer were to reduce, delay or cancel its orders, our operating results could be seriously harmed. Our business is dependent on our customers outsourcing their telecommunications testing needs, and our business could be harmed if the market for outsourced testing solutions declines or fails to grow. Our success will depend on continued growth in the market for telecommunications test systems and services and the continued commercial acceptance of our products as a solution to address the testing requirements of telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators. While most of our present and potential customers have the technical capability and financial resources to produce their own test systems and perform test services internally, to date, many have chosen to outsource a substantial proportion of their test system and service requirements. In fiscal 2006, our revenues in Japan were negatively impacted by competition from test products developed by two of our Japanese OEM customers, both for their own internal use and for sale to our major Japanese telecom operator customers. We expect this competitive factor to continue to impact our Japanese revenues in fiscal 2007. Our customers may not continue, and potential new customers may not choose, to outsource any of their test systems and service requirements. If the market for telecommunications test systems and services, or the demand for outsourcing, declines or fails to grow, or if our products and services are less widely adopted as a telecommunications test solution, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. We face foreign business, political and economic risks because a significant portion of our sales is to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2006, we derived 75% of our revenues from customers outside of the United States, and we maintain operations in eleven other countries. International sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • longer customer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in regulatory requirements or in economic or trade policy; • costs related to localizing products for foreign countries; • potentially weaker protection for intellectual property in certain foreign countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and practices, tariffs and other trade barriers; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings. A significant portion of our sales, including all our sales in Japan, is denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. For example, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the revenues, net income, earnings per share and cash flow of our operations in affected markets. A decrease in the value of the Japanese yen against the dollar contributed to some degree to the revenue decrease we experienced in Japan in fiscal 2006. Similarly, such fluctuations may cause us to raise prices, which could affect demand for our products and services. In addition, if exchange or price controls or other restrictions are imposed in countries in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. 15 Table of Contents We face intense competition in our markets from more established test solutions providers, and if we are unable to compete successfully we may not be able to maintain or grow our business. The market for our products is highly competitive. A number of our competitors are better known and have substantially greater financial, technological, production and marketing resources than we do. While we believe that the price/performance characteristics of our products are competitive, competition in the markets for our products could force us to reduce prices. Any material reduction in the price of our products without corresponding decreases in manufacturing costs and increases in unit volume would negatively affect our gross margins. Increased competition for our products that results in lower product sales could also adversely impact our upgrade sales. Our ability to maintain our competitive position will depend upon, among other factors, our success in anticipating industry trends, investing in product research and development, developing new products with improved price/performance characteristics and effectively managing the introduction of new products into targeted markets. Our success depends on the continued growth of the telecommunications industry and increased use of our test solutions, and lack of growth in this industry could harm our business. Our future success is dependent upon the continued growth of the telecommunications industry. The global telecommunications industry is evolving rapidly, and it is difficult to predict its potential growth rate or future trends in technology development. The deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide telecommunications market that have resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for Internet services and the resulting need for high speed or enhanced telecommunications equipment may not continue at its current rate or at all. Our future success depends upon the increased utilization of our test solutions by network operators and telecommunications equipment manufacturers. Industry-wide network equipment and infrastructure development driving the demand for our products and services may be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including cost, industry consolidation, regulatory obstacles or the lack of or a reduction in consumer demand for advanced telecommunications products and services. Telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators may not develop new technology or enhance current technology. Further, any such new technology or enhancements may not lead to greater demand for our products or services. Our business could be harmed if we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our future growth and success depends to a significant extent upon the continuing services of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not have long-term employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. Competition for qualified management and other high-level telecommunications industry personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. If we lose the services of any key employees, we may not be able to manage our business successfully or achieve our business objectives. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, finance and management personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our revenues and product development efforts could be harmed. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may make of other companies, products or technologies. As part of our business strategy, we acquired Tekelec’s Network Diagnostics Business in 2002, and we may make further acquisitions of, or significant investments in, companies, products or technologies that we believe are complementary. Any such transactions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in making acquisitions of companies, products and technologies. Such risks include, among others: • difficulties associated with assimilating the personnel and operations of acquired companies; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; 16 Table of Contents • distraction of management and other resources; • integration of personnel and technology of an acquired company; • difficulties in evaluating the technology of a potential target; • inability to motivate and retain new personnel; • maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets acquired due to a failure to generate the levels of cash flow anticipated at the acquisition date; and • impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of the integration of new management personnel. We have limited experience in assimilating acquired companies or product lines into our operations. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, we recorded an impairment charge against long-lived assets acquired with NDB. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any such future acquisitions. Furthermore, any future acquisitions could result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results or decrease the value of our common stock. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those tax jurisdictions. Due to the complexity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from tax authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. We are a defendant in a lawsuit with a distributor in Belgium, and an adverse result in this matter could require us to pay significant damages. In October 2002 Tucana Telecom NV, a Belgian company, sued us and one of our subsidiaries in the Antwerp Commercial Court, Antwerp, Belgium. Tucana had been a distributor of products for Tekelec, the company from which we acquired the Network Diagnostic Business in August 2002. The writ alleges that we improperly terminated an exclusive distribution agreement with Tucana following the acquisition and seeks damages of 12,461,000 euros ($15,809,271 as of September 30, 2006) plus interest and legal costs. The case was heard April 28, 2006 and in a judgment on May 5, 2006, the Antwerp Commercial Court in Antwerp, Belgium dismissed the action on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. On June 23, 2006, the Company was notified by its Belgian counsel that Tucana has filed a request for appeal against the judgment. A hearing has been scheduled for October 1, 2007. We have defended the action vigorously and will continue to do so in the appeal. In the event that the Belgian court of appeal should rule in Tucana’s favor on the jurisdictional issue and should then find that we improperly terminated the distribution agreement with Tucana, we could be assessed significant damages. In the event of a judgment against us, we may be able to seek indemnification from Tekelec for damages in this matter under the terms of our acquisition agreement with Tekelec, but there is no assurance that such indemnification would be available. Many of our suppliers are sole source or single source suppliers, and our inability to obtain adequate amounts of components from these suppliers could harm our business. We purchase many key components, including certain microprocessors, workstations, bus interface and other chips, connectors and other hardware, from the sole supplier of a particular component. For other components, even though multiple vendors may exist, we may purchase components from only a single source. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with these vendors to ensure uninterrupted supply of these components. If our supply of a key component is reduced or interrupted, we might require a significant amount of time to qualify alternative 17 Table of Contents suppliers and receive an adequate flow of replacement components. We may also need to reconfigure our products to adapt to new components, which could entail substantial time and expense. In addition, the process of manufacturing certain of these components is extremely complex, and our reliance on the suppliers of these components exposes us to potential production difficulties and quality variations. These could negatively affect cost and timely delivery of our products. We have in the past experienced supply problems as a result of the financial or operational difficulties of our suppliers, shortages and discontinuations resulting from component obsolescence. Although to date we have not experienced material delays in product deliveries to our customers resulting from supply problems, such problems may recur or, if such problems do recur, we may not find satisfactory solutions. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of fully functional components or are otherwise required to seek alternative sources of supply, our relationship with our customers and our results of operations could be harmed. We depend on a limited number of independent manufacturers, which reduces our ability to control our manufacturing process. We rely on a limited number of independent manufacturers, some of which are small, privately held companies, to provide certain assembly services to our specifications. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with any third-party manufacturer. If our assembly services are reduced or interrupted, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected until we are able to establish sufficient assembly services supply from alternative sources. Alternative manufacturing sources may not be able to meet our future requirements, and existing or alternative sources may not continue to be available to us at favorable prices. The high level of complexity and integration of our products increases the risk of latent defects, which could damage customer relationships and increase our costs. Our complex products may contain undetected errors or “bugs”, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors may be found in future releases of our software. In addition, any such errors may generate adverse publicity, impair the market acceptance of these products, create customer concerns or adversely affect operating results due to product returns, the costs of generating corrective releases or otherwise. We face exposure to product liability claims, which if successful could harm our business. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims and we have not experienced any product liability claims to date. However, it is possible that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions, particularly since we sell a majority of our products internationally. Our sale and support of products may thus entail the risk of such claims. A successful product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain adequate product liability insurance and if we were to lose a large uninsured claim, then such a loss could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and our failure to protect our intellectual property could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our success and ability to compete effectively are dependent in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To date, we have not sought patent protection for our proprietary technology. Patent protection may become more significant in our industry in the future. Likewise, the measures we undertake may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. To date, we have federally registered certain of our trademarks and copyrights. Our practice is to affix copyright notices on software, hardware and product literature in order to assert copyright protection for these works. The lack of federal registration of all of our trademarks and copyrights may have an adverse effect on our intellectual property rights in the future. Additionally, we may be subject to further risks as we enter into transactions in countries where intellectual property laws are unavailable, do not provide adequate protection or are difficult to enforce. Unauthorized parties may attempt to duplicate aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In December 2005 we brought suit against a competitor for alleged misappropriation of confidential 18 Table of Contents and trade secret information, as described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this report. Our steps to protect our proprietary technology may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such technology, and may not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar to our products. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed significantly. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property, which could divert management attention, be costly to defend and prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. The telecommunications industry is characterized by a relatively high level of litigation based on allegations of infringement of proprietary rights. To date we have not been subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property by third parties. In the future, third parties may assert infringement claims against us. In addition, an assertion of infringement may result in litigation in which we may not prevail. Furthermore, any such claims, with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management. In addition, infringement claims may require us to develop new technology or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Because we do not rely on patents to protect our technology, we will not be able to offer a license for patented technology in connection with any settlement of patent infringement lawsuits. If a claim of infringement or misappropriation against us were successful and we fail or are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license any infringed, misappropriated or similar technology at a reasonable cost, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we indemnify our customers against claimed infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights of third parties. Any requirement for us to indemnify a customer may significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Some of our operations are subject to state, federal, and international laws governing protection of the environment, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. We endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs; increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacture; limit our sales activities; and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Currently, a significant portion of our revenues comes from international sales. Recent environmental legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these new requirements. The EU has published Directives on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE Directive”). The WEEE Directive makes producers of certain electrical and electronic equipment financially responsible for collection, reuse, recycling, treatment, and disposal of equipment placed on the EU market after August 13, 2005 (the “effective date”). The WEEE Directive also makes commercial end users of electronic equipment financially responsible for the collection and management of equipment placed on the market before the effective date. The WEEE Directive also requires labeling products placed on the EU market after the effective date. As a result of these obligations, our product distribution, logistics and waste management costs may increase and may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control. In recent years, the stock market in general and the market for technology stocks in particular, including our common stock, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors such as: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in our revenue growth rates as a whole or for specific geographic areas or products; • changes in earning estimates by market analysts; • the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. If we are unable to determine and demonstrate that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, this may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and the price of our stock could drop significantly. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending September 30, 2005, we were required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting together with a report from our independent registered public accounting firm on our assessment and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As stated in Item 9A of Part II, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal control is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our major stockholders and others could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock by our major stockholders in the public market could harm the market price for our common stock. As of November 30, 2006, Richard A. Karp, our Chief Executive Office and Chairman of our Board, beneficially owned 2,990,352 shares and Nancy H. Karp, one of our directors, beneficially owned 1,365,978 shares of our common stock. These shares are eligible for resale into the public market within the restrictions imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Sales of a significant amount of these shares could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Our principal stockholders could prevent or delay a change in control. As of November 30, 2006, Dr. Karp beneficially owned 2,990,352 shares or approximately 20% of our common stock outstanding and Nancy H. Karp, one of our directors, beneficially owned 1,365,978 shares or approximately 9% of our common stock outstanding. Such a concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the control of our company. 20 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Nevada law could prevent or delay a change in the control of our company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Nevada law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could discourage a proxy contest or make more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that may be superior to those of the common stock and that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock or rights to purchase preferred stock could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 