Item 1A. Risk Factors The known risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and this may result in volatility in the market price of our common stock. We have experienced, and anticipate that we will continue to experience, significant fluctuations in quarterly revenues and operating results. Our revenues and operating results are relatively difficult to forecast for a number of reasons, including: • the variable size and timing of individual purchases by our customers, including delays in customer purchasing decisions or orders due to customer consolidation; • the absence of long-term customer purchase contracts; • seasonal factors that may affect capital spending by customers, such as the varying fiscal year ends of customers and the reduction in business during the summer months, particularly in Europe; • the relatively long sales cycles for our products; • competitive conditions in our markets; • exchange rate fluctuations; • the timing of the introduction and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us and by our customers, competitors and suppliers; • costs associated with developing and introducing new products; • product life cycles; • changes in the level of operating expenses relative to revenues; • product defects and other quality problems; • customer order deferrals in anticipation of new products; • supply interruptions; • changes in global or regional economic conditions or in the telecommunications industry; • asset impairment, valuation allowance and restructuring charges; • changes in our tax rate; • changes in the mix of products sold; • changes in the regulatory and accounting environment; and • adverse results from litigation. Our revenues in any period generally have been, and may continue to be, derived from relatively small numbers of sales and service transactions with relatively high average revenues per order. Therefore, the loss of any orders or delays in closing such transactions could have a more significant impact on our quarterly revenues and results of operations than on those of companies with relatively high volumes of sales or low revenues per order. Our products usually are shipped within 15 to 45 days after orders are received. As a result, we generally do not have a significant backlog of product orders, and the majority of revenues in any quarter is dependent on orders booked and delivered in that quarter. Most of our costs, including personnel and facilities costs, are relatively fixed at levels based on anticipated revenue. As a result, a decline in revenue from even a limited number of transactions, failure to achieve expected 11 Table of Contents revenue in any quarter or unanticipated variations in the timing of recognition of specific revenues can cause significant variations in our quarterly operating results and can result in losses. We believe, therefore, that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Due to the factors described above, as well as other unanticipated factors, it is possible that in a particular quarter our results of operations could fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may fall. Our ability to deliver products that meet customer demand is dependent on our ability to meet new and changing requirements for telecommunications test systems and services. The market for telecommunications test systems and services is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, rapid changes in customer requirements and frequent product introductions and enhancements. Any failure on our part to respond to any of these factors, including a failure to identify and engage appropriate contract development resources where required and to develop and introduce new products and services in a timely manner could result in a reduction in customer orders and thereby adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations. Our success will depend in part on whether a large number of telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators purchase our products and services. Because the telecommunications market is rapidly evolving, it is difficult to predict the future success of products and services in this market. The customers in this market use products from a number of competing suppliers for various testing purposes, and there has not been broad adoption of the products of one company. Our current or future products or services may not achieve widespread acceptance among telecommunications equipment manufacturers, network operators or other potential customers. In addition, our competitors may develop solutions that could render our products obsolete or uncompetitive. In the event the telecommunications industry does not broadly adopt our products or services or does so less rapidly than we expect, or in the event our products are rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by more advanced solutions, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. Our business is dependent on our customers outsourcing their telecommunications testing needs, and our business could be harmed if the market for outsourced testing solutions declines or fails to grow. Our success will depend on continued growth in the market for telecommunications test systems and services and the continued commercial acceptance of our products as a solution to address the testing requirements of telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators. While most of our present and potential customers have the technical capability and financial resources to produce their own test systems and perform test services internally, to date, many have chosen to outsource a substantial proportion of their test system and service requirements. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, our revenues in Japan were negatively impacted by competition from test products developed by one of our Japanese OEM customers, both for their own internal use and for sale to our major Japanese telecom operator customers. We expect that this competitive factor may continue to impact our Japanese revenues to some degree in fiscal 2009. Our customers may not continue, and potential new customers may not choose, to outsource any of their test systems and service requirements. If the market for telecommunications test systems and services, or the demand for outsourcing, declines or fails to grow, or if our products and services are less widely adopted as a telecommunications test solution, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. Historically, our revenues have been dependent upon a few significant customers, the loss of one or more of which could significantly reduce our revenues. Our customer base is highly concentrated, and a relatively small number of companies have accounted for substantially all of our revenues to date. In our fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, our top five customers represented approximately 54% of total revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend upon a relatively limited number of customers for substantially all of our revenues in future periods, although no customer is presently obligated either to purchase a specific amount of products or to provide us with binding forecasts of purchases for any period. If we were to lose a significant customer as a result of competition or further industry 12 Table of Contents consolidation, or if a significant customer were to reduce, delay or cancel its orders, our operating results could be seriously harmed. Our success depends on the timely development and introduction of new products. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing industry standards and customer requirements by enhancing our existing products and services. We will need to develop and introduce, on a timely and cost-effective basis, new products, features and services that address the needs of our customer base. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and marketing new products, product enhancements and related services that respond to technological change or evolving industry standards or that adequately meet new market demands. For example, in fiscal 2006, our revenues were negatively impacted by product development delays resulting from the length of time and level of resources that were required to complete the common hardware platform that supports both our DCT and MGTS products. We face foreign business, political and economic risks because a significant portion of our sales is to customers outside the United States. In fiscal 2008, we derived 80% of our revenues from customers outside of the United States, and we maintain operations in 11 other countries. International sales and operations are subject to inherent risks, including: • longer customer payment cycles; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection times; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • changes in regulatory requirements or in economic or trade policy; • costs related to localizing products for foreign countries; • potentially weaker protection for intellectual property in certain foreign countries; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and practices, tariffs and other trade barriers; and • potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings. A significant portion of our sales, including all our sales in Japan, is denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may contribute to fluctuations in our operating results. For example, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect the revenues, net income, earnings per share and cash flow of our operations in affected markets. Similarly, such fluctuations may cause us to raise prices, which could affect demand for our products and services. In addition, if exchange or price controls or other restrictions are imposed in countries in which we do business, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. We face intense competition in our markets from more established test solutions providers, and if we are unable to compete successfully we may not be able to maintain or grow our business. The market for our products is highly competitive. A number of our competitors are better known and have substantially greater financial, technological, production and marketing resources than we do. While we believe that the price/performance characteristics of our products are competitive, competition in the markets for our products could force us to reduce prices. Any material reduction in the price of our products without corresponding decreases in manufacturing costs and increases in unit volume would negatively affect our gross margins. Increased competition for our products that results in lower product sales could also adversely impact our upgrade sales. Our ability to maintain our competitive position will depend upon, among other factors, our success in anticipating industry trends, investing in product research and development, developing new products with improved price/performance characteristics and effectively managing the introduction of new products into targeted markets. 13 Table of Contents Our success depends on continued technological change in the telecommunications industry and increased use of our test solutions, and lack of technological change in this industry could harm our business. Our future success is dependent upon continued technological change in the telecommunications industry. The global telecommunications industry is evolving rapidly, and it is difficult to predict its potential growth rate or future trends in technology development. The deregulation, privatization and economic globalization of the worldwide telecommunications market that have resulted in increased competition and escalating demand for new technologies and services may not continue in a manner favorable to us or our business strategies. In addition, the growth in demand for Internet services and the resulting need for new high-speed or enhanced telecommunications equipment may not continue at its current rate or at all. Our future success depends upon the increased utilization of our test solutions by network operators and telecommunications equipment manufacturers. Industry-wide network equipment and infrastructure development driving the demand for our products and services may be delayed or prevented by a variety of factors, including cost, industry consolidation, regulatory obstacles or the lack of or a reduction in consumer demand for advanced telecommunications products and services. Telecommunications equipment manufacturers and network operators may not develop new technology or enhance current technology. Further, any such new technology or enhancements may not lead to greater demand for our products or services. Our business could be harmed if we were to lose the services of one or more members of our senior management team, or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our future growth and success depends to a significant extent upon the continuing services of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not have long-term employment agreements or non-competition agreements with any of our employees. Competition for qualified management and other high-level telecommunications industry personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel. If we lose the services of any key employees, we may not be able to manage our business successfully or achieve our business objectives. Our success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified technical, sales, finance and management personnel. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications. If we do not succeed in hiring and retaining candidates with appropriate qualifications, our revenues and product development efforts could be harmed. We may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions we may make of other companies, products or technologies. As part of our business strategy, we acquired NDB in 2002, and we may make further acquisitions of, or significant investments in, companies, products or technologies that we believe are complementary. Any such transactions would be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in making acquisitions of companies, products and technologies. Such risks include, among others: • difficulties associated with assimilating the personnel and operations of acquired companies; • potential disruption of our ongoing business; • distraction of management and other resources; • integration of personnel and technology of an acquired company; • difficulties in evaluating the technology of a potential target; • inability to motivate and retain new personnel; • maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets acquired due to a failure to generate the levels of cash flow anticipated at the acquisition date; and • impairment of relationships with employees and clients as a result of the integration of new management personnel. 14 Table of Contents We have limited experience in assimilating acquired companies or product lines into our operations. In the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006, we recorded an impairment charge against long-lived assets acquired with NDB. We may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any such future acquisitions. Furthermore, any future acquisitions could result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any of these could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results or decrease the value of our common stock. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those jurisdictions. Due to the complexity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from tax authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. Many of our suppliers are sole source or single source suppliers, and our inability to obtain adequate amounts of components from these suppliers could harm our business. We purchase many key components, including certain microprocessors, workstations, bus interface and other chips, connectors and other hardware, from the sole supplier of a particular component. For other components, even though multiple vendors may exist, we may purchase components from only a single source. We do not have any long-term supply agreements with these vendors to ensure uninterrupted supply of these components. If our supply of a key component is reduced or interrupted, we might require a significant amount of time to qualify alternative suppliers and receive an adequate flow of replacement components. We may also need to reconfigure our products to adapt to new components, which could entail substantial time and expense. In addition, the process of manufacturing certain of these components is extremely complex, and our reliance on the suppliers of these components exposes us to potential production difficulties and quality variations. These could negatively affect cost and timely delivery of our products. We have in the past experienced supply problems as a result of the financial or operational difficulties of our suppliers, shortages and discontinuations resulting from component obsolescence. Although to date we have not experienced material delays in product deliveries to our customers resulting from supply problems, such problems may recur or, if such problems do recur, we may not find satisfactory solutions. If we are unable to obtain adequate amounts of fully functional components or are otherwise required to seek alternative sources of supply, our relationship with our customers and our results of operations could be harmed. The high level of complexity and integration of our products increases the risk of latent defects, which could damage customer relationships and increase our costs. Our complex products may contain undetected errors or “bugs,” particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. Errors may be found in future releases of our software. In addition, any such errors may generate adverse publicity, impair the market acceptance of these products, create customer concerns or adversely affect operating results due to product returns, the costs of generating corrective releases or otherwise. We face exposure to product liability claims, which if successful could harm our business. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims and we have not experienced any product liability claims to date. However, it is possible that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions, particularly since we sell a majority of our products internationally. Our sale and support of products may thus entail the risk of such claims. A successful product liability claim brought against us could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain adequate product liability insurance and if we were to lose a large uninsured claim, then such a loss could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Our success is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and our failure to protect our intellectual property could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Our success and ability to compete effectively are dependent in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To date, we have sought limited patent protection for our proprietary technology. Patent protection may become more significant in our industry in the future. Likewise, the measures we undertake may not be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. To date, we have federally registered certain of our trademarks and copyrights. Our practice is to affix copyright notices on software, hardware and product literature in order to assert copyright protection for these works. The lack of federal registration of all of our trademarks and copyrights may have an adverse effect on our intellectual property rights in the future. Additionally, we may be subject to further risks as we enter into transactions in countries where intellectual property laws are unavailable, do not provide adequate protection or are difficult to enforce. Unauthorized parties may attempt to duplicate aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In March 2007, we reached a favorable settlement of a lawsuit that we had brought against a competitor for alleged misappropriation of confidential and trade secret information. Our steps to protect our proprietary technology may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of such technology, and may not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar to our products. If we fail to protect our proprietary technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed significantly. We could become subject to litigation regarding intellectual property, which could divert management attention, be costly to defend and prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology. The telecommunications industry is characterized by a relatively high level of litigation based on allegations of infringement of proprietary rights. To date we have not been subject to claims of infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property by third parties. In the future, third parties may assert infringement claims against us. In addition, an assertion of infringement may result in litigation in which we may not prevail. Furthermore, any such claims, with or without merit, could result in substantial cost to us and diversion of our management. In addition, infringement claims may require us to develop new technology or require us to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements. These royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Because we do not rely on patents to protect our technology, we will not be able to offer a license for patented technology in connection with any settlement of patent infringement lawsuits. If a claim of infringement or misappropriation against us were successful and we fail or are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license any infringed, misappropriated or similar technology at a reasonable cost, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, we indemnify our customers against claimed infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights of third parties. Any requirement for us to indemnify a customer may significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. Some of our operations are subject to state, federal, and international laws governing protection of the environment, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. We endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs; increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacture; limit our sales activities; and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our investment in auction rate securities exposes us to risks that may affect the liquidity of these investments and result in losses. On February 11, 2008, when the market for auction rate securities began to experience widespread auction failures, we held a total of $12 million in these securities in two of our externally managed short-term investment 16 Table of Contents portfolios. Since then, as a result of auction sales due to some degree of recovery in the auction market together with refinancing of some issues, our total position in these securities has been reduced to $5.0 million. These sales and redemptions have all occurred at par without a loss. The remaining auction rate securities that we hold represent student loan and closed-end mutual fund preferred issues. All are highly rated and the majority are supported by federally insured student loan obligations. We anticipate that liquidation of these remaining securities may be protracted and accordingly we have reclassified them as long-term assets. Given our experience to date and the information available at this time, we currently believe that there has been no other-than-temporary impairment in the value of these assets and that their carrying value approximates their fair value. If market conditions deteriorate, we may not be able to realize the value of these securities for an extended period of time, and it may be necessary to record an impairment charge in a future period. We are a defendant in a lawsuit with a distributor in Belgium, and an adverse result in this matter could require us to pay significant damages. On May 22, 2007, the Antwerp Court of Appeal heard an appeal by Tucana Telecom NV, a Belgian company, of the previous dismissal by the Antwerp Commercial Court of an action by Tucana against Catapult. Tucana had sought damages of 12,461,000 euros (approximately $17.5 million as of September 30, 2008) for the alleged improper termination in 2002 by Catapult of Tucana’s distribution agreement with the Company. On June 19, 2007, the Antwerp Court of Appeal confirmed the Commercial Court’s dismissal of Tucana’s action and assessed the costs of the appeal against Tucana. On July 22, 2008, the Company was notified by its Belgian counsel that Tucana has appealed the judgment of the Antwerp Court of Appeal to the Belgian Supreme Court. No hearing has been scheduled. The Company is advised by its Belgian counsel that if the judgment of the Court of Appeal is annulled, the case would have to be re-tried. The Company believes that it properly terminated any contract it had with Tucana and that Tucana is not entitled to any damages in this matter. The Company has defended the action vigorously to date and will continue to do so. We may be able to seek indemnification from Tekelec for any damages assessed against us in this matter under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement we entered into with Tekelec, although there is no assurance that such indemnification would be available. It is not possible to determine the amount of any loss that might be incurred in this matter. Risks Related to Our Stock Our stock has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which will be beyond our control. In recent years, the stock market in general and the market for technology stocks in particular, including our common stock, have experienced extreme price fluctuations. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by various factors such as: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in our revenue growth rates as a whole or for specific geographic areas or products; • changes in earning estimates by market analysts; • the announcements of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. The market price of our common stock may experience significant fluctuations in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our major stockholders and others could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of common stock by our major stockholders in the public market could harm the market price for our common stock. As of September 30, 2008, Richard A. Karp, our Chief Executive Office and Chairman of our Board, owned or controlled approximately 24% of our common stock outstanding and 17 Table of Contents Nancy H. Karp, one of our directors, owned or controlled approximately 11% of our common stock outstanding. These shares are eligible for resale into the public market within the restrictions imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. Sales of a significant amount of these shares could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Our principal stockholders could prevent or delay a change in control. As of September 30, 2008, Richard A. Karp, our Chief Executive Office and Chairman of our Board, owned or controlled approximately 24% of our common stock outstanding and Nancy H. Karp, one of our directors, owned or controlled approximately 11% of our common stock outstanding. Due to repurchases of common stock by the Company, the percentage of shares held by these individuals has increased, and may continue to increase. Such a concentration of ownership and voting power may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in the control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and Nevada law could prevent or delay a change in the control of our company and may reduce the market price of our common stock. Nevada law, our articles of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could discourage a proxy contest or make more difficult the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights and preferences that may be superior to those of the common stock and that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock or rights to purchase preferred stock could be used to discourage an unsolicited acquisition proposal. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 