Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer. As a result, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of any investment you have in our securities. RISKS RELATED TO THE HOTEL INDUSTRY Current economic conditions have adversely impacted the lodging industry. The U.S. economy has been negatively impacted by financial industry turmoil, high unemployment and poor consumer sentiment over the past two years. As a result, the lodging industry had experienced negative growth which had a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. A return to these market conditions could reduce revenues of our hotels and could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Our hotels are subject to general hotel industry operating risks, which may impact our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Our hotels are subject to all operating risks common to the hotel industry. The hotel industry has experienced volatility in the past, as have our hotels, and there can be no assurance that such volatility will not occur in the future. These risks include, among other things: competition from other hotels; over-building in the hotel industry that could adversely affect hotel revenues and hotel values; increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased room rates; reduction in business and commercial travel and tourism; strikes and other labor disturbances of hotel employees; increases in energy costs and other expenses of travel; adverse effects of general and local economic conditions; and adverse political conditions. These factors could reduce revenues of the hotels and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. The value of our hotels depends on conditions beyond our control. Our hotels are subject to varying degrees of risk generally incident to the ownership of hotels. The underlying value of our hotels, our income and ability to make distributions to our shareholders are dependent upon the operation of the hotels in a manner sufficient to maintain or increase revenues in excess of operating expenses. Hotel revenues may be adversely affected by adverse changes in national economic conditions, adverse changes in local market conditions due to changes in general or local economic conditions and neighborhood characteristics, competition from other hotels, changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds, the impact of present or future environmental legislation and compliance with environmental laws, the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures, changes in real estate tax rates and other operating expenses, adverse changes in governmental rules and fiscal policies, civil unrest, acts of terrorism, acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters, acts of war, adverse changes in zoning laws, and other factors that are beyond our control. In particular, general and local economic conditions may be adversely affected by the previous terrorist incidents in New York and Washington, D.C. Our management is unable to determine the long-term impact, if any, of these incidents or of any acts of war or terrorism in the United States or worldwide, on the U.S. economy, on us or our hotels or on the market price of our common shares. Our investments are concentrated in a single segment of the hotel industry. Our primary business strategy is to continue to acquire high quality, upscale and mid-scale limited service and extended-stay hotels in metropolitan markets with high barriers to entry in the Northeastern United States and other markets with similar characteristics. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in a single industry and in a specific market segment within that industry. The adverse effect on amounts available for distribution to shareholders resulting from a downturn in the hotel industry in general or the mid-scale segment in particular could be more pronounced than if we had diversified our investments outside of the hotel industry or in additional hotel market segments. Operating costs and capital expenditures for hotel renovation may be greater than anticipated and may adversely impact distributions to shareholders. Hotels generally have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, particularly in older structures, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Under the terms of our management agreements, we are obligated to pay the cost of expenditures for items that are classified as capital items under GAAP that are necessary for the continued operation of our hotels. If these expenses exceed our estimate, the additional cost could have an adverse effect on amounts available for distribution to shareholders. In addition, we may acquire hotels in the future that require significant renovation. Renovation of hotels involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from hotels. 8 Table of Contents The hotel industry is highly competitive. The hotel industry is highly competitive. Our hotels compete with other existing and new hotels in their geographic markets. Many of our competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do. Effective marketing by our competitors may reduce our hotel revenue and adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Risks of operating hotels under franchise licenses, which may be terminated or not renewed, may impact our ability to make distributions to shareholders. The continuation of the franchise licenses is subject to specified operating standards and other terms and conditions. All of the franchisors of our hotels periodically inspect our hotels to confirm adherence to their operating standards. The failure to maintain such standards or to adhere to such other terms and conditions could result in the loss or cancellation of the applicable franchise license. It is possible that a franchisor could condition the continuation of a franchise license on the completion of capital improvements that the trustees determine are too expensive or otherwise not economically feasible in light of general economic conditions, the operating results or prospects of the affected hotel. In that event, the trustees may elect to allow the franchise license to lapse or be terminated. There can be no assurance that a franchisor will renew a franchise license at each option period. If a franchisor terminates a franchise license, we may be unable to obtain a suitable replacement franchise, or to successfully operate the hotel independent of a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could have a material adverse effect upon the operations or the underlying value of the related hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. Our loss of a franchise license for one or more of the hotels could have a material adverse effect on our partnership’s revenues and our amounts available for distribution to shareholders. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. The hotel industry is seasonal in nature. Generally, hotel revenues are greater in the second and third quarters than in the first and fourth quarters. Our hotels’ operations historically reflect this trend. As a result, our results of operations may vary on a quarterly basis, impairing comparability of operating data and financial performance on a quarter to quarter basis. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect travel and hotel demand. Previous terrorist attacks and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the U.S. travel and hospitality industries over the past several years, often disproportionately to the effect on the overall economy. The impact that terrorist attacks in the U.S. or elsewhere could have on domestic and international travel and our business in particular cannot be determined but any such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and our results of operations and financial condition. The outbreak of influenza or other widespread contagious disease could reduce travel and adversely affect hotel demand. The widespread outbreak of infectious or contagious disease in the U.S., such as the H1N1 influenza (swine flu), could reduce travel and adversely affect the hotel industry generally and our business in particular. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS A general economic recession or depression could have a serious adverse economic impact on us. In 2010, general worldwide economic conditions suffered due to sequential effects of the sub prime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. Our business plans for 2011 and beyond depend on the general state of the global economy and specifically on the economies of the locations of our hotels. We cannot assure you that favorable economic conditions will exist in the future. A prolonged general economic recession could have a serious adverse economic impact on us. We face risks associated with the use of debt, including refinancing risk. At December 31, 2010, we had outstanding long-term debt, excluding capital leases, of $694.7 million. We may borrow additional amounts from the same or other lenders in the future. Some of these additional borrowings may be secured by our hotels. Our declaration of trust (as amended and restated, our “Declaration of Trust”) does not limit the amount of indebtedness we may incur. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our hotels to foreclosure. Our indebtedness contains various financial and non-financial event of default covenants customarily found in financing arrangements. Our mortgages payable typically require that specified debt service coverage ratios be maintained with respect to the financed properties before we can exercise certain rights under the loan agreements relating to such properties. If the specified criteria are not satisfied, the lender may be able to escrow cash flow from the applicable hotels. 9 Table of Contents There is also a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the existing debt. If principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or repaid with proceeds from other sources, such as new equity capital or sales of properties, we may be forced to use operating income to repay such indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on our cash available for distribution in years when significant “balloon” payments come due. In some such cases, we may lose the applicable hotels to foreclosure. This risk is particularly significant. See Item 7A for a detailed schedule of debt principal repayments. Tightening credit markets have made financing development projects and acquiring new hotel properties more difficult. The turmoil in the financial industry has caused credit to significantly tighten making it more difficult for hotel developers to obtain financing for development projects or for hotels without an operating history. This could have a negative impact on the collectability of our portfolio of development loans receivable, which as of December 31, 2010 was approximately $41.7 million, if the hotel developers are unable to find financing to repay our development loans when development is complete. In addition, the tightening credit markets have made it more difficult to finance the acquisition of new hotel properties. These factors could have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. If we cannot access the capital markets, we may not be able to grow the Company at our historical growth rates. We may not be able to access the capital markets to obtain capital to fund future acquisitions and investments. The market for real estate related debt and equity capital could endure a prolonged period of volatility which may limit our ability to access new capital for acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. Because we must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, were we unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our growth and acquisition activities, our ability to grow could be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to shareholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions. We face high levels of competition for the acquisition of hotel properties and other assets, which may impede our ability to make future acquisitions or may increase the cost of these acquisitions. We face competition for investment opportunities in high quality, upscale and mid-scale limited service and extended-stay hotels from entities organized for purposes substantially similar to our objectives, as well as other purchasers of hotels. We compete for such investment opportunities with entities that have substantially greater financial resources than we do, including access to capital or better relationships with franchisors, sellers or lenders. Our competitors may generally be able to accept more risk than we can manage prudently and may be able to borrow the funds needed to acquire hotels. Competition may generally reduce the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell. We do not operate our hotels and, as a result, we do not have complete control over implementation of our strategic decisions. In order for us to satisfy certain REIT qualification rules, we cannot directly or indirectly operate or manage any of our hotels. Instead, we must engage an independent management company to operate our hotels. As of December 31, 2010, our TRSs and our joint venture partnerships have engaged independent management companies as the property managers for all of our wholly owned hotels leased to our TRSs and the respective hotels for the joint ventures, as required by the REIT qualification rules. The management companies operating the hotels make and implement strategic business decisions with respect to these hotels, such as decisions with respect to the repositioning of a franchise or food and beverage operations and other similar decisions. Decisions made by the management companies operating the hotels may not be in the best interests of a particular hotel or of our company. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the management companies will operate our hotels in a manner that is in our best interests. In addition, the financial condition of the management companies could impact their future ability to operate our hotels. Our acquisitions may not achieve expected performance, which may harm our financial condition and operating results. We anticipate that acquisitions will largely be financed with the net proceeds of securities offerings and through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing. Acquisitions entail risks that investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the cost of improvements necessary to acquire and market properties will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. As a result, we may not be able to generate enough cash from these hotels to make debt service payments or pay operating expenses. 10 Table of Contents Acquisition of hotels with limited operating history may not achieve desired results. Many of our recent acquisitions are newly-developed hotels. Newly-developed or newly-renovated hotels do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make pricing decisions in acquiring these hotels based on historical performance. The purchase prices of these hotels are based upon management’s expectations as to the operating results of such hotels, subjecting us to risks that such hotels may not achieve anticipated operating results or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. As a result, we may not be able to generate enough cash flow from these hotels to make debt payments or pay operating expenses. In addition, room revenues may be less than that required to provide us with our anticipated return on investment. In either case, the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders could be reduced. We may be unable to integrate acquired hotels into our operations or otherwise manage our planned growth, which may adversely affect our operating results. We have recently acquired a substantial number of hotels. We cannot assure you that we or HHMLP will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems and arrangements, or hire and retain sufficient operational staff to successfully integrate these investments into our portfolio and manage any future acquisitions of additional assets without operational disruptions or unanticipated costs. Acquisition of hotels generates additional operating expenses that we will be required to pay. As we acquire additional hotels, we will be subject to the operational risks associated with owning new lodging properties. Our failure to integrate successfully any future acquisitions into our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders or make other payments in respect of securities issued by us. Most of our hotels are located in the Eastern United States and many are located in the area from Washington, DC to Boston, MA, which may increase the effect of any regional or local economic conditions. Most of our hotels are located in the area from Washington, DC to Boston, MA. Forty-one of our wholly owned hotels and eleven of our joint venture hotels are located in the states of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and Connecticut. As a result, regional or localized adverse events or conditions, such as an economic recession, could have a significant adverse effect on our operations, and ultimately on the amounts available for distribution to shareholders. Our ownership of hotels in the New York City market exposes us to concentration risk, which may lead to increased volatility in our results of operations. Our consolidated portfolio of hotels in New York City have historically accounted for approximately 35%-40% of our consolidated earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA, and this percentage is expected to increase going forward with our 2010 acquisitions located in the Times Square and Wall Street area. The three Times Square hotels are newly-constructed hotels that opened for business in July 2009 and have limited operating history. The Wall Street hotel was also newly-constructed and has limited operating history prior to our purchase. As a result, our ability to forecast future operations accurately is limited and there is considerable risk the Times Square and Wall Street hotels may not generate sufficient revenue to cover the costs of their operations or provide attractive returns on our investment. The operations of our consolidated portfolio of hotels in New York City will have a material impact on our overall results of operations. Concentration risk with respect to our ownership of hotels in the New York City market may lead to increased volatility in our overall results of operations. Our overall results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders could be negatively impacted in the event: · the current downturn in lodging fundamentals is more severe or prolonged in New York City compared to the United States as a whole; · negative economic conditions generally are more severe or prolonged in New York City compared to other areas, due to concentration of the financial industry in New York or otherwise; · we adopt an unsuccessful strategy to ramp up and stabilize operations at our newly acquired New York hotels; or · New York City is impacted by other unforeseen events beyond our control, including, among others, terrorist attacks and travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS. We own a limited number of hotels and significant adverse changes at one hotel may impact our ability to make distributions to shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, our portfolio consisted of 62 wholly-owned limited and full service properties and joint venture investments in 15 hotels with a total of 10,262 rooms. However, certain larger hotels or hotels in certain locations disproportionately impact our performance. Accordingly, significant adverse changes in the operations of any one of these hotels could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and on our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. 11 Table of Contents We focus on acquiring hotels operating under a limited number of franchise brands, which creates greater risk as the investments are more concentrated. We place particular emphasis in our acquisition strategy on hotels similar to our current hotels. We invest in hotels operating under a few select franchises and therefore will be subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in a particular franchise brand, which could have an adverse effect on amounts available for distribution to shareholders. These risks include, among others, the risk of a reduction in hotel revenues following any adverse publicity related to a specific franchise brand or the failure of the franchisor to maintain a certain brand. We depend on key personnel. We depend on the services of our existing senior management team, including Jay H. Shah, Neil H. Shah, Ashish R. Parikh and Michael R. Gillespie, to carry out our business and investment strategies. As we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain qualified additional senior management. We have employment agreements with certain of our senior management; however, the employment agreements may be terminated under certain circumstances. The termination of an employment agreement and the loss of the services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may engage in hedging transactions, which can limit our gains and increase exposure to losses. We may enter into hedging transactions intended to protect us from the effects of interest rate fluctuations on floating rate debt and also intended to protect our portfolio of mortgage assets from interest rate and prepayment rate fluctuations. Our hedging transactions may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps, and floors, options to purchase such items, and futures and forward contracts. Hedging activities may not have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. No hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates and prepayment rates. Moreover, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or could adversely affect us because, among other things: · Available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought. · The duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability. · The party at risk in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. · The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction. · The value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” relating to hedging instruments may reduce our shareholders’ equity. Hedging involves risk and typically involves costs, including transaction costs, which may reduce returns on our investments. These costs increase as the period covered by the hedging increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. These costs will also limit the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders. The REIT qualification rules may also limit our ability to enter into hedging transactions. We generally intend to hedge as much of our interest rate risk as our management determines is in our best interests given the cost of such hedging transactions and the requirements applicable to REITs. If we are unable to hedge effectively because of the cost of such hedging transactions or the limitations imposed by the REIT rules, we will face greater interest risk exposure than may be commercially prudent. RISKS RELATED TO REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT GENERALLY Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in operating, economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that the fair market value of any of our hotels will not decrease in the future. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. We require comprehensive insurance to be maintained on each of the our hotels, including liability and fire and extended coverage in amounts sufficient to permit the replacement of the hotel in the event of a total loss, subject to applicable deductibles. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and acts of terrorism, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace the applicable hotel after such applicable hotel has been damaged or destroyed. Under such circumstances, the insurance proceeds received by us might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the applicable hotel. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce the return from the attached property and the value of our investment. 12 Table of Contents Real estate is subject to property taxes. Each hotel is subject to real and personal property taxes. The real and personal property taxes on hotel properties in which we invest may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. Many state and local governments are facing budget deficits that have led many of them, and may in the future lead others to, increase assessments and/or taxes. If property taxes increase, our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Environmental matters could adversely affect our results. Operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of future legislation. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to shareholders. Phase I environmental assessments have been obtained on all of our hotels. Nevertheless, it is possible that these reports do not reveal all environmental liabilities or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are unaware. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1993 (ADA), all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. While we believe that our hotels are substantially in compliance with these requirements, a determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. In addition, changes in governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of the hotels, including changes to building codes and fire and life-safety codes, may occur. If we were required to make substantial modifications at the hotels to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Due to conflicts of interest, many of our existing agreements may not have been negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be in our best interest. Some of our officers and affiliated trustees have ownership interests in HHMLP and in entities with which we have entered into transactions, including hotel acquisitions and dispositions and certain financings. Consequently, the terms of our agreements with those entities, including hotel contribution or purchase agreements, the Option Agreement between our operating partnership and some of the affiliated trustees and officers and our property management agreements with HHMLP may not have been negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be in the best interest of all our shareholders. Conflicts of interest with HHMLP may result in decisions that do not reflect our best interests. The following officers and affiliated trustees own collectively approximately 37% of HHMLP: Hasu P. Shah, Jay H. Shah, Neil H. Shah, David L. Desfor and Kiran P. Patel. Conflicts of interest may arise with respect to the ongoing operation of our hotels including, but not limited to, the enforcement of the contribution and purchase agreements, the Option Agreement and our property management agreements with HHMLP. These officers and affiliated trustees also make decisions for our company with respect to property management. Consequently, these officers and affiliated trustees may not act solely in the best interests of our shareholders relating to property management by HHMLP. Conflicts of interest relating to sales or refinancing of hotels acquired from some of our affiliated trustees and officers may lead to decisions that are not in our best interest. Some of our non-independent trustees and officers have unrealized gains associated with their interests in the hotels we have acquired from them and, as a result, any sale of these hotels or refinancing or prepayment of principal on the indebtedness assumed by us in purchasing these hotels may cause adverse tax consequences to such affiliated trustees and officers. Therefore, our interests and the interests of these individuals may be different in connection with the disposition or refinancing of these hotels. 13 Table of Contents Agreements to provide financing of hotel development projects owned by some of our affiliated trustees and officers may not have been negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be in our best interest. Some of our officers and affiliated trustees have ownership interests in projects to develop hotel properties with which we have entered into agreements to provide financing. Consequently, the terms of our agreements with those entities, including interest rates and other key terms, may not have been negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may not be in the best interest of all our shareholders. Competing hotels owned or acquired by some of our affiliated trustees and officers may hinder these individuals from spending adequate time on our business. Some of our affiliated trustees and officers own hotels and may develop or acquire new hotels, subject to certain limitations. Such ownership, development or acquisition activities may materially affect the amount of time these officers and affiliated trustees devote to our affairs. Some of our affiliated trustees and officers operate hotels that are not owned by us, which may materially affect the amount of time that they devote to managing our hotels. Pursuant to the Option Agreement, as amended, we have an option to acquire any hotels developed by our officers and affiliated trustees. Need for certain consents from the limited partners may not result in decisions advantageous to shareholders. Under our operating partnership’s amended and restated partnership agreement, the holders of at least two-thirds of the interests in the partnership must approve a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the partnership or a merger or consolidation of the partnership. Some of our officers and affiliated trustees own an approximately 2.5% interest in the operating partnership on a fully-diluted basis. Their large ownership percentage may make it less likely that a merger or sale of our company that would be in the best interests of our shareholders would be approved. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE There are no assurances of our ability to make distributions in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our shareholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. However, our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this annual report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our securities is our dividend rate as a percentage of our share or unit price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may desire a higher dividend or interest rate on our securities or seek securities paying higher dividends or interest. The market price of our common shares likely will be based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to shareholders, and not from the market value or underlying appraised value of the properties or investments themselves. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market price of our common shares. For instance, if interest rates rise without an increase in our dividend rate, the market price of our common shares could decrease because potential investors may require a higher dividend yield on our common shares as market rates on interest-bearing securities, such as bonds, rise. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends. Holders of our outstanding Series A preferred shares have dividend, liquidation and other rights that are senior to the rights of the holders of our common shares. Our Board of Trustees has the authority to designate and issue preferred shares with liquidation, dividend and other rights that are senior to those of our common shares. As of December 31, 2010, 2,400,000 shares of our Series A preferred shares were issued and outstanding. The aggregate liquidation preference with respect to the outstanding preferred shares is approximately $60.0 million, and annual dividends on our outstanding preferred shares are approximately $4.8 million. Holders of our Series A preferred shares are entitled to cumulative dividends before any dividends may be declared or set aside on our common shares. Upon our voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, before any payment is made to holders of our common shares, holders of our Series A preferred shares are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid distributions. This will reduce the remaining amount of our assets, if any, available to distribute to holders of our common shares. In addition, holders of our Series A preferred shares have the right to elect two additional trustees to our Board of Trustees whenever dividends are in arrears in an aggregate amount equivalent to six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive. 14 Table of Contents Future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividend distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making additional offerings of equity securities, including classes of preferred or common shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Our preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our shareholders bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their share holdings in us. Future sales of our common shares by IRSA Inversiones y Representaciones Sociedad Anonima, or IRSA, and its affiliates, could depress the market price of our common shares. We cannot predict whether future sales of our common shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our commons shares or the availability of these securities for resale in the open market will decrease the market price of our common shares. Based on information known by us as of March 2, 2011, IRSA and its affiliates beneficially own 18,134,548 common shares, including 5,700,000 common shares issuable by us upon exercise of outstanding options. These shares, which represent approximately 10.7% our common shares outstanding as of March 2, 2011, may be resold by IRSA and its affiliates in the public market pursuant to a shelf registration statement that has become effective under the Securities Act, or pursuant to any available exemption from registration. Sales of a substantial number of common shares by IRSA and its affiliates, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices of the common shares. IRSA and its affiliates beneficially own a significant percentage of our common shares, which could result in significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to the vote of our shareholders. Based on information known by us as of March 2, 2011, IRSA and its affiliates beneficially own approximately 10.7% of our common shares outstanding as of this date. In addition, Real Estate Investment Group, L.P., or REIG, an affiliate of IRSA, has certain preemptive rights to acquire additional shares of beneficial interest. Eduardo Elsztain, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IRSA, also serves on our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, IRSA and its affiliates have significant influence over us and the ownership level of IRSA and its affiliates may discourage or prevent others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. This concentration of ownership may result in decisions affecting us that may not serve the best interest of all shareholders. Our Board of Trustees may issue additional shares that may cause dilution or prevent a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Our Declaration of Trust authorizes the Board of Trustees, without shareholder approval, to: · amend the Declaration of Trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class or series that we have the authority to issue; · cause us to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares; and · classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, including the issuance of additional common shares or preferred shares that have preference rights over the common shares with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters Any one of these events could cause dilution to our common shareholders, delay, deter or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise not be in the best interest of holders of common shares. The Declaration of Trust contains a provision that creates staggered terms for our Board of Trustees. Our Board of Trustees is divided into two classes, the terms of which expire every two years. Trustees of each class are elected for two-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms and each year one class of trustees will be elected by the shareholders. The staggered terms of trustees may delay, deter or prevent a tender offer, a change in control of us or other transaction, even though such a transaction might be in the best interest of the shareholders. Maryland Business Combination Law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended (MGCL), as applicable to REITs, certain “business combinations” (including certain issuances of equity securities) between a Maryland REIT and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust’s shares, or an affiliate thereof, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which such shareholder acquired at least ten percent of the voting power of the trust’s shares. Thereafter, any such business combination must be approved by two super-majority shareholder votes unless, among other conditions, the trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price (as defined in the MGCL) for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. These provisions could delay, deter or prevent a change of control or other transaction in which holders of our equity securities might receive a premium for their shares above then-current market prices or which such shareholders otherwise might believe to be in their best interests. 15 Table of Contents Our Board of Trustees may change our investment and operational policies without a vote of the common shareholders. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions, financing, growth, operations, debt limitation and distributions, are determined by our Board of Trustees. The Trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of the holders of the common shares. Our Board of Trustees and management make decisions on our behalf, and shareholders have limited management rights. Our shareholders have no right or power to take part in our management except through the exercise of voting rights on certain specified matters. The board of trustees is responsible for our management and strategic business direction, and our management is responsible for our day-to-day operations. Certain policies of our board of trustees may not be consistent with the immediate best interests of our shareholders. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAX STATUS If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our dividends will not be deductible to us, and our income will be subject to taxation, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We have operated and intend to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. However, the federal income tax laws governing REITs are extremely complex, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing REITs are limited. Our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our continuing ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income, and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. Moreover, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year and did not qualify for certain statutory relief provisions, we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to our shareholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of, and trading prices for, our shares. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost. As a result, amounts available for distribution to shareholders would be reduced for each of the years involved. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Trustees, with the consent of holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares, to revoke our REIT election. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax, which would reduce the cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our actual distributions in any year are less than the sum of: · 85% of our REIT ordinary income for that year; · 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for that year; and · 100% of our undistributed taxable income required to be distributed from prior years. We have distributed, and intend to continue to distribute, our income to our shareholders in a manner intended to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. In the past we have borrowed, and in the future we may borrow, to pay distributions to our shareholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Such borrowings subject us to risks from borrowing as described herein. Additionally, we may, if necessary and allowable, pay taxable dividends of our shares or debt securities to meet the distribution requirements. 16 Table of Contents Under Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, guidance, we may pay taxable dividends of our common shares and cash, in which case shareholders may sell our common shares to pay tax on such dividends, placing downward pressure on the market price of our common shares. Under IRS guidance, we may distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and common shares at the election of each shareholder. Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, or the Revenue Procedure, up to 90% of any such taxable dividend paid with respect to our 2011 taxable year could be payable in shares of our common shares. Taxable shareholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for federal income tax purposes. As a result, shareholders may be required to pay income tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. If a U.S. shareholder sells the common shares that it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our common shares at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to certain non-U.S. shareholders, we may be required to withhold federal income tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in common shares. If we utilize the Revenue Procedure and a significant number of our shareholders determine to sell our common shares in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our common shares. We do not currently intend to utilize the Revenue Procedure. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders taxed at individual rates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2012. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are taxed at individual rates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common shares. If the leases of our hotels to our TRSs are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be derived from certain sources, such as “rents from real property.” Rents paid to our operating partnership by our TRSs pursuant to the lease of our hotels constitute substantially all of our gross income. In order for such rent to qualify as “rents from real property” for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will qualify us as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in operating so we can continue to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations, or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of our qualification as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to sell otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements with respect to the character of our assets. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter (by, possibly, selling assets notwithstanding their prospects as an investment) to avoid losing our REIT status. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, and the failure exceeds a de minimis threshold, we may be able to preserve our REIT status if (a) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, (b) we dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which we identified the failure, (c) we file a schedule with the IRS describing each asset that caused the failure, and (d) we pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to engage in transactions, including dispositions of assets, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT's net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may be subject to the prohibited transaction tax upon a disposition of real property. Although a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction is available, we cannot assure you that we can comply with the safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of real property or may conduct such sales through a TRS. 17 Table of Contents Our share ownership limitation may prevent certain transfers of our shares. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities). Our Declaration of Trust prohibits direct or indirect ownership (taking into account applicable ownership provisions of the Internal Revenue Code) of more than (a) 9.9% of the aggregate number of outstanding common shares of any class or series or (b) 9.9% of the aggregate number of outstanding preferred shares of any class or series of outstanding preferred shares by any shareholder or group (the “Ownership Limitation”). Generally, the shares of beneficial interest owned by related or affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the Ownership Limitation. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then prevailing market price or which such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. Any transfer of shares of beneficial interest that would violate the Ownership Limitation, cause us to have fewer than 100 shareholders, cause us to be “closely held” within the meaning of Section 856(h) of the Internal Revenue Code or cause us to own, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the ownership interest in any tenant (other than a TRS) will be void, the intended transferee of such shares will be deemed never to have had an interest in such shares, and such shares will be designated “shares-in-trust.” Further, we will be deemed to have been offered shares-in-trust for purchase at the lesser of the market price (as defined in the Declaration of Trust) on the date we accept the offer and the price per share in the transaction that created such shares-in-trust (or, in the case of a gift, devise or non-transfer event (as defined in the Declaration of Trust), the market price on the date of such gift, devise or non-transfer event). Therefore, the holder of shares of beneficial interest in excess of the Ownership Limitation will experience a financial loss when such shares are purchased by us, if the market price falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption. We have, in limited instances from time to time, permitted certain owners to own shares in excess of the Ownership Limitation. The Board of Trustees has waived the Ownership Limitation for such owners after following procedures set out in our Declaration of Trust, under which the owners requesting the waivers provided certain information and our counsel provided certain legal opinions. These waivers established levels of permissible share ownership for the owners requesting the waivers that are higher than the Ownership Limitation. If the owners acquire shares in excess of the higher limits, those shares are subject to the risks described above in the absence of further waivers. The Board of Trustees is not obligated to grant such waivers and has no current intention to do so with respect to any owners who (individually or aggregated as the Declaration of Trust requires) do not currently own shares in excess of the Ownership Limitation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 