Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry, which is the industry on which we focus. We focus on the financial services industry, which experienced unprecedented change and volatility in 2008. Several banks and securities firms in the United States and elsewhere have failed outright or have been acquired by other financial institutions, often in distressed sales. In the United States, where our principal businesses are conducted, declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have adversely affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in material writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, banks, securities firms and insurers. These writedowns have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, either from the private markets at substantial discounts from previously reported stock prices or from the U.S. government sponsored “TARP” program, which also involves significant dilutive equity issues and additional regulatory oversight and restrictions. Concern about the stability of financial markets and the strength of counterparties has caused many traditional sources of credit, such as banks, securities firms and insurers, as well as institutional and private investors, to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. The U.S. government has adopted and proposed numerous measures in an attempt to stabilize the financial markets and recapitalize major financial institutions. Despite substantial efforts by the U.S. and other governments to restore confidence and reopen sources of credit, it is not possible to predict the extent to which such measures will prove successful. The injection of a significant amount of equity capital into the U.S. financial industry by the Treasury may change or delay the plans of our clients to conduct capital markets transactions and may delay or slow consolidation in the industry. This factor and/or a continuation or worsening of current conditions may cause us to face some or all of the following risks: • The number of M&A transactions where we act as adviser could be adversely affected by continued uncertainties in valuations related to asset quality and creditworthiness, volatility in the equity markets and diminished access to financing. Reduced merger consideration because of lower valuations of financial service companies may also reduce our fees to the extent they are based on a percentage of merger consideration. Also, these conditions could increase the execution risk in M&A transactions where we act as an adviser. • Our opportunity to act as underwriter or placement agent in equity and debt offerings could be adversely affected by competing government sources of equity or by volatile equity or debt markets. • We may experience losses in securities trading activities or as a result of write downs in the value of securities that we own as a result of deteriorations in the businesses or creditworthiness of the issuers of such securities. • We may incur unexpected costs or losses as a result of the bankruptcy or other failure of companies for which we have performed investment banking services to honor ongoing obligations such as indemnification or expense reimbursement agreements. • Any plans for expansion outside of the United States of our client base or the services we provide, including through our existing United Kingdom (“UK”) subsidiary, may be delayed or impaired. • Competition in our investment banking, sales and trading businesses could intensify as a result of the increasing pressures on financial services companies. • Our industry could face increased regulation as a result of legislative or regulatory initiatives, and the responsibilities of the SEC and other federal agencies may be reallocated. • Government intervention may not succeed in stabilizing the financial and credit markets and may have negative consequences for our business. 11 Table of Contents Current and future government intervention in the financial and credit markets may alter the industry and have negative consequences for our business and may diminish the opportunities available to us. In 2008, the U.S. and foreign governments intervened to an unprecedented degree in the financial and credit markets. Among other things, U.S. government regulators have encouraged, and in some cases structured and provided financial assistance for, business combinations among banks, securities firms, insurers and other financial companies. Additional intervention programs have been adopted and proposed which will have a further impact on the industry and related securities markets. Many of the recently enacted or proposed government measures are far-reaching and without historical precedent. Furthermore, the U.S. government has stated its willingness to implement additional measures as it may see fit to address changes in market conditions. There can be no assurance that any or all of these measures will succeed in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Some of the current or future government measures may have negative consequences for our business and may diminish the opportunities available to us. For example, government support to or assistance for troubled financial services companies may reduce potential M&A opportunities, and government purchases of equity positions in financial companies may satisfy or reduce the immediate need for such companies to engage in other capital-raising transactions or make such companies less attractive candidates for capital raising transactions in the private sector. The terms on which the government may provide support, such as the requirement for issuance of warrants or limitations on the ability to increase dividends or conduct buy backs, may also diminish the economic benefits available to other potential investors in future private sector transactions. In addition, to the extent uncertainty may exist regarding the impact or scope of government measures on specific companies, such companies may be limited in their ability to proceed with recapitalization or restructuring proposals or other alternatives until such uncertainty is removed. As many of these government initiatives have only recently been implemented or have yet to be implemented, we cannot currently foresee or prepare for all the consequences of these initiatives. Lack of sufficient liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Historically, we have satisfied our need for funding from internally generated funds, sales of shares of our common stock to our employees and to the public in our initial public offering and short term loans from third parties. As a result of the low level of leverage which we have traditionally employed in our business model, we have not been forced to significantly curtail our business activities as a result of lack of credit sources and we believe that our capital resources are currently sufficient to continue to support our current business activities. In the event existing internal and external financial resources did not satisfy our needs, we might have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial condition and results of operations, the availability of acceptable collateral, market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us. Difficulty in determining the fair value of financial instruments under current market conditions. We maintain inventories of securities as a market maker of equity and fixed income securities. We also hold various trust preferred and debt securities issued by financial institutions which were purchased for inclusion in future pools of such securities in our PreTSLtm product. Under current market conditions, we are no longer able to pool such securities into a collateralized debt structure and have been forced to retain such securities or dispose of them in sales at available prices. In addition we make investments in various privately placed securities, including restricted debt and equity securities and interests in certain private investment partnerships or similar entities. Certain of these securities are highly illiquid due to their inherent nature or contractual or other restrictions on resale. In the present market environment, even the markets for transferable instruments have become substantially more illiquid. As a result, the valuation of such securities held for inclusion in future pools, held in our secondary market trading inventory or held for investment is complex and involves a 12 Table of Contents comprehensive process, including, in the case of certain securities or tranches of pooled securities, the use of unobservable inputs to valuation techniques and management judgment. Valuation of these securities will also continue to be influenced by external market and other factors, including implementation of recent SEC and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) guidance on fair value accounting, issuer specific credit deteriorations and deferral and default rates, rating agency actions, and the prices at which observable market transactions occur. The current market environment significantly limits our ability to mitigate our exposures by selling or hedging our exposures. Our future results of operations and financial condition may continue to be adversely affected by changes in the value to our portfolio of these securities. For a further discussion regarding the valuation of financial instruments owned see Note 3, “Financial Instruments,” to our consolidated financial statements. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. We have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty at the present time. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. As an introducing broker to clearing firms, we are responsible to the clearing firm and could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we review credit exposures to specific clients, customers and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. In addition to our credit risks described above, we are subject to various market, interest rate, inflation and operational risks, including those described under “— Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry, which is the industry on which we focus,” “— Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail,” “— Committing our own capital in our underwriting, trading and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses,” and “— We may be adversely affected by changes in services and products provided by third parties and increases in related costs.” While we attempt to mitigate these risks through our risk management policies, if any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur significant losses. See Item 7A — “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk.” 13 Table of Contents Committing our own capital in our underwriting, trading and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. We have occasionally invested in our clients’ capital markets transactions. In certain cases, there may be contractual “lock-up” periods limiting our ability to immediately liquidate our investments. In addition, occasionally we have been asked, with little or no advance marketing to commit our capital to “bought deals” where we purchase large blocks of stock from publicly-traded issuers or their significant stockholders, instead of the more traditional marketed “book building” underwriting process, in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. It is common for financial institutions in Europe to use rights offerings in order to raise capital. Rights offerings are also occasionally used by U.S. financial institutions as well. We have acted as a standby underwriter in such offerings and may do so in the future, especially through Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Limited in Europe, which requires a commitment over an extended period of time during the rights period. The current uncertainties for values of securities of financial service companies makes such practices riskier than in more stable periods. We may incur losses relating to these transactions. We also enter into market making, proprietary trading and principal investing transactions in which we commit our capital. The number and size of these transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. We maintain trading positions in the fixed income and equity markets to facilitate client trading activities and engage in proprietary trading for our own account. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. There is a significant risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may materially adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our ability to obtain and successfully execute the business mandates that generate a significant portion of our revenues depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our professionals. Although we do not believe that any one or small number of professionals are critical to our business, our business model is based on the building of long term relationships and our professionals’ personal reputations and relationships with our clients and customers are a critical element in obtaining and executing our engagements. Historically, the investment banking sector has been subject to high employee turnover generally. We have historically encountered intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking sector as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. From time to time, we have experienced losses of investment banking, sales and trading, research and other professionals. Losses of our professionals may occur in the future. The departure or other loss of any professional who manages substantial client or customer relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We face strong competition, including from entities with significantly more financial and other resources. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the ability of our professionals, industry expertise, client relationships, business reputation, market focus and quality and price of our products and services. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular trading commissions and underwriting spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book-runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues, even as transaction volume has increased in the U.S. market this year. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Our geographic diversity requires us to compete with regional firms with strong localized relationships as well as other national and European specialized firms with financial industry focuses. In addition, we have faced competition from large full-service firms as the scope of our practice has grown and as such firms have sought revenues from our traditional client base. We are a relatively small investment bank, and many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries offer a broader range of products and services, have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, larger numbers of senior professionals to serve their clients’ needs and greater global coverage than we have. These competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, to commit significant capital to clients’ needs, to access additional capital under more advantageous conditions and to compete for market share generally. A number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, historically, the ability to provide debt financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors and, because we do not provide such financing, we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The impact of the current market and regulatory environment on trading customers may adversely affect our sales and trading commission revenues. A relatively small number of our institutional investor customers generate a substantial portion of our sales commissions. If any of our key customers departs or reduces its business with us and we fail to attract new customers that are capable of generating significant trading volumes, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In the UK, equity commissions have been adversely affect by decreases in share prices because commissions are charged based on the value of shares traded. Such UK commissions will continue to be negatively impacted by low share prices. A large number of our institutional investor sales and trading customers are also financial institutions, including hedge funds, banks, insurance companies and institutional money managers. The majority of transactions conducted with us relate to financial services companies. Many of our customers have suffered declines in their assets under management and such clients and others have reduced the amount of leverage used, resulting in such clients holding smaller position sizes. The current market environment may cause some of these companies to curtail their investment activities or even cease to do business, which may reduce our commissions. 15 Table of Contents Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our sales and trading business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our sales and trading business. Commissions accounted for approximately 79.6%, 38.8% and 28.7%, respectively, of our revenues in the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. Along with other securities firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically, through the Internet and through other alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect this trend toward alternative trading systems and pricing pressures in this business to continue. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to customers in order to win their trading business. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors in these areas, the revenues and profitability of our securities business may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. As we are committed to maintaining and improving our comprehensive research coverage in the financial services sector to support our sales and trading business, we may be required to make substantial investments in our research capabilities. In addition to other factors that may adversely affect our results of operations in this area, such as the legal and regulatory factors described under “— Risks Related to Our Industry,” certain recent changes in industry practice are likely to affect our sales and trading business. A developing trend has been for certain fund managers to enter into arrangements with securities firms under which the fund managers agree to pay separately for trading and research services, a process known as “unbundling.” Previously, fund managers, like most customers, paid for research through the commissions that they paid for trading services. As a result of unbundling, securities firms charge lower commissions per trade but receive separate compensation for research that they provide to the fund managers. We are a party to several unbundling arrangements, and are likely to enter into additional unbundling arrangements in the future. It is uncertain whether unbundling arrangements will become a further industry trend, and if so, to what extent. If unbundling becomes prevalent, our sales and trading customers may not pay us separately for our research, and if they do, our revenues from these customers may not be the same as they are currently. If our customers wish to purchase sales and trading and research services separately, we may not be able to market our services on that basis as effectively as some of our competitors, in which case our business could be adversely affected. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or M&A transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Our business model is based on creating long-term relationships that we hope will lead to repeat business opportunities. However, our engagements for these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur. We must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from the successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems 16 Table of Contents to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. We are also dependent on the systems and operations of our clearing brokers in the United States and the United Kingdom. If any of our systems or the systems of clearing brokers do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our or their internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize confidential and other information of us or our clients, customers or counterparties that is processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or those of our clients, customers, counterparties or other third parties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We may be adversely affected by changes in services and products provided by third parties and increases in related costs. Many of our sales, trading and information systems are provided pursuant to agreements with third party vendors. Although we seek to negotiate agreements with these vendors to obtain such services on reasonable terms, we cannot always negotiate terms which will provide us such services for terms or at prices that are not subject to significant change. The process of changing to competing services or products can be time consuming, costly and subject to implementation and operational risks. In certain cases replacement products or services may not be available and we may be forced to accept significant cost increases or seek alternatives that do not provide substantially identical functionality. Our financial results may fluctuate substantially from period to period, which may impair our stock price. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our investment banking revenues. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client’s acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon 17 Table of Contents final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or approval, or board of director or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client’s or counterparty’s business. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. As a result, we are unlikely to achieve steady and predictable earnings on a quarterly basis, which could in turn adversely affect our stock price. Poor investment performance may reduce revenues and profitability of our asset management operations. Our revenues in our asset management business are primarily derived from management fees which are based on committed capital and/or assets under management and incentive fees, which are earned if the return of our managed accounts exceeds certain threshold returns. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, market or economic conditions, competition from other fund managers and our ability to negotiate terms with major investors. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing investors and competing for new asset management business. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenues and impair our growth. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by our investment style and the particular investments that we make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenues of our asset management business will likely be reduced and our ability to raise new funds will likely be impaired. Strategic investments, acquisitions, entry into new businesses and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses primarily through internal expansion. We may also seek to grow through strategic investments, acquisitions, entry into new businesses or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, or enter into new businesses or joint ventures, we would face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. In the case of joint ventures, we would be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we could be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any joint venture partners could negatively impact our businesses. We may also face conflicts to the extent that we sponsor the development of other business and commit to provide personnel, capital or benefits from our business relationships to such other businesses. To the extent we enter into new business activities in the future, these will involve significant start up costs and operational and staffing challenges. In addition, these activities may use a portion of the time of members of our management which would then be unavailable for the management of our existing businesses. Certain possible future business activities may require us to raise significant amounts of capital or to obtain other lending sources which efforts may be subject to market conditions at the time. To the extent we undertake new activities, they may not be successful and any investments we make in these new activities may not retain their value or achieve positive returns. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. 18 Table of Contents Growth of our business could result in increased costs. Over the past several years, we have experienced significant growth in our business activities, including launching European-focused operations and opening a London office. This growth has required and will continue to require increased investment in management personnel, financial and management systems and controls and facilities, which, in the absence of continued revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. As we have grown and continue to grow, the need for additional compliance, documentation and risk management procedures and internal controls has increased throughout our business. Implementation of these changes will require the incurrence of additional expenses, including the hiring of additional personnel and the adoption of new compliance procedures and controls. The implementation of such additional policies and procedures may not prevent us from experiencing a material loss or other liability, including regulatory sanction. In addition, we may incur significant expenses in connection with any expansion of our investment banking, sales and trading, research and asset management businesses or in connection with any strategic acquisitions and investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. If our revenues do not increase sufficiently, or even if our revenues increase but we are unable to manage our expenses, we will not achieve and maintain profitability in future periods. In the investment banking industry, the entry into new service lines or areas of business often involves the attraction and retention of outside personnel deemed to be critical components to the success of such expansion efforts. Such outside personnel may be employed by competitors, and therefore the retention of such individuals may require us to enter into guaranteed compensation contracts for a period following commencement of employment. The compensation terms provided for in such contracts may be fixed in whole or in part. Any guaranteed compensation expenses that cannot be adjusted based on the success or profitability of either such area of growth or our firm as a whole, could reduce our operating margins. Such fixed compensation expenses may also materially impact the levels and amounts of compensation for our employees without such guaranteed contracts, which in turn could have a negative impact on our retention efforts for such employees. See “— Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may materially adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations.” Investments by our directors, officers, employees and our employee profit sharing retirement plan may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and employees and our employee profit sharing retirement plan may from time to time invest in or receive a profit interest in private or public companies in which we or one of our affiliates is an investor or for which we provide investment banking services, publish research or act as a market maker. In addition, through KBW Asset Management, we have organized hedge funds or similar investment vehicles in which our employees are or may become investors and we expect to continue to do so in the future. There is a risk that, as a result of such investment or profit interest, a director, officer or employee may take actions that conflict with the best interests of our stockholders. Our tax-qualified employee profit sharing retirement plan offers employees the opportunity to choose among a number of investment alternatives. One of these, the KBW Fund, has been managed by certain employees and has invested in securities in which we and our customers and employees may also invest. Substantially all of our employees who have been employed by us for at least three months are participants in the plan. A substantial portion of the plan investments are currently invested in the KBW Fund. Historically, the KBW Fund has invested in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities of financial services companies, and we expect that this policy will continue. Some or all of the employees managing the KBW Fund are participants in the plans investing in the KBW Fund, and are also holders of shares of our common stock. It is our intention, after satisfaction of customer interest in investments, to continue to provide suitable investment opportunities to the KBW Fund consistent with the management policies of the plan fiduciaries and applicable law (including, without limitation, the fiduciary responsibility requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”)). Accordingly, from time to time, there may 19 Table of Contents be cases in which an investment opportunity is made available to the employee profit sharing retirement plan which is not also made available to us (or in which availability is limited) as principal. Our policies and procedures may limit the investment opportunities for our company. We have in place compliance procedures and practices designed to protect the confidentiality of client and customer information and to ensure that inside information is not used for making our investment decisions. These procedures and practices may from time to time exceed legal requirements and may limit the freedom of our employees to make potentially profitable investments for us. Moreover, certain rules, such as best execution rules, and fiduciary obligations to customers and our profit-sharing plan under ERISA and other applicable law, may cause us to forego certain investment opportunities. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a holding company, we may require dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. In addition, because we hold equity interests in our subsidiaries, our rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries are subordinated to any claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries had any long term indebtedness to any third party. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulatory net capital requirements. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the net capital requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. At this time we have significant capital in excess of these requirements. There are similar financial requirements of the Financial Services Authority (“FSA”) in the United Kingdom related to the activities of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Limited. Furthermore, the U.S. and U.K. broker dealer subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from them to our company. Risks Related to Our Industry Risks associated with regulatory impact on capital markets. Highly-publicized financial scandals in recent years have led to investor concerns over the integrity of the U.S. financial markets, and have prompted Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA to significantly expand corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting, capitalization, risk management, executive compensation, disclosure and other potential rules and regulations that may be enacted in response to the crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, and as part of the implementation of various government initiatives, may also have an adverse effect on our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. Firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years from a variety of regulators, including the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA, state securities commissions and state attorneys general. FINRA was created in July 2007 through the consolidation of the NASD and the member regulation, enforcement and arbitration functions of the NYSE. The activities of our UK subsidiary, Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Limited, are subject to regulation by the FSA which has continued to refine and expand the scope of 20 Table of Contents its regulations of the financial services industry. Our UK business has experienced significant expansion over a relatively short period, which requires us to devote increasing resources to our compliance efforts and subjects us to additional regulatory risks in the UK. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Our failure to comply or have complied with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client or customer litigation. The effort to combat money laundering and terrorist financing is a priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. Asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries concerning market timing, late trading and other activities that focus on the mutual fund industry. These inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, investment advisers and broker-dealers. Although we do not act as an investment adviser to mutual funds, the regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties against our asset management business, and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal or regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for “fairness opinions” and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also potentially subject to claims arising from disputes with employees. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude 21 Table of Contents often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of certain legal matters applicable to us. We depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients and customers. As a result, if a client or customer is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or M&A transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering “fairness opinions” in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony in connection with litigation may require incurrence of significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. These costs may be incurred even if we are not a target of the inquiry or a party to litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases, and we may suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. Risks Related to Our Shares We are controlled by our employee stockholders whose interests may differ from those of other stockholders. Our employees collectively own a majority of the total shares of common stock entitled to vote and our executive officers collectively own approximately 8% of such shares of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. The percentage of employee holdings may increase as result of the practice since our IPO of paying a portion of annual bonuses to certain employees in the form of restricted stock. Although the Stockholders’ Agreement between the Company and certain employee stockholders does not contain any provisions regarding the voting of common stock owned by any of our employees, a relatively small group of employees may be able to elect our entire board of directors, control our management and policies and, in general, determine without the consent of the other stockholders the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such persons initially will be able to prevent or cause a change in control of our company. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of our company. Our organizational documents contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire our company. For example, our board of directors may, without the consent of stockholders, issue preferred stock with greater voting rights than the common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors divided into three classes, which may impede the removal of existing directors following a change of control. If a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Other provisions of our organizational 22 Table of Contents documents and Delaware corporate law impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our employees and other stockholders, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. As of February 17, 2009, 14,151,454 shares of common stock are subject to sale restrictions set forth in our Stockholders’ Agreement, which generally restricts sales of common stock through the fifth anniversary of our IPO in November 2011. As of February 17, 2009, 4,804,027 unvested IPO Restricted Stock Awards, Bonus Restricted Stock Awards and restricted stock awards granted as part of our hiring process also remain outstanding. Generally trading restrictions under the Stockholders Agreement are removed on 25% of the shares covered at the time of our IPO on each of the second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the IPO. Restrictions on trading IPO Restricted Stock Awards terminate upon vesting of 25% on the second anniversary of the IPO, 35% on the third anniversary and 40% on the fourth anniversary. One third of the Bonus Restricted Shares generally are freed from trading restrictions on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of their issuance (usually in February of each year). Sales of shares of common stock by our officers and employees upon the lapsing of these sale restrictions may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and restrict our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. These various restrictions may be changed by the Board of Directors. We currently have on file with the SEC an effective “universal” shelf registration statement on form S-3, which enables us or our stockholders to sell, from time to time, our common stock and other securities covered by the registration statement in one or more public offerings. Our status under the securities laws as a “well-known seasoned issuer” enables us, among other things, to enter the public markets and consummate sales off the shelf registration statement in rapid fashion and with little or no notice. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, you must rely on sales of your shares of common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains in your investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 