Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Uncertain economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an impact on the financial services industry, which is the industry on which we focus. We focus on the financial services industry, which has experienced unprecedented change and volatility in recent years. Although the risk of failures of large financial institutions in the U.S. has abated, the financial services industry remains subject to significant pressures. There remain substantial uncertainties, particularly in the area of sovereign risk and its potential impact on the financial services sector in Europe. The economic uncertainties affecting the financial industry may cause us to face some or all of the following risks: •The number of M&A transactions where we act as adviser could continue to be adversely affected by continued uncertainties in valuations related to asset quality and creditworthiness, volatility in the equity markets and difficulties in obtaining financing, any or all of which could delay or slow consolidation in the financial services industry and increase the execution risk in M&A transactions where we act as an adviser. •Reduced merger consideration because of lower valuations of financial service companies may also reduce our fees to the extent they are based on a percentage of merger consideration and, 11 Table of Contents to the extent we attempt to mitigate this reduction by implementing new fee structures, we may encounter difficulties in gaining market acceptance for such alternative structures. •Our opportunity to act as underwriter or placement agent in equity and debt offerings could be adversely affected if our clients change or delay their plans to conduct capital markets transactions. •We may experience losses in securities trading and investment activities or as a result of write downs in the value of financial instruments that we own, due to deteriorations in the businesses or creditworthiness of the issuers of such financial instruments. •We may incur unexpected costs or losses as a result of the bankruptcy or other failure of companies for which we have performed sales and trading or investment banking services to honor ongoing obligations such as settlement obligations relating to securities transactions and indemnification or expense reimbursement agreements. •Competition in our investment banking, sales and trading businesses could intensify as a result of increasing consolidation, which could assist both competitors with greater resources and product and service offerings, as well as smaller and more specialized competitors that seek to capture a portion of our market share. Recent new legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect our business. Recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry, both in the United States and in other countries where we do business. These new measures include limitations on the types of activities in which certain financial institutions may engage. These legislative and regulatory initiatives will affect not only us, but also our competitors and certain of our clients and customers. These changes could eventually have an effect on our revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that the new legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. Failure to comply with new or existing legislation and regulations that apply to our operations may subject us to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our business. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and taxes and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. We cannot fully predict the impact of U.K. bank regulation reform on our business. In June 2010, the U.K. government announced the breakup of its chief financial regulator, the Financial Services Authority, into separate agencies. As currently contemplated, the government's plan is to transfer prudential supervision for banks, insurers and major investment firms to a subsidiary of the Bank of England, the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA), and to rename the FSA the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which will focus on consumer protection and market regulation. The intention is that the 'twin peaks' style regulatory model will be up and running in early 2013. The FSA recently announced the implementation of a transition step during the remainder of the FSA's remaining time as a regulator where it is introducing an FSA of a 'twin peaks' model designed to deliver, as far as possible, a model that will replicate that to be adopted by the PRA and FCA. It is unclear what the ultimate effect this reform will have on our business in the U.K. This reform may 12 Table of Contents result in calls to increase capital and to impose new liquidity requirements, and may impose other additional obligations and taxes on our U.K. operations. As a result, these changes could adversely affect our revenue, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, negatively impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain of our business practices, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our U.K. businesses. Lack of sufficient liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Historically, we have satisfied our need for funding with revenue from our operating and financing activities. As a result of the low level of leverage which we have traditionally employed in our business model, we have not been forced to significantly curtail our business activities and we believe that our capital resources are currently sufficient to continue to support our current business activities. In the event existing financial resources did not satisfy our needs, we might have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial condition and results of operations, the availability of acceptable collateral, market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities take significant action against us. Our liquidity and profitability could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. Even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may create market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Although we have not suffered any material or significant losses as a result of the failure of any financial counterparty, any such losses may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risks. Our risk management strategies and techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure, breach of contract or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. As an introducing broker to clearing firms, we are responsible to the clearing firm and could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we review credit exposures to specific clients, customers and counterparties and to specific industries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. In addition to our credit risks described above, we are subject to various market, interest rate, inflation and operational risks, including those described under "—Uncertain economic conditions have had, and may continue to have, an impact on the financial services industry, which is the industry on which we focus," "—Committing our own capital in our underwriting, trading and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses," "—Our operations and infrastructure may 13 Table of Contents malfunction or fail," and "—We may be adversely affected by changes in services and products provided by third parties and increases in related costs." While we attempt to mitigate these risks through our risk management policies, if any of the variety of instruments, processes and strategies we utilize to manage our exposure to various types of risk are not effective, we may incur significant losses. See Item 7A—"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." Committing our own capital in our underwriting, trading and other businesses increases the potential for significant losses. We have at times invested in our clients' capital markets transactions. In certain cases, there may be contractual "lock-up" periods limiting our ability to immediately liquidate our investments. In addition, occasionally we have committed our capital to "bought deals," which involve the purchase of large blocks of stock from publicly-traded issuers or their significant stockholders with little or no advance marketing for the sale of such securities, instead of the more traditional marketed "book building" underwriting process, in which marketing is typically completed before an investment bank commits to purchase securities for resale. It is common for financial institutions in Europe and Asia to use rights offerings in order to raise capital. Rights offerings are also occasionally used by U.S. financial institutions as well. We have also acted as a standby underwriter in such offerings and may do so in the future, especially through our operating subsidiary in Europe, which requires a commitment over an extended period of time during the rights period. We also enter into market making and principal investing transactions in which we commit our capital. The number and size of these transactions may materially affect our results of operations in a given period. We may also incur significant losses from our trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. We maintain trading positions in the fixed income and equity markets to facilitate client trading activities and engage in principal trading for our own account. To the extent that we own assets, i.e., have long positions, in any of those markets, a downturn in those markets which negatively affects the value of those assets could result in losses. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own, i.e., have short positions, in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to potentially unlimited losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. We have made and may continue to make principal investments in private equity funds and other illiquid investments, which are typically private limited partnership interests and securities that are not publicly traded. There is a significant risk that we may be unable to realize our investment objectives by sale or other disposition at attractive prices or that we may otherwise be unable to complete any exit strategy. In particular, these risks could arise from changes in the financial condition or prospects of the portfolio companies in which investments are made, changes in national or international economic conditions or changes in laws, regulations, fiscal policies or political conditions of countries in which investments are made. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities and then to realize the cash value of such investments through resale. Even if a private equity investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years or longer before any profits can be realized in cash. Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may materially adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Our ability to obtain and successfully execute the business mandates that generate a significant portion of our revenues depends upon the personal reputation, judgment, business generation capabilities and project execution skills of our professionals. Our business model is based on the building of long term relationships and our professionals' personal reputations and relationships with our clients and customers are a critical element in obtaining and executing our engagements. Historically, the investment banking sector has been subject to high employee turnover generally. We 14 Table of Contents have encountered intense competition for qualified employees from other companies in the investment banking sector as well as from businesses outside the investment banking industry, such as hedge funds, private equity funds and venture capital funds. From time to time, we have experienced losses of investment banking, sales and trading, research and other professionals. Losses of our professionals may occur in the future. The departure or other loss of any professional who manages substantial client or customer relationships and possesses substantial experience and expertise could impair our ability to secure or successfully complete engagements, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face strong competition, including from entities with significantly more financial and other resources. The brokerage and investment banking industries are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including the ability of our professionals, industry expertise, client relationships, business reputation, market focus and quality and price of our products and services. We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses, in particular trading commissions and underwriting spreads. In addition, pricing and other competitive pressures in investment banking, including the trends toward multiple book-runners, co-managers and multiple financial advisors handling transactions, have continued and could adversely affect our revenues, even as transaction volume increases in the U.S. market. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. Our geographic diversity requires us to compete with regional firms with strong localized relationships as well as other national and multi-national firms with a financial industry focus. In addition, we have faced competition from large full-service firms as the scope of our practice has grown and as such firms have sought revenues from our traditional client base. Many of our competitors in the brokerage and investment banking industries offer a broader range of products and services, have greater financial and marketing resources, larger customer bases, greater name recognition, larger numbers of senior professionals to serve their clients' needs and greater global coverage than we have. These competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the brokerage and investment banking industries, to compete for skilled professionals, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, to commit significant capital to clients' needs, to access additional capital under more advantageous conditions and to compete for market share generally. A number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services firms have established or acquired underwriting or financial advisory practices and broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. These firms have the ability to offer a wider range of products than we do, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services in an effort to gain market share, which has resulted, and could further result, in pricing pressure in our businesses. In particular, the ability to provide debt financing has become an important advantage for some of our larger competitors, and because we do not provide such financing we may be unable to compete as effectively for clients in a significant part of the brokerage and investment banking market. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The impact of the current market environment on trading customers may adversely affect our sales and trading commission revenues. A relatively small number of our institutional investor customers generate a substantial portion of our sales commissions. If any of our key customers departs or reduces its business with us and we fail to attract new customers that are capable of generating significant trading volumes, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. In the U.K., equity commissions have been adversely 15 Table of Contents affect by decreases in share prices because commissions are charged based on the value of shares traded. Such U.K. commissions may continue to be negatively impacted by low share prices. A large number of our institutional investor sales and trading customers are also financial institutions, including hedge funds, banks, insurance companies and institutional money managers. Many of our customers have suffered declines in their assets under management and such clients and others have reduced the amount of leverage used, resulting in such clients holding smaller position sizes. The current market environment may cause some of these companies to curtail their investment activities or even cease to do business, which may reduce our commissions. Pricing and other competitive pressures may impair the revenues and profitability of our sales and trading business. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our sales and trading business. Commissions accounted for approximately 48%, 31% and 37%, respectively, of our revenues in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Along with other securities firms, we have experienced intense price competition in this business in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute trades electronically, through the internet and through other alternative trading systems, has increased the pressure on trading commissions and spreads. We expect this trend toward alternative trading systems and pricing pressures in this business to continue. We believe we may experience competitive pressures in these and other as some of our competitors seek to obtain market share by competing on the basis of price. In addition, we face pressure from our larger competitors, which may be better able to offer a broader range of complementary products and services to customers in order to win their trading business. In addition, our sustained commitment to maintaining and improving our comprehensive research coverage in the financial services sector to support our sales and trading business may require us to make substantial investments in our research capabilities, further pressuring our profit margins. If we are unable to compete effectively with our competitors in these areas, the revenues and profitability of our securities business may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our capital markets and strategic advisory engagements are singular in nature and do not generally provide for subsequent engagements. Our investment banking clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific capital markets or M&A transactions, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Our business model is based on creating long-term relationships that we hope will lead to repeat business opportunities. However, our engagements for these transactions are typically singular in nature and our engagements with these clients may not recur. We must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated. As a result, high activity levels in any period are not necessarily indicative of continued high levels of activity in any subsequent period. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements that generate fees from the successful completion of transactions, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Our financial, accounting or other data processing systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, including a disruption of electrical or communications services or our inability to occupy one or more of our buildings. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Furthermore, we are dependent on the systems and operations of our 16 Table of Contents clearing brokers in the United States and the United Kingdom. If any of our systems or the systems of clearing brokers do not operate properly or are disabled or if there are other shortcomings or failures in our or their internal processes, people or systems, we could suffer impairment to our liquidity, financial loss, and disruption of our businesses, liability exposure, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. Any such failure or termination could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions and to manage our exposure to risk. In addition, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to fire, other natural disaster, power or communications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise. Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations work in close proximity to each other. If a disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that location are unable to communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer and we may not be able to implement successfully contingency plans that depend on communication or travel. Our operations also rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events occur, this could jeopardize confidential and other information of us or our clients, customers or counterparties that is processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks. Furthermore, such events could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or those of our clients, customers, counterparties or other third parties. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. We may be adversely affected by changes in services and products provided by third parties and increases in related costs. Many of our sales, trading and information systems are provided pursuant to agreements with third party vendors. Although we seek to negotiate agreements with these vendors to obtain such services on reasonable terms, we cannot always negotiate terms which will provide us such services for terms or at prices that are not subject to significant change. The process of changing to competing services or products can be time consuming, costly and subject to implementation and operational risks. In certain cases replacement products or services may not be available and we may be forced to accept significant cost increases or seek alternatives that do not provide substantially identical functionality. Failure to complete investment banking transactions may result in a significant loss of fee-based revenues. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, significant periodic variations in our investment banking revenues. These variations may be attributed in part to the fact that our investment banking revenues are typically earned upon the successful completion of a transaction, the timing of which is uncertain and beyond our control. In most cases we receive little or no payment for investment banking engagements that do not result in the successful completion of a transaction. As a result, our business is highly dependent on market conditions as well as the decisions and actions of 17 Table of Contents our clients and interested third parties. For example, a client's acquisition transaction may be delayed or terminated because of a failure to agree upon final terms with the counterparty, failure to obtain necessary regulatory consents or approval, or board of director or stockholder approvals, failure to secure necessary financing, adverse market conditions or unexpected financial or other problems in the client's or counterparty's business. If the parties fail to complete a transaction on which we are advising or an offering in which we are participating, we will earn little or no revenue from the transaction. Strategic investments, acquisitions, entry into new businesses and joint ventures may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We have sought to grow our core businesses through internal expansion, strategic investments and acquisitions, and entry into new businesses or joint ventures. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, or enter into new businesses or joint ventures, we would face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships with customers and business partners. In the case of joint ventures, we would be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we could be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and any joint venture partners could negatively impact the success of that joint venture as well as our overall business. We may also face conflicts to the extent that we sponsor the development of other business and commit to provide personnel, capital or benefits from our business relationships to such other businesses. New business activities that we may enter into will likely involve significant start up costs and operational and staffing challenges and may occupy a significant portion of management time and resources, which would detract from their availability for the management of our existing businesses. Future business activities may require us to raise significant amounts of capital or to obtain other lending sources, which efforts may be subject to market conditions at the time. To the extent we undertake new activities, they may not be successful and any investments we make in these new activities may not retain their value or achieve positive returns. To the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, we will be subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the securities and financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular foreign market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable in the relevant jurisdictions. Growth of our business could result in increased costs. We may incur significant expenses in connection with any expansion of our existing businesses or in connection with any strategic acquisitions and investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. Our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenues that are derived from such growth. In the investment banking industry, the entry into new service lines or areas of business often involves the attraction and retention of outside personnel deemed to be critical components to the success of such expansion efforts. Such outside personnel may be employed by competitors, and therefore the retention of such individuals may require us to enter into guaranteed compensation 18 Table of Contents contracts for a period following commencement of employment. The compensation terms provided for in such contracts may be fixed in whole or in part. Any guaranteed compensation expenses that cannot be adjusted based on the success or profitability of either such area of growth or our firm as a whole, could reduce our operating margins. Such fixed compensation expenses may also materially impact the levels and amounts of compensation for our employees without such guaranteed contracts, which in turn could have a negative impact on our retention efforts for such employees. See "—Our ability to retain our professionals is critical to the success of our business, and our failure to do so may materially adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations." Over the past several years, we expanded business activities, including our European and Asian operations. These expansion efforts required and, in some cases, will continue to require investment in management personnel, facilities and financial and management systems and controls, all of which, in the absence of sufficient corresponding revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. Expansion also creates a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal controls procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. To the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. Investments by our directors, officers, employees and our employee profit sharing retirement plan may conflict with the interests of our stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and employees and our employee profit sharing retirement plan may from time to time invest in or receive a profit interest in private or public companies in which we or one of our affiliates is an investor or for which we provide investment banking services, publish research or act as a market maker. There is a risk that, as a result of such investment or profit interest, a director, officer or employee may take actions that conflict with the best interests of our stockholders. Our tax-qualified employee profit sharing retirement plan offers employees the opportunity to choose among a number of investment alternatives. One of these, the KBW Fund, has been managed by certain employees and has invested in securities in which we and our customers and employees may also invest. Substantially all of our employees who have been employed by us for at least three months are participants in the plan. A substantial portion of the plan investments are currently invested in the KBW Fund. Historically, the KBW Fund has invested in publicly traded equity and fixed income securities of financial services companies, and we expect that this policy will continue. Some or all of the employees managing the KBW Fund are participants in the plan investing in the KBW Fund, and are also holders of shares of our common stock. It is our intention, after satisfaction of customer interest in investments, to continue to provide suitable investment opportunities to the KBW Fund consistent with the management policies of the plan fiduciaries and applicable law (including, without limitation, the fiduciary responsibility requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA")). Accordingly, from time to time, there may be cases in which an investment opportunity is made available to the employee profit sharing retirement plan which is not also made available to us (or in which availability is limited) as principal. Our policies and procedures may limit the investment opportunities for our company. We have in place compliance procedures and practices designed to protect the confidentiality of client and customer information and to ensure that inside information is not used for making our investment decisions. These procedures and practices may from time to time exceed minimum legal requirements and may limit the freedom of our employees to make potentially profitable investments for us. Moreover, certain rules, such as best execution rules, and fiduciary obligations to customers and 19 Table of Contents our profit-sharing plan under ERISA and other applicable law, may cause us to forego certain investment opportunities. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a holding company, we may require dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. In addition, because we hold equity interests in our subsidiaries, our rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries are subordinated to any claims of any creditors of these subsidiaries. Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulatory net capital requirements. Keefe, Bruyette & Woods, Inc., our U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the net capital requirements of the SEC and various self-regulatory organizations of which it is a member. These requirements typically specify the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also mandate that a significant part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Any failure to comply with these net capital requirements could impair our ability to conduct our core business as a brokerage firm. At this time we have significant capital in excess of these requirements. There are similar financial requirements in the United Kingdom related to the activities of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Limited and the SFC in Hong Kong related to activities of Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia Limited. Furthermore, the U.S., U.K. and Hong Kong broker-dealer subsidiaries are and will be subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from them to our holding company or to our other subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Industry Risks associated with regulatory impact on capital markets. In recent years the U.S. Congress, the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA have significantly expanded corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. To the extent that private companies, in order to avoid becoming subject to these new requirements, decide to forgo initial public offerings, our equity underwriting business may be adversely affected. These factors, in addition to adopted or proposed accounting, capitalization, risk management, executive compensation, disclosure and other potential rules and regulations that may be enacted either as part of the implementation of various government initiatives or otherwise, may also adversely affect our business. Financial services firms have been subject to increased scrutiny over the last several years, increasing the risk of financial liability and reputational harm resulting from adverse regulatory actions. Firms in the financial services industry have experienced increased scrutiny in recent years from a variety of U.S. regulators, including the SEC, the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and other federal regulatory agencies, and the NYSE and FINRA, state securities commissions and state attorneys general. 20 Table of Contents Regulators overseeing our U.K. subsidiary have continued to refine and expand the scope of regulations of financial services companies subject to their jurisdiction. Similarly, the activities of our Hong King subsidiary are subject to regulation by the SFC in Hong Kong. Unlike the system governing much of Europe which has generally deferred regulation to the home jurisdiction and allowed U.K. investment firms to operate in much of Europe, the Asia system does not provide for a similar cooperative approach. As a result, we may incur additional regulatory oversight as our Asian activities expand to other jurisdictions. Our U.K. and Asia businesses have experienced significant expansion over a relatively short period, which requires us to devote increasing resources to our compliance efforts and subjects us to additional regulatory risks. Penalties and fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the last several years. This regulatory and enforcement environment has created uncertainty with respect to a number of transactions that had historically been entered into by financial services firms and that were generally believed to be permissible and appropriate. We may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. We also may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of us or any of our subsidiaries. Even if a sanction imposed against us or our personnel is small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity arising from the imposition of sanctions against us by regulators could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing clients or fail to gain new clients. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business prospects. In addition, financial services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interests or perceived conflicts. The SEC and other federal and state regulators and foreign regulators have increased their scrutiny of potential conflicts of interest. We have adopted various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. Our policies and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts may also result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client or customer litigation. The effort to combat money laundering and terrorist financing is a priority in governmental policy with respect to financial institutions. The obligation of financial institutions, including ourselves, to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls which have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs. Regulators have also stepped up regulation and enforcement to catch and punish bribery or similar corrupt practices by financial institutions. The U.K. Bribery Act has the potential to capture activities on a global scale involving not just government bribery but commercial bribery as well and significantly expands on the scope of regulation under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Any failure with respect to our programs in this area could subject us to serious regulatory consequences, including substantial fines, and potentially other liabilities. Asset management businesses have experienced a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries concerning insider trading and other activities that focus on asset managers. These inquiries have resulted in increased scrutiny within the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds, 21 Table of Contents investment advisers and broker-dealers. Regulatory scrutiny and rulemaking initiatives may result in an increase in operational and compliance costs or the assessment of significant fines or penalties and may otherwise limit our ability to engage in certain activities. Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal or regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, potential liability for "fairness opinions" and other advice we provide to participants in strategic transactions and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. We are also potentially subject to claims arising from disputes with employees. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See Item 3—"Legal Proceedings" for a further discussion of certain legal matters applicable to us. We depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients and customers. As a result, if a client or customer is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Moreover, our role as advisor to our clients on important underwriting or M&A transactions involves complex analysis and the exercise of professional judgment, including rendering "fairness opinions" in connection with mergers and other transactions. Therefore, our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties, including shareholders of our clients who could bring securities class actions against us. Our investment banking engagements typically include broad indemnities from our clients and provisions to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be enforceable in all cases. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony in connection with litigation may require incurrence of significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. These costs may be incurred even if we are not a target of the inquiry or a party to litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases, and we may suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. Risks Related to Our Shares Our employee stockholders, who together control a substantial portion of our outstanding stock, may have interests that oppose or differ from those of other stockholders. Our employees collectively own a substantial portion of the total shares of common stock entitled to vote and our five named executive officers collectively own approximately 7% of such shares of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. The percentage of employee holdings may 22 Table of Contents increase as result of our practice of paying a portion of annual bonuses to certain employees in the form of restricted stock. A group of employees with a sufficient number of shares may be able to substantially influence the election of directors, exert significant control over our management and policies and, in general, largely determine the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Such persons may be able to prevent or cause a change in control of our company even if other stockholders oppose them. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage an acquisition of our company. Our organizational documents contain provisions that will impede the removal of directors and may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire our company. For example, our board of directors may, without the consent of stockholders, issue preferred stock with greater voting rights than the common stock. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors divided into three classes, which may impede the removal of existing directors following a change of control. If a change of control or change in management that stockholders might otherwise consider to be favorable is prevented or delayed, the market price of our common stock could decline. Other provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware corporate law impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our employees and other stockholders, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities. We have in the past granted restricted stock awards to certain employees in connection with year-end bonus compensation (the "Year-End Stock Awards") and as part of our hiring procedures. As of February 17, 2012, 2,257,841 shares pertaining to such awards remain unvested, and therefore may not be traded or disposed of by the award recipient. Year-End Stock Awards, which have been granted in February of each year since the IPO, generally are freed from trading restrictions in equal one-third installments on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of their grant. Under our Company trading policy, employees may trade our common stock only during certain "window" periods throughout the year. The time frame of any such window period may be adjusted by senior management, if in their discretion such adjustment is determined to be advisable. Sales of shares of common stock by our officers and employees upon the removal of any of the above-described trading restrictions may result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and restrict our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity securities. We currently have on file with the SEC an "universal" shelf registration statement on form S-3, which enables us to sell, from time to time, our common stock and other securities covered by the registration statement in one or more public offerings. See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our stockholders may not receive the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy that our board of directors adopted or any dividends at all. Our dividend policy contemplates the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our outstanding common stock. However, our board of directors may, in its discretion, amend or repeal our dividend policy. Our board of directors may increase or decrease the level of dividends provided for in the dividend policy, may declare special dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends. 23 Table of Contents Dividend payments are not required or guaranteed, and holders of our common stock do not have any legal right to receive or require the payment of dividends. Future dividends, if any, with respect to shares of our capital stock will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition and contractual restrictions, and our ability to generate cash from our operations and service our capital expenditures requirements. Other factors, including the pursuit of new business strategies or opportunities, increased regulatory compliance costs and changes in our competitive environment may also reduce cash available for dividends. Any reduction or elimination of dividends may cause our stock price to decline, and therefore the value of your investment would suffer. Our dividend policy and stock repurchase program may negatively impact our ability to finance our working capital requirements, capital expenditures or operations. Our dividend policy contemplates the payment of a dividend on all then-outstanding shares of common stock. Since the IPO, restricted stock grants to employees have formed a component of our compensation policy, and have therefore steadily increased our total number of shares outstanding. Such restricted shares are entitled to receive dividends, and payments of dividend equivalents are also required on restricted stock units. Any future issuances of common stock, including but not limited to issuances pursuant to our existing benefit plans, will increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock (which may be reduced to the extent we retire shares acquired under our stock repurchase program) and consequently require more cash to pay dividends at the dividend rate set forth in our dividend policy. On October 26, 2011, our board of directors authorized an additional $50.0 million for the stock repurchase program. Previously the board had authorized up to $70.0 million of cash to buy back shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had utilized approximately $71.3 million of our authorization to repurchase shares. While we believe these uses of capital will not impede our ability to implement or pursue growth strategies, if we maintain our dividend policy and rate of cash dividend payments and use the entire amount of capital approved for stock repurchases, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance unanticipated capital expenditures or growth opportunities that may arise or be able to fund our operations in the event of a significant business downturn. The cash resources used to fund dividends or stock repurchases results in less cash available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively impact our future liquidity, our ability to adapt to changes in our industry and our ability to expand our business. We may have to forego growth opportunities or capital expenditures that would otherwise be necessary or desirable if we do not find alternative sources of financing. If we do not have sufficient cash for these purposes, our financial condition and our business will suffer. There may be contractual, legal and other restrictions that could prevent us from paying cash dividends on our common stock and, as a result, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than the price for which you paid. We are a holding company that does not conduct any business operations of our own, and therefore, we are dependent upon cash dividends and other transfers from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock. See "—We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments" for further information. Various regulations applicable to certain operating subsidiaries may limit or delay their ability to pay cash dividends to us if certain minimum net capital requirements are not met or if regulatory approval for payment of such dividends is required. The net capital rules of the SEC, which specify minimum net capital requirements for registered brokers and dealers, is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer and requires that at least a minimum part of its assets be kept in relatively liquid form. Similar rules exist in the United Kingdom and in Hong Kong. See "—Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulatory net capital requirements" for further information. 24 Table of Contents We do not currently have any permanent or long-term third party financing or borrowing arrangements. Any future arrangements may contain restrictive covenants or other contractual limitations on payment of dividends. If we were not able to satisfy the financial and other covenants in any debt agreements or if existing sources of liquidity did not otherwise satisfy our needs, we may have to engage in capital raising transactions, seek additional outside financing or scale back or curtail our operations, including limiting our efforts to recruit additional employees, selling assets at prices that may be less favorable to us, cutting or eliminating dividends and reducing our operating expenses. The availability of outside financing, including access to the capital markets and bank lending, depends on a variety of factors, such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services sector and our credit worthiness. We may not be able to successfully obtain additional outside financing to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all. Delaware law permits the declaration of dividends only to the extent of our surplus (which is defined as total assets at fair market value minus total liabilities, minus statutory capital), or if there is no surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal years. In the event we do not pay cash dividends on our common stock as a result of any of these restrictions, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than the price for which you paid. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 