Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including those described below. Medicare, Medi-Cal, other government-sponsored programs and private third-party payor cost containment efforts and reductions in reimbursement rates could reduce our hospital revenue and our cash flow. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, our hospitals derived approximately 80% of their revenue from the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs. Changes in recent years in the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs, including both fee-for-service and managed care programs, have resulted in limitations on reimbursement and, in some cases, reduced levels of reimbursement for healthcare services. Payments from federal and state government programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations, requirements for utilization review, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease revenue, as well as affect the cost of providing service to patients and the timing of payments to facilities. Future federal and state legislation may further reduce the payments we receive for our services. The State of California has incurred budget deficits in the past few years. As a result, the State has enacted legislation designed to reduce its Medi-Cal expenditures. In 2008 and 2009, the State reduced and/or froze Medi-Cal reimbursement for numerous services, including hospital outpatient services, hospital sub-acute services, and distinct-part nursing services. In addition, payments to hospitals for 39 Table of Contents inpatient services not furnished under Medi-Cal contracts were reduced. The inpatient reductions do not currently affect our hospitals because our hospitals have contracts with the State to provide Medi-Cal inpatient services, but these reductions could affect our hospitals if any of our contracts are terminated. All of these limitations are being challenged in court by the California Hospital Association. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain. A temporary injunction has been issued prohibiting certain of the limitations enacted in 2008 pursuant to Assembly Bill 1183 from being implemented for services on and after April 6, 2009, and a second temporary injunction has been issued prohibiting certain other limitations enacted in 2009 pursuant to Assembly Bill X45 from being implemented on or after February 24, 2010 due to the state's failure to comply with federal Medicaid law. The cases are still pending and the preliminary injunctions are still in place. If the courts ultimately find that the rate reductions were lawful, the Company may be obligated to return to the State the additional amounts paid under the injunction and future Medi-Cal reimbursement could be reduced. Additionally, the State of California has recently enacted legislation affecting reimbursement for inpatient hospital services under Medi-Cal which (a) provides that, effective July 1, 2010, Medi-Cal payment rates shall be no higher than the rates in effect on January 1, 2010, (b) requires the California Department of Health Care Services to develop a prospective payment system based on diagnosis-related groups by June 30, 2014, and (c) requires that the payments made to hospitals for services furnished on and after July 1, 2010 will be reconciled to the amount computed to be due for such services under the new prospective payment system once that system is developed. These changes could have a significant adverse effect on our hospitals' Medi-Cal revenue. Furthermore, the State of California has considered, and/or is considering, various proposals designed to reduce its healthcare-related expenditures. Many of these proposals threaten to reduce our hospital revenue. The State of California has considered numerous proposals reducing Medi-Cal payments directly to private hospitals in the form of Disproportionate Share Hospital ("DSH") payments or distressed hospital supplemental payments. In addition, the State of California has considered other proposals that may impact our hospitals' revenue, including reductions in coverage and reimbursement relating to prescription drugs, AIDS services, family planning services and mental health community-based services, breast and cervical screening, non-emergency services for individuals without documentation status, dialysis and non-digestive nutrition services. The State of California has also considered the reduction of funding for counties to pay local hospitals for uncompensated care, the elimination of funding to Institutions of Mental Disease for ancillary health services not covered under the federal Medicaid program and restricting eligibility for or coverage under the Medi-Cal and Healthy Families programs or eliminating the Healthy Families program altogether. These proposals would increase the number of uninsured individuals or amount of non-covered services, potentially adversely affecting the revenue of our hospitals. The recent California budget included reductions in funding for the Medi-Cal mental health managed care program, which could potentially reduce revenues for our hospital in Van Nuys. California continues to explore further reforms to payments to Medi-Cal managed care plans in light of California's ongoing budget crises. We are unable to predict the effect of future state or federal healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payors are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payors is limited, or if we, or one of our hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medi-Cal program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Employers have also passed more healthcare benefit costs on to employees to reduce the employers' health insurance expense. This trend has caused the self-pay/deductible component of healthcare services to become more common. This payor shifting increases collection costs and reduces overall collections. 40 Table of Contents During the past several years, major purchasers of healthcare, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, purchasers increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk through prepaid capitation arrangements, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, these payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. The trends may result in a reduction from our historical levels in per patient revenue received by our hospitals and affiliated physician organizations. In our hospital segment, the continued growth of uninsured and underinsured patients or further deterioration in the collectability of the accounts of such patients could harm our results of operations. Like others in the hospital industry, we have experienced large provisions for bad debts, totaling $29,900,000 or 10.7% of total net patient revenue for fiscal 2010, due to a growth in self-pay volume. Although we continue to seek ways of improving collection efforts and implementing appropriate payment plans for our services, if we experience growth in self-pay volume and revenue, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to improve collections for self-pay and other patients may be limited by statutory, regulatory and investigatory initiatives, including private lawsuits directed at hospital charges and collection practices for uninsured and underinsured patients. The principal collection risks for our accounts receivable include uninsured patient accounts and to patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement but patient responsibility amounts (e.g., deductibles, co-payments and other amounts not covered by insurance) remain outstanding. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based upon our assessment of historical cash collections and accounts receivable write-offs, expected net collections, business and economic conditions, trends in federal, state and private employer healthcare coverage and other collection indicators. If we continue to experience significant levels of uninsured and underinsured patients, and bad debt expenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. Because our hospitals are obligated to provide care in certain circumstances regardless of whether we will get paid for providing such care, if the number of uninsured patients treated at our hospitals increases, our results of operations may be harmed. In accordance with our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, as well as EMTALA, we provide a medical screening examination to any individual who comes to our hospitals while in active labor and/or seeking medical treatment (whether or not such individual is eligible for insurance benefits and regardless of their ability to pay) to determine if such individual has an emergency medical condition. If it is determined that such person has an emergency medical condition, we provide further medical examination and treatment as is required in order to stabilize the patient's medical condition, within the facility's capability, or arrange for transfer of such individual to another medical facility in accordance with applicable law and the treating hospital's written procedures. If the number of indigent and charity care patients with emergency medical conditions we treat increases significantly, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Decreases in the number of HMO enrollees using our Medical Group networks could reduce our profitability and inhibit future growth. During recent periods, the number of HMO enrollees using our physician networks has declined (exclusive of increases resulting from our managed contracts), and management currently anticipates that this trend will continue. The profitability and growth of our business depends largely on the 41 Table of Contents number of HMO members who use our physician networks. We seek to maintain and increase the number of HMO enrollees using our physician networks by partnering with HMOs with which our affiliated physician organizations have contracts. If we are not successful, we may not be able to maintain or achieve profitability. For the years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, our Medical Group segment saw a decrease in the number of HMO enrollees, using our physician networks of approximately 10,300 and 12,000, respectively. Estimated revenue reductions associated with the enrollment decreases for those periods were approximately $3,200,000 and $4,200,000, respectively. These fiscal year estimates assume that enrollment decreased ratably during the indicated periods and, as such, represent approximately 50% of the lost revenue that will be experienced in subsequent periods, when the enrollment decline is in effect for the whole period. Substantially all of our Medical Group segment revenues are generated from contracts with a limited number of HMOs, and if we were to lose HMO contracts or to renew HMO contracts on less favorable terms, our revenues and profitability could be significantly reduced. With the consolidation of HMOs, there are a limited number of HMOs doing business in California, which magnifies the risk of loss of any one HMO contract. The potential for risk is also magnified because HMO contracts often have only a one-year term, may be terminated with cause upon short notice, and, upon renewal, are subject to annual negotiation of capitation rates, covered benefits and other terms and conditions. We are particularly at risk with respect to the potential loss or renewal on less favorable terms of contracts that we have with five of these HMOs due to the concentration of revenue with these HMOs—Plan A, Plan B, Plan C, Plan D, and Plan E. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, contracts with our five largest HMOs accounted for approximately 67% of our enrollment and approximately $144,599,000, or 72% of our total capitation revenue. The loss of contracts with any one of these HMOs could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We have one-year automatically renewable contracts with most contracted HMOs, including our largest HMO customers discussed above, whereby such contracts are automatically renewed, unless either party provides the other party with four to six months' notice (prior to the expiration of the term) of such party's intent not to renew. Under limited circumstances, the HMOs may immediately terminate the contracts for cause; otherwise, termination for cause requires one to three months' prior written notice with an opportunity to cure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew any of these contracts or, if renewed, that they will contain terms favorable to us. In our Medical Group segment, risk-sharing arrangements that our Medical Groups have with HMOs and hospitals could result in their costs exceeding the corresponding revenues, which could reduce or eliminate any shared risk profitability. Most of our affiliated physician organizations' agreements with HMOs and hospitals contain risk-sharing arrangements under which the affiliated physician organizations can earn additional compensation by coordinating the provision of quality, cost-effective healthcare to enrollees, but they may also be required to assume a portion of any loss sustained from these arrangements, thereby reducing our net income. Risk-sharing arrangements are based upon the cost of hospital services or other services for which our physician organizations are not capitated. The terms of the particular risk-sharing arrangement allocate responsibility to the respective parties when the cost of services exceeds the related revenue, which results in a "deficit," or permit the parties to share in any "surplus" amounts when actual costs are less than the related revenue. The amount of non-capitated and hospital costs in any period could be affected by factors beyond our control, such as changes in treatment protocols, new technologies, longer lengths of stay by the patient and inflation. To the extent that such non-capitated and hospital costs are higher than anticipated, revenue may not be sufficient to cover the risk-sharing deficits they are responsible for, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. It is our 42 Table of Contents experience that "deficit" amounts for hospital costs are applied to offset any future "surplus" amount we would otherwise be entitled to receive. We have historically not been required to reimburse the HMOs for any hospital cost deficit amounts. Most of our contracts with HMOs specifically provide that we will not have to reimburse the HMO for hospital cost deficit amounts. HMOs often insist on withholding negotiated amounts from professional capitation payments, which the HMOs are permitted to retain, in order to cover our share of any risk-sharing deficits; and hospitals may demand cash settlements of risk-sharing deficits as a "quid pro quo" for joining in these arrangements. Net risk-pool deficits were approximately $3,808,000 and $6,217,000, for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. To date, we have not suffered significant losses due to hospital risk arrangements other than offsets (for deficit amounts) against any future surpluses we otherwise would have received. Whenever possible, we seek to contractually reduce or eliminate our affiliated physician organizations' liability for risk-sharing deficits. Notwithstanding the foregoing, risk-sharing deficits could have a significant impact on our future profitability. The operating results of our Medical Group segment could be adversely affected if our actual healthcare claims exceed our reserves. At certain times in our history, we have not had adequate cash resources to retire one hundred percent of our incurred but not reported ("IBNR") medical claims. As of September 30, 2010 and 2009, we had sufficient cash to fully retire our estimated accrued medical claims and other healthcare costs payable of approximately $14,852,000 and $16,824,000, respectively. Historically, we have been able to satisfy our claims payment obligations each month out of cash flows from operations and existing cash reserves. However, in the event that our revenues are substantially reduced due to a loss of a significant HMO contract or other factors, our cash flow may not be sufficient to pay off claims on a timely basis, or at all. If we are unable to pay claims timely we may be subject to HMO de-delegation wherein the HMO would take away our claims processing functions and perform the functions on our behalf, charging us a fee per enrollee, a requirement by the HMO to comply with a corrective action plan, and/or termination of the HMO contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results of operations. We estimate the amount of our reserves for submitted claims and IBNR claims primarily using standard actuarial methodologies based upon historical data. The estimates for submitted claims and IBNR claims liabilities are made on an accrual basis, are continually reviewed and are adjusted in current operations as required. Given the uncertainties inherent in such estimates, the reserves could materially understate or overstate our actual liability for claims payable. Any increases to these prior estimates could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. In our Medical Group segment, we may be exposed to liability or fail to estimate IBNR claims accurately if we cannot process any increased volume of claims accurately and timely. We have regulatory risk for the timely processing and payment of claims. If we are unable to handle increased claims volume, or if we are unable to pay claims timely we may become subject to an HMO corrective action plan or de-delegation until the problem is corrected, and/or termination of the HMO agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and profitability. In addition, if our claims processing system is unable to process claims accurately, the data we use for our IBNR estimates could be incomplete and our ability to accurately estimate claims liabilities and establish adequate reserves could be adversely affected. 43 Table of Contents The profitability of our Medical Group segment may be reduced or eliminated if we are not able to manage our healthcare costs effectively. Our success depends in large part on our effective management of healthcare costs incurred by our affiliated physician organizations and controlling utilization of specialty and ancillary care, and by contracting with our independent physicians at competitive prices. We attempt to control the healthcare costs of our HMO enrollees through capitated and discounted fee-for-service contracts, by emphasizing preventive care, entering into risk-sharing agreements with HMOs at hospitals that have favorable rate and utilization structures, and requiring prior authorization for specialist physician referrals. If we cannot maintain or improve our management of healthcare costs, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and ability to satisfy our obligations could be adversely affected. Under all current HMO contracts, our affiliated physician organizations accept the financial risk for the provision of primary care and specialty physician services, and some ancillary healthcare services. If we are unable to negotiate favorable contract rates with providers of these services, or if our affiliated physician organizations are unable to effectively control the utilization of these services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. Our ability to manage healthcare costs is also diminished to the extent that we are unable to sub-capitate the specialists in our service areas at competitive rates. To the extent that our HMO enrollees require more frequent or extensive care, our operating margins may be reduced and the revenues derived from our capitation contracts may be insufficient to cover the costs of the services provided. The revenue and profitability of our Medical Group segment could be significantly reduced and could also fluctuate significantly from period to period under Medicare's Risk Adjusted payment methodology. In calendar 2004, CMS began a four-year phase-in of a revised compensation model for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare Advantage plans. Previously, monthly capitation revenue was based primarily on age, sex and location. The CMS revised payment model seeks to compensate Medicare managed care organizations based on the health status of each individual enrollee. Health plans/Medical Groups with enrollees that can be proven to require more care will receive higher compensation, and those with enrollees requiring less care will receive less. This is referred to by CMS as "Risk Adjustment." Increased numbers of office visits by members, and submission of encounter data is required in order to receive incremental revenue, or not lose revenue for any given member. This requires a great deal of continuous effort on our part, and cooperation on the part of our contracted physicians and HMO enrollees. We have not always been able to gain this cooperation from the contracted physicians and enrollees, or devote the resources necessary to obtain incremental Risk Adjustment revenue, or avoid having previously received revenue taken back from us. Additionally, because of the time required by CMS to process all of the submitted encounter data from all participating entities, we typically do not find out until the latter part of the calendar year what adjustments will be made to our Medicare revenue for the prior year, at which time those adjustments to revenue, which have historically been significant, are recorded. In fiscal 2010 and 2009, we received approximately $4,000,000 and $4,300,000, respectively, in incremental Risk Adjustment revenue, which was recorded in the respective fiscal fourth quarter. This adjustment became known, and was recorded, in the fiscal fourth quarter, even though the majority of the adjustment related to earlier periods. Given the deadlines for submitting data to CMS, and CMS's processing time in order to calculate these Risk Adjustment revenue changes, we have no way of reliably estimating the impact of Risk 44 Table of Contents Adjustment until such time as those adjustments are made known by CMS. As such, retroactive Risk Adjustments will be recorded each year in the quarter they become known, notwithstanding that a significant portion of those adjustments will relate to earlier periods. These adjustments will continue to be significant and could be materially more or less than our estimates. An increasing portion of our Medical Group revenue is "at risk" and difficult to project, which increases uncertainty regarding future revenues, cash flow projections, and profitability. Historically, our Medical Group revenue has primarily consisted of contractually guaranteed capitation revenue from HMOs based on a fixed per-member-per-month rate. In recent years, new revenue sources including pay for performance, risk-sharing and risk adjustment have increased and will represent an increasingly significant portion of our total Medical Group revenue. These revenue sources and reimbursement methods are more difficult to project and have a much longer collection cycle. Pay for performance revenue is paid on an approximate one-year lag basis, and predicated on health plan funding being available as well as on the ability of the organization and its partner physicians to achieve certain criteria. These performance thresholds are typically in the areas of clinical measures, patient satisfaction, IT investment, encounter data submission and generic drug utilization. The ultimate receipt of pay for performance monies can vary with our relative performance in comparison to that of competitor medical groups and our ability to successfully modify physician behavior in these areas. Similarly, risk-sharing and risk adjustment revenues have more variability and volatility than capitated arrangements and can require a lengthy reconciliation and reimbursement process. As mentioned previously, incremental revenue generated by both sources involves not only our ability to control medical costs and influence provider and member behavior (i.e., office visits, encounter data submission, etc.), but also is contingent on certain other factors that are beyond our control. Our profitability could be adversely affected by any changes that would reduce payments to HMOs under government-sponsored health care programs and recent changes affecting payments to non-contract hospitals under Medi-Cal Managed Care. Although our affiliated physician organizations do not directly contract with CMS, during the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, our affiliated physician organizations received approximately $89,736,000 and $89,649,000 or 48% and 46%, respectively, of capitation revenues from HMOs related to contracts with Medicare, Medi-Cal and other government-sponsored health care programs. Consequently, any change in the regulations, policies, practices, interpretations or statutes adversely affecting payments made to HMOs under these government-sponsored health care programs could reduce our profitability. The recent California budget included reductions in funding for the Medi-Cal mental health managed care program, which could potentially reduce revenues for our hospital in Van Nuys. California continues to explore further reforms to payments to Medi-Cal managed care plans in light of California's ongoing budget crises. The State of California enacted legislation in 2008 concerning the amount of payments to providers, including hospitals, for services furnished to Medi-Cal recipients enrolled in managed care plans with which the provider does not have a contract. Our hospitals furnish such services. Under the legislation, payments are limited to the regional average rate under Medi-Cal fee-for-service contracts for emergency services and 95% of this rate for post-stabilization services. These payment limits could adversely affect our hospitals' revenues. If any of our hospitals lose their Joint Commission and CMS accreditation, such hospitals could become ineligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare or Medi-Cal. Our hospitals are accredited, meaning that they are properly licensed under appropriate State laws and regulations, certified under the Medicare program and accredited by the Joint Commission 45 Table of Contents (formerly known as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) and CMS Healthcare, Inc. The effect of maintaining accredited facilities is to allow such facilities to participate in the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs. We believe that all of our healthcare facilities are in material compliance with applicable federal, state, local and independent review body regulations and standards. However, should any of our healthcare facilities lose their accredited status and thereby lose certification under the Medicare or Medi-Cal programs, such facilities would be unable to receive reimbursement from either of those programs and our business could be harmed. Because the requirements for accreditation are subject to modification, it may be necessary for us to effect changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel and services in order to maintain accreditation. Such changes could be expensive and could harm our results of operations. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our hospital revenue. Controls imposed by third party payors that are designed to reduce admissions and the average length of hospital stays, commonly referred to as "utilization management," have affected and are expected to continue to affect results for our hospital facilities. Utilization management reviews entail an evaluation of a patient's admission and course of treatment by healthcare payors. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively impacted by payor-required pre-admission authorization, utilization reviews and payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Although we cannot predict the effect these changes will have on our operations, limitations on the scope of services for which we are reimbursed and/or downward pressure on reimbursement rates and fees as a result of increasing utilization management efforts by payors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Relocation of the Brotman emergency room facility in connection with the JHA option will require significant capital and may disrupt operations. As part of the bankruptcy plan of reorganization for Brotman, replacement financing was secured from JHA West 16, LLC and JHA East 7, LLC, affiliates of the Los Angeles Jewish Home for the Aging (collectively, "JHA"), and exit financing was secured through Gemino Healthcare Finance, LLC ("Gemino"). The JHA transaction was comprised of two term debt components, a $16,000,000 tranche secured by assets on the west side of the Brotman campus commonly referred to as "Delmas West" and a $6,250,000 tranche on the main hospital pavilion on the east side of the property. The $16,000,000 tranche contains an option for JHA to acquire the Delmas West parcel, where JHA plans to construct a senior living facility, for a purchase price equal to the outstanding debt within 24 months of the effective date of the bankruptcy. In connection with JHA's exercise of its option to purchase the Delmas West parcel, Brotman will have to relocate its emergency room facilities and other related ancillary services to the main hospital pavilion on the east side of the property. Such relocation could take up to four years, could involve assistance from the City of Culver City in connection with the possible acquisition of a contiguous property, could cost an estimated $20,000,000 to $25,000,000, which might require additional debt, and could disrupt operations during periods of construction. The JHA West loan is due on April 14, 2011. Brotman has had discussions with JHA regarding an extension of this loan, but has not yet reached any agreement with JHA regarding an extension. If Brotman is unable to extend or refinance this loan, it may default on such loan. Any default on the loan may have a material adverse effect on Brotman's business and financial condition, and may adversely affect its ability to continue its business as a going concern. Such default, may also have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position and results of the Company. 46 Table of Contents Hospital operations are capital intensive and could prove to be a drain on cash. Operating a hospital requires a significant continual investment in capital assets, particularly in hospital machinery and equipment. Due to obsolescence and heavy usage, hospital capital assets may require more frequent replacement, and at a higher cost relative to that in an independent physician association ("IPA"). With additional acquisitions of hospitals and expansion of our existing facilities, some of which are operating near capacity, the capital investment required to maintain hospital operations at an optimal level could be significant. Additionally, according to the California Hospital Association, 1,022 hospitals statewide would have to be upgraded by the year 2013 to comply with seismic retrofitting guidelines established by legislation enacted in the 1990s. Hollywood Community Hospital is required to meet applicable compliance standards by January 1, 2013 and Norwalk Community Hospital is required to meet applicable compliance standards by January 1, 2030. We have applied for a HAZARDS U.S. ("HAZUS") re-evaluation of the seismic risk for Los Angeles Community Hospital and Brotman. Our Van Nuys Community Hospital is exempt from the seismic retrofitting guidelines because psychiatric hospitals are exempt from seismic retrofitting. (See "Business Description—Health Care Regulation—California Seismic Standards"). Further, Brotman's relocation of the emergency room facility in connection with JHA's exercise of the purchase option may negatively impact the HAZUS evaluation process as well as the related OSHPD approval since Brotman will build new facilities in a building that may have seismic issues prior to HAZUS approval which may complicate the requirements of the approval process. Any upgrading costs we incur in order to comply with seismic retrofitting guidelines for our hospitals may be significant. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances are continually being made regarding computer-assisted tomography scanners, magnetic resonance imaging equipment, positron emission tomography scanners and other similar equipment. In order to effectively compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade when technological advances occur. If our hospitals do not invest significantly and stay abreast of technological advances in the healthcare industry, patients may seek treatment from other providers and physicians may refer their patients to alternate sources. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to negotiate or complete acquisitions on favorable terms, our prospects for growth could be limited. In addition, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions that we are able to complete. Part of our business strategy is to grow through potential acquisitions in order to achieve economies of scale. Although we are regularly in discussions with potential acquisition candidates, it may be difficult to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to negotiate satisfactory terms with them. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates at favorable prices, our ability to grow by acquisition could be limited. In addition, to the extent we are successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates and making acquisitions, these acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: •we may find that the acquired company or assets do not further our business strategy, or that we overpaid for the company or assets, or that industry or economic conditions change, all of which may require a future impairment charge; •we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business and may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business; 47 Table of Contents •we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired services with our existing services; •there may be customer confusion where our services overlap with those of entities that we acquire; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations; •we may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations; •we may acquire companies that have material liabilities, including, among other things, for the failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations; •the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; •we may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with service quality, technology and legal contingencies; •we may spend considerable amounts of money (legal, accounting, diligence, etc.) in seeking an acquisition candidate and never complete the acquisition; and •acquisition candidate letters of intent may have large break-up fees that we could be liable for in the event we sign a letter of intent and do not complete the transaction. In particular, our strategy for growth includes strategic acquisitions of hospitals. However, even if we are successful in completing further acquisitions, it may not be possible to integrate their operations into our operations or it may be difficult and time consuming to integrate the acquired hospitals' management services, information systems, billing and collection systems, finance department, medical records, and other key administrative functions, while at the same time managing a larger entity with a differing history, business model and culture. Management may be required to develop working relationships with providers and vendors with whom they have had no previous business experience. Management also may not be able to obtain the necessary economies of scale. Integration of acquired entities is vital for us to be able to operate effectively and to control variable (staffing) and fixed costs. If we are not successful in integrating acquired operations on a timely basis, or at all, our business could be disrupted and we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, including cost savings. There may be substantial unanticipated costs associated with acquisition and integration activities, any of which could result in significant one-time or on-going charges to earnings or otherwise adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to make future acquisitions without obtaining additional financing. To finance any acquisitions, we may, from time to time, issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt. A greater amount of debt or additional equity financing could be required to the extent that our common stock fails to achieve or to maintain a market value sufficient to warrant its use in future acquisitions, or to the extent that acquisition targets are unwilling to accept common stock in exchange for their businesses. Our ability to incur additional debt will be restricted by our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the notes issued under the facility. Even if we were permitted to incur additional debt or determine to sell equity, we may not be able to obtain additional required capital on acceptable terms, if at all, which would limit our plans for growth. In addition, any capital we may be able to raise could result in increased leverage on our balance sheet, additional interest and financing expense, and decreased operating income. 48 Table of Contents The acquisition of hospitals and subsequent integration with our Medical Group business may prove to be difficult and may outweigh the anticipated benefits of a hospital-Medical Group combination. Our core business has historically been that of a healthcare management services company that manages independent physician associations providing healthcare services to HMO enrollees. In continuing to diversify acquisition targets beyond our Medical Group business, we will be facing a myriad of unique operational, financial and regulatory issues in a hospital environment that could prove to be a drain on existing resources, and be a significant distraction from other initiatives facing us. For instance, hospital revenue from Medicare, Medi-Cal and other third parties are tentative in nature and subject to audits by third-party fiscal intermediaries. In addition, acquiring, developing and integrating facilities may involve significant cash expenditures, expenses and unforeseen liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Finally, changing legislation on the funding and recognition of hospital revenues could negatively impact financial performance and cause earnings decreases. Moreover, in recent years Congress has enacted legislation regarding DSH payments revisiting the program's intent and methodologies for calculating payments to hospitals. There have recently been other initiatives proposed to reduce the overall funding of Medicare and Medi-Cal programs, coupled with increased regulation on the disbursement methodology for such funds. Unfavorable outcomes on such legislation could cause a reduction in revenues generated as compared to prior years. Whenever we seek to make an acquisition of an entity that has an HMO contract, the HMO could potentially refuse to consent to the transfer of its contract, and this could effectively stop the acquisition or potentially deprive us of the revenues associated with that HMO contract if we choose to complete the acquisition without the HMO's consent. Contracts with HMOs typically include provisions requiring the HMO to consent to the transfer of their contract before effecting any change in control of the healthcare provider party thereto. As a result, whenever we seek to make an acquisition, such acquisition may be conditioned upon the acquisition candidate's ability to obtain such consent from the HMOs with which it has contracted. Therefore, an acquisition could be delayed while an HMO seeks to determine whether it will consent to the transfer. While in our experience the HMOs limit their review to satisfying their regulatory responsibility to ensure that, following the acquisition, the post-acquisition entity will meet certain financial and operational thresholds, the language in many of the HMO agreements give the HMO the ability to decline to give their consent if they simply do not want to do business with the acquiring entity. If an HMO is unwilling for any reason to give its consent, this could deter us from completing the acquisition, or, if we complete an acquisition without obtaining an HMO's consent, we could lose the benefits associated with that HMO's contract. If we were to lose the services of Sam Lee or other key members of management, we might not be able to replace them in a timely manner with qualified personnel, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability and revenue growth. Our success depends, in large part, on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and on the efforts, ability and experience of key members of our local hospital management staffs, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Sam Lee, who is also Chief Executive Officer of Alta Hospitals System, LLC; our Chief Financial Officer, Mike Heather; our President of Alta Hospitals Subsidiary, David Topper; and Jeereddi Prasad, M.D., President of our ProMed Entities. In addition to these individuals, there are a number of other critical members of management whose loss would very negatively impact our operations. If for any reason we were to lose the services of any key member of management, we would need to find and recruit a qualified replacement quickly to avoid disrupting our business and reducing our profitability and revenue growth. We compete with other companies for executive talent, and it may not be possible for us to recruit a qualified candidate 49 Table of Contents on a timely basis, or at all. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management team or of a significant portion of our local hospital management staffs could significantly weaken our management expertise and our ability to efficiently deliver healthcare services, which could harm our business. Our hospitals face competition for medical support staff, including nurses, pharmacists, medical technicians and other personnel, which may increase our labor costs and harm our results of operations. We are highly dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our medical support personnel, including our nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical personnel. Hospitals are experiencing a severe ongoing shortage of nursing professionals, a trend which we expect to continue for some time. If the supply of qualified nurses declines in the markets in which our hospitals operate, it may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel or require us to hire expensive temporary personnel, and may result in increased labor expenses and lower operating margins at those hospitals. California has regulatory requirements to maintain specified nurse-staffing levels. To the extent we cannot meet those levels of staffing, the healthcare services that we provide in these markets may be reduced. In addition, to the extent that a significant portion of our employee base unionizes, or attempts to unionize, our labor costs could increase. We cannot predict the degree to which we will be affected by union activity or the future availability or cost of attracting and retaining talented medical support staff. If our general labor and related expenses increase, we may not be able to raise our rates correspondingly. Our failure to either recruit and retain qualified hospital management, nurses and other medical support personnel or control our labor costs could harm the results of our operations. The performance of our hospital business segment depends on our ability to recruit and retain quality physicians. Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions, and the success of our hospitals depends, therefore, in part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. Physicians are often not employees of the hospitals at which they practice and, in many of the markets that we serve, most physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. Such physicians may terminate their affiliation with our hospitals at any time. If we are unable to provide adequate support, personnel or technologically advanced equipment and hospital facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities, admissions may decrease and our operating performance may decline. Our revenues and profits could be diminished if we lose the services of key primary care physicians. Substantially all of our Medical Group revenues are derived from our affiliated physician organizations. Key primary care physicians with large patient enrollment could retire, become disabled, terminate their provider contracts, get lured away by a competing IPA, or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with our affiliated physician organizations. Enrollees who have been served by such physicians could choose to enroll with competitors' physician organizations, reducing our revenues and profits. Moreover, we may not be able to attract new physicians into our affiliated physician organizations to replace the services of terminating physicians. Physicians make hospital admitting decisions and decisions regarding the appropriate course of patient treatment, which, in turn, affect hospital revenue. Therefore, the success of our hospitals depends, in part, on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and our maintenance of good relations with those physicians. In 50 Table of Contents many instances, physicians are not employees of our hospitals and, in a number of the markets that we serve, physicians have admitting privileges at other hospitals in addition to our hospitals. If we are unable to provide adequate support personnel or technologically advanced equipment and facilities that meet the needs of those physicians, they may be discouraged from referring patients to our facilities and our results of operations could be harmed. Our ability to control labor and employee benefit costs could be hindered by continued acquisition activity. As additional acquisitions are completed and our work force continues to grow, maintaining competitive salaries and employee benefits could prove to be cost prohibitive. The impact of inflation and the challenge of blending different benefit programs into our existing structure could lead to either a significant increase in compensation expense and reduced profitability, or a reduction in benefits with the potential outcomes of increased turnover and a reduced ability to attract quality employees. We operate in a highly competitive market; increased competition could adversely affect our revenues. A number of factors affect our HMO membership levels and patient census at our hospitals. The healthcare industry, including hospitals and Medical Groups, are highly competitive. In addition to the competition we face for acquisitions and physicians, we must also compete with other hospitals and healthcare providers for patients, which competition has continued to intensify in recent years. Our hospitals face competition from hospitals inside and outside of their primary service areas, including hospitals that operate newer facilities or provide more complex services. Patients in our primary service areas may travel to these other hospitals for a variety of reasons. These reasons include physician referrals or the need for services we do not offer. Patients who seek services from these other hospitals may subsequently shift their preferences to those hospitals for the services that we provide. Some of the hospitals that compete with our hospitals are owned by government agencies or not-for-profit corporations. Tax-exempt competitors may have certain financial advantages not available to our facilities, such as endowments, charitable contributions, tax-exempt financing, and exemptions from sales, property and income taxes. In California some government hospitals are permitted by law to directly employ physicians while for-profit hospitals are prohibited from doing so. We also face increasing competition from physician-owned specialty hospitals and freestanding surgery, diagnostic and imaging centers for market share in high margin services and for quality physicians and personnel. If competing healthcare providers are better able to attract patients, recruit and retain physicians, expand services or obtain favorable managed care and other contracts at their facilities, we may experience a decline in inpatient and outpatient volume levels. Our inability to compete effectively with other hospitals and other healthcare providers could cause local residents to use other hospitals. If our hospitals are not able to effectively attract patients, our business could be harmed. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. If any of our hospitals should achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these ten quality criteria, patient volumes could decline. In the future, other trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volume. The managed care industry is also highly competitive and is subject to continuing changes in the ways in which services are provided and providers are selected and paid. We are subject to significant competition with respect to physicians affiliating with our affiliated physician organizations. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, managerial, marketing and other resources and experience than we do and, as a result, may compete more effectively than we can. Companies in other healthcare industry segments, some of which have financial and other resources greater than we do, may become competitors in providing similar services. We may not be able to 51 Table of Contents continue to compete effectively in this industry. Additional competitors may enter our markets and this increased competition may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Hospitals with union contracts could experience setbacks from unfavorable negotiations with union members. Our Hollywood Community Hospital has a collective bargaining agreement with the Service Employees International Union ("SEIU") involving a small portion of the hospital staff. This agreement, which expires May 9, 2011, specifies employee benefits for those represented by the collective bargaining agreement, including compensation rates, hours of work, overtime, vacation, holiday, sick, and health and retirement benefits. In addition, Brotman has two unions—the SEIU and CNA—covering approximately 78% of the hospital employees. Unsuccessful negotiations between hospital officials and union representatives could have an unfavorable impact on day-to-day operations of that hospital and any increased costs that we are required to pay pursuant to a new collective bargaining agreement could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may be required to obtain a Knox-Keene license or otherwise restructure our Medical Group segment if the assignable option agreement or our management services agreements with affiliated physician organizations are deemed invalid under California's prohibition against the corporate practice of medicine. State laws specify who may practice medicine and limit the scope of relationships, including management agreements and stock purchase agreements, between medical practitioners and other parties. Under these laws, lay companies, like us and our subsidiaries, are prohibited from practicing medicine, exercising control over the medical and business aspects of a medical practice and owning stock in a medical corporation, and may be prohibited from sharing in the profits of a medical practice. While we exercise control over the ownership of the stock in our affiliated Medical Groups through assignable option agreements, the options are not exercisable by us or by any non-professional organization, and neither we nor our subsidiaries directly own the stock in our affiliated Medical Groups. Rather, we have the right to designate the physician who will purchase the capital stock of our affiliated physician organizations. We and our subsidiaries do not employ physicians to provide medical services, exert control over medical decision-making or represent to the public that we offer medical services. Our subsidiaries have entered into management services agreements with our affiliated physician organizations pursuant to which the physician organizations reserve exclusive control and responsibility for all aspects of the practice of medicine and the delivery of medical services. Nevertheless, it is possible that the California Medical Board, a different regulatory agency or a court could determine that the assignable option agreements, either independently or coupled with the management services agreements, confer impermissible control over the business and/or medical operations of the affiliated physician groups or their participating physicians, that the management fee results in profit sharing or that we are the beneficial owner of the Medical Groups' stock in violation of the corporate practice of medicine doctrine. If there were a determination that the assignable options and/or management services agreements constituted a corporate practice of medicine violation, these arrangements could be deemed invalid, potentially resulting in a loss of our Medical Group revenues and we, as well as the shareholder nominee, could be subject to criminal or civil penalties or an injunction for practicing medicine without a license or aiding and abetting the unlicensed practice of medicine. This could also force a restructuring of our Medical Group management arrangements, including possible revisions of the management services agreements, which might include a modification of the management fee or elimination of any portion of the fee tied to Medical Group profits, and/or establishing an alternative structure, such as obtaining a Knox-Keene license which would permit us to operate a physician network without being subject to the corporate practice of medicine prohibition. 52 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that such a restructuring would be feasible, or that it could be accomplished within a reasonable time frame without a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. If our assignable option agreements with our physician shareholder nominee of our affiliated physician organizations are deemed invalid under California or federal law, are terminated as a result of changes in California law or application of Financial Accounting Standards Board policies, it would impact our consolidation of our affiliated physician organizations and total revenues. Our financial statements are consolidated and include the accounts of the Company and all majority owned subsidiaries and controlled Medical Group entities, which control is effectuated through the existence of a call option under which we have the ability to require the holders of all of the voting common stock of the underlying entities to sell their shares at a fixed nominal price ($1,000) to another designated physician chosen by us. All adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation of the results as of the date of, and for the interim periods presented, which consist solely of normal recurring adjustments, have been included. All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. In the event of a change in FASB interpretations, a determination by a regulatory agency or a court that the assignable option agreements or the Company's management relationships with its affiliated Medical Groups are not valid or if there were a change in California or federal law, we may be forced to no longer consolidate the revenues of our affiliated physician organizations. See "Business Description—Health Care Regulation—Corporate Practice of Medicine and Professional Licenses." In the event our physician shareholder nominee under the assignable option agreements was to file a personal bankruptcy, we may need court approval to replace such physician nominee under such option agreements. Under our assignable option agreements with our physician shareholder nominee, we can replace at any time our physician shareholder nominee for consideration of $1,000. In the event our physician shareholder nominee was to file a personal bankruptcy, we may need court approval to replace such physician nominee under the option agreements, which may require a significant amount of time, may require payment of an amount much greater than the normal consideration in the option agreements or may not be given by the bankruptcy court. To the extent we are unable to nominate the physician shareholder, we may lose a certain degree of control over our Medical Groups. In addition, in the event of the bankruptcy of the sole physician shareholder, our stockholders and creditors could experience delays in recovering the value of the IPA-related collateral held by such physician shareholder or could lose the value of these assets entirely. We are subject to extensive government regulation regarding the conduct of our operations. If we fail to comply with any existing or new regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. Failure to comply with federal and state regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in business operations. Companies that provide healthcare services are required to comply with many highly complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels, including, but not limited to, those relating to the adequacy of medical care, billing for services, patient privacy, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures and maintenance of records. We, along with our hospitals and our affiliated physician organizations, are subject to numerous federal and state statutes and regulations that are applicable to healthcare organizations and businesses generally, including the corporate practice of medicine prohibition, federal and state anti-kickback laws and federal and state laws regarding the use and disclosure of patient health information. If our business operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws and regulations to which we are subject, we 53 Table of Contents may be subject to the applicable penalty associated with the violation, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and increased legal expenses, we may be required to make costly changes to our business operations, and we may be excluded from government reimbursement programs. The laws and regulations that our hospitals and affiliated physician organizations are subject to are complex and subject to varying interpretations. Any action against our hospitals or affiliated physician organizations for violation of these laws or regulations, even if we successfully defended against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert management's attention from the operation of our business. All of these consequences could have the effect of reducing our revenues, increasing our costs, decreasing our profitability and curtailing our growth. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, if we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses to operate our facilities. We could also become unable to participate in Medicare, Medi-Cal, and other federal and state healthcare programs that significantly contribute to our revenue. Because many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are relatively new or highly complex, in many cases we do not have the benefit of regulatory or judicial interpretation. In the future, it is possible that different interpretations or enforcement of such laws and regulations could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services or capital expenditure programs. Providers in the hospital industry have been the subject of federal and state investigations and we could become subject to such investigations in the future. Significant media and public attention has been focused on the hospital industry due to ongoing investigations related to referrals, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home healthcare services and physician ownership of joint ventures involving hospitals. Both federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts and the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the U.S. Department of Justice have, from time to time, established enforcement initiatives that focus on specific areas of suspected fraud and abuse. Recent initiatives include a focus on hospital billing practices. We closely monitor our billing and other hospital practices to maintain compliance with prevailing industry interpretations of applicable laws and regulations and we believe that our practices are consistent with current industry practices. However, government investigations could be initiated that are inconsistent with industry practices and prevailing interpretations of existing laws and regulations. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation had been previously available. Some of those positions appear to be inconsistent with practices that have been common within the industry and, in some cases, have not yet been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that were previously conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under fraud and abuse laws. We cannot predict whether we will be the subject of future governmental investigations or inquiries. Any determination that we have violated applicable laws or regulations or even a public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations could harm our business. The healthcare industry is subject to many laws and regulations designed to deter and prevent practices deemed by the government to be fraudulent or abusive. Unless an exception applies, the portion of the Social Security Act commonly known as the "Stark law" prohibits physicians from referring Medicare or Medi-Cal patients to providers of enumerated "designated health services" with whom the physician or a member of the physician's immediate family has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement. Such referrals are deemed to be "self 54 Table of Contents referrals" due to the physician's financial relationship with the entity providing the designated health services. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering similar legislative proposals, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated healthcare services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient's care. Companies in the hospital industry are subject to Medicare and Medi-Cal anti-fraud and abuse provisions, known as the "anti-kickback statute." As a company in the hospital industry, we are subject to the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits some business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medi-Cal and other federal healthcare programs. For example, the anti-kickback statute prohibits hospitals from paying or receiving remuneration to induce or arrange for the referral of patients or purchase of items or services covered by a federal or state healthcare program. If regulatory authorities determine that any of our hospitals' arrangements violate the anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including: •criminal penalties •civil monetary penalties; and/or •exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medi-Cal or other federal healthcare programs, any of which could impair our ability to operate one or more of our hospitals profitably. We systematically review all of our operations on an ongoing basis and believe that we are in compliance with the Stark law and similar state statutes. When evaluating strategic joint ventures or other collaborative relationships with physicians, we consider the scope and effect of these statutes and seek to structure the relationships in full compliance with their provisions. We also maintain a company-wide compliance program in order to monitor and promote our continued compliance with these and other statutory prohibitions and requirements. Nevertheless, if it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare or Medi-Cal programs and loss of government reimbursement. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government's behalf under the False Claims Act's "qui tam" or whistleblower provisions. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Defendants found to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term "knowingly" broadly. Although simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity constitutes a "knowing" submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will give rise to liability. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers, who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute and the Stark law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. In addition, a number of states, including California, have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. See "Business Description—Health Care Regulations—False Claims Act". 55 Table of Contents Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission, security and privacy of health information that require significant compliance costs, and any failure to comply with these laws could result in material criminal and civil penalties. HIPAA and California's patient privacy laws require us to comply with standards regarding the exchange of health information and the security and privacy of patient medical information within our company and with third parties, such as healthcare providers, business associates and our members. To the extent that state laws impose stricter privacy standards than HIPAA privacy regulations, HIPAA does not preempt the state standards and laws. The California Medical Information Act, and other California laws contain stringent privacy and security protections, many of which are not preempted by HIPAA, the HITECH Act, Title XIII, Div. A and Title IV, Div. B of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Pub. L. No. 111-5, greatly enhanced HIPAA's patient privacy and security obligations. Given the complexity of the HIPAA, HITECH Act and California privacy restrictions, the possibility that the regulations may change, and the fact that the regulations are subject to changing and potentially conflicting interpretation, our ability to comply with the HIPAA, HITECH Act and California privacy requirements is uncertain and the costs of compliance are significant. Furthermore, California's promulgation of stricter laws, and uncertainty regarding many aspects of California's requirements, make compliance more difficult. To the extent that we submit electronic healthcare claims and payment transactions that do not comply with the electronic data transmission standards established under HIPAA, payments to us may be delayed or denied. Additionally, the costs of complying with any changes to the HIPAA and California privacy restrictions may have a negative impact on our operations. We could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions for failing to comply with the HIPAA and California privacy restrictions, which could result in the incurrence of significant monetary penalties. See "Business Description—Health Care Regulation—HIPAA Transaction, Privacy and Security Requirements." We cannot predict the effect that health care reform and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 ("Health Care Reform Legislation") was signed into law in March 2010. In general, the Health Care Reform Legislation seeks to reduce health care costs and decrease over time the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents, by among other things, requiring employers to offer, and individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Health Care Reform Legislation due to the law's complexity and current lack of implementing regulations or interpretive guidance, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals and businesses will respond to the choices available to them under the law. Furthermore, many of the provisions of the Health Care Reform Legislation that expand insurance coverage will not become effective until 2014 or later. It is also possible that implementation of these and other provisions could be delayed or even blocked due to court challenges, and there may be efforts to repeal or amend the law. In addition, the Health Care Reform Legislation will result in increased legislative and regulatory changes in the State of California, which we are unable to predict at this time, in order for California to comply with new federal mandates, such as the requirement to establish health insurance exchanges and to participate in grants and other incentive opportunities. 56 Table of Contents The Health Care Reform Legislation contains a number of provisions designed to significantly reduce Medicare and Medicaid program spending, including reductions in Medicare market basket updates and Medicare and Medicaid disproportionate share funding. A significant portion of both our patient volumes and, as a result, our revenues is derived from government health care programs, principally Medicare and Medi-Cal. Reductions to our reimbursement under the Medicare and Medi-Cal programs by the Health Care Reform Legislation could adversely affect our business and results of operations, to the extent such reductions are not offset by increased revenues from providing care to previously uninsured individuals. Because of the many variables involved, we are unable to predict the net effect on us of the reductions in Medicare and Medi-Cal spending, the expected increases in revenues from providing care to previously uninsured individuals, and numerous other provisions in the law that may affect us. In addition to the Health Care Reform Legislation and any changes thereto, we remain subject to other legislative or regulatory changes that may take place at the federal or state level. See also "Future reforms in healthcare legislation and regulation could reduce our revenues and profitability," below. Future reforms in healthcare legislation and regulation could reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition to the Health Care Reform Legislation and any subsequent changes in such legislation, President Obama and Congress may consider other proposals for healthcare reform. Additional changes to the public health care system or the Medi-Cal and/or Medicare programs may impact our profitability. For example, a significant percentage of our revenue is based on payments received from Medicare Advantage plans. As a result, any future changes to the Medicare Advantage program may significantly affect the amounts of payment we receive for services that our providers render. Changes to the current system also may increase our administrative costs, particularly during the transition from the current payment model to the new system. Any other changes to the payment system to hospitals, such as tying payment to patient quality of care or bundling payments to hospitals to cover the costs of treating patients during and immediately after their admission, may impact our receipt of payments. In addition to the Health Care Reform Legislation, numerous other legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in recent years that would also result in major changes in the healthcare delivery system on a national or a state level. Among the other proposals that have been introduced are California healthcare coverage for the uninsured and price controls on hospitals. The State of California has also recently adopted AB 1383 which significantly changes the Medi-Cal reimbursement system for hospitals. AB 1383 provides for fee assessments on hospitals relating to Medicaid services performed over the period April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2010 that together with federal matching funds is used to fund supplemental payments to hospitals. It is possible that the State of California will propose legislation similar to AB 1383 that will take effect after December 31, 2010. Such a proposal, like AB 1383, could also include a fee or tax that together with federal matching funds could be used to fund supplemental payments to hospitals, and could result in lowered revenue at our hospital. Further, the State of California is considering various other changes to the Medi-Cal program including seeking a federal waiver to implement widespread changes that could have a significant adverse effect on our hospital's Medi-Cal revenue. Additionally, the State of California has recently enacted legislation affecting reimbursement for inpatient hospital services under Medi-Cal which (a) provides that, effective July 1, 2010, Medi-Cal payment rates shall be no higher than the rates in effect on January 1, 2010, (b) requires the California Department of Health Care Services to develop a prospective payment system based on diagnosis-related groups by June 30, 2014, and (c) requires that the payments made to hospitals for services furnished on and after July 1, 2010 will be reconciled to the amount computed to be due for such 57 Table of Contents services under the new prospective payment system once that system is developed. These changes could have a significant adverse effect on our hospitals' Medi-Cal revenue. We cannot predict whether changes will be made to the Healthcare Reform legislation or any of the proposals listed above or any other proposals will be adopted and, if adopted, no assurances can be given that their implementation will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The costs of implementing some of these proposals could be financed, in part, by reductions in the payments made to healthcare providers under Medicare, Medi-Cal, and other government programs. Future legislation, regulations, interpretations, or other changes to the healthcare system could reduce our revenues and profitability. Recently enacted legislation may require us to spend significant capital on an electronic health record system to benefit from Medicare financial incentives and avoid financial and other penalties. President Obama's desire to encourage the adoption of new health information technology has resulted in the enactment under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the "HITECH Act") of a system of incentives and disincentives for hospitals and non-hospital based physicians to purchase and use electronic health record technology. Beginning in fiscal year 2011 for hospitals and calendar year 2011 for non-hospital based physicians, the HITECH Act provides financial incentives for "meaningful" EHR users of "certified" electronic health record ("EHR") technology. To be a meaningful EHR user, hospitals and non-hospital based physicians must use certified EHR technology to meet use objectives and measures specified by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in the final rule implementing the meaningful use incentive program. Meeting the specified criteria for meaningful use may prove difficult for many providers even after they have installed certified EHR technology. Hospitals and non-hospital based physicians who become "meaningful" EHR users over the next two to three years will maximize their incentive payments under Medicare and Medicaid. Hospitals and non-hospital based physicians who are not meaningful EHR users before 2015 will have no opportunity to receive meaningful use incentive payments. The HITECH Act phases down incentive payments significantly starting in 2014, and no incentive payments will be made after 2016. Instead, from 2017-2020, Medicare hospitals and non-hospital based physicians who do not make meaningful use of EHR technology will be penalized a percentage of their Medicare reimbursements. It is possible that any participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs after 2020 may require meaningful use of certified EHR technology. We have recently entered into contracts with third party vendors that are intended to provide us with the technology and services required to (i) comply with the HITECH Act, (ii) achieve meaningful use of EHR technology prior to 2013, and (iii) receive the HITECH Act's Medicare incentive payments. We will have to expend considerable money and administrative resources under this contract to implement EHR technology. We may be unable even after the implementation of the EHR technology to meet, either initially or on an on-going basis, the meaningful use criteria required to receive the HITECH Act's Medicare incentive payments, avoid future penalties and, perhaps, even to continue to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. There can be no assurance that the Company will have sufficient financial and administrative resources and operational expertise and commitment to comply with the meaningful use criteria to benefit from the financial incentives and avoid financial and other penalties. If our affiliated physician organizations are not able to satisfy California Department of Managed Health Care financial solvency requirements, we could become subject to sanctions and our ability to do business in this segment in California could be limited or terminated. The California Department of Managed Health Care ("DMHC") has instituted financial solvency regulations. The regulations are intended to provide a formal mechanism for monitoring the financial solvency of capitated physician groups. Management believes that our affiliated physician organizations 58 Table of Contents that are subject to these regulations will be able to comply with them. However, these regulations could limit our ability to use our cash resources to make future hospital acquisitions. Under the regulations, our affiliated physician organizations are required to comply with specific criteria, including: •Maintain, at all times, a minimum "cash-to-claims ratio" (where "cash-to-claims ratio" means the organization's cash, marketable securities and certain qualified receivables, divided by the organization's total unpaid claims liability.) The regulations currently require a cash-to-claims ratio of 0.75. •Submit periodic reports to the DMHC containing various data and attestations regarding performance and financial solvency, including IBNR (incurred but not reported) calculations and documentation, and attestations as to whether or not the organization was in compliance with the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act of 1975 (the "Knox-Keene Act") requirements related to claims payment timeliness, had maintained positive tangible net equity (i.e., at least $1.00), and had maintained positive working capital (i.e., at least $1.00). In a case where an organization is not in compliance with any of the above criteria, the organization would be required to describe in the report submitted to the DMHC the reasons for non-compliance and actions to be taken to bring the organization into compliance. Further, under these regulations, the DMHC will make public some of the information contained in the reports, including, but not limited to, whether or not a particular physician organization met each of the criteria. In the event our affiliated physician organizations are not able to meet certain of the financial solvency requirements, and fail to meet subsequent corrective action plans, we could be subject to sanction, or limitations on, or removal of, our ability to do business in this segment in California. Our affiliated physician organizations had a cash-to-claims ratio at September 30, 2010 of 3.50, which was significantly in excess of the minimum DMHC requirement. We also significantly exceeded the DMHC's tangible net equity and minimum working capital requirements. Because our business is currently limited to the Southern California area, any reduction in our revenues and profitability from local economic, regulatory, environmental and other developments would not be offset by operations in other geographic areas. To date, we have developed our business within only one geographic area to take advantage of economies of scale. Due to this concentration of business in a single geographic area, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from economic, regulatory, environmental and competition changes in Southern California. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event could affect us more significantly than other companies with less geographic concentration. Specifically, mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters occur frequently in California. Potential damage and disruption in our facilities or employees' homes located in California as a result of mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters could be substantial. If we experience mudslides, earthquakes, wildfires or other natural disasters at any of our facilities or employees' homes, our reputation and results of operations could be harmed due to financial losses to repair or rebuild our facilities or disruption to our customers or employees that could hurt our ability to effectively provide our services. Should any adverse economic, regulatory, environmental or other developments occur in Southern California, our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 59 We may be unable to expand into some geographic areas, or may be unable to do so without incurring significant additional costs. We are likely to incur additional costs if we enter states or other counties in California where we do not currently operate. Our rate of expansion into other geographic areas may also be inhibited by: •our inability to develop a network of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers that meets our requirements, the requirements of the community and those of government regulators; •competition for physicians and patients; •the cost of providing healthcare services in those areas; and •demographics and population density. Accordingly, we may be unsuccessful in entering other metropolitan areas, counties or states. Our overall business results may suffer from the recent economic downturn. Recently, the U.S. economy has weakened significantly. Tightening credit markets, depressed consumer spending and higher unemployment rates continue to pressure many industries. During economic downturns, governmental entities often experience budgetary constraints as a result of increased costs and lower than expected tax collections. These budgetary constraints may result in decreased spending for health and human service programs, including Medicare, Medi-Cal and similar programs, which represent significant payor sources for our hospitals and Medical Groups. Other risks we face from general economic weakness include potential declines in the population covered under managed care agreements, patient decisions to postpone or cancel elective and non-emergent healthcare procedures, potential increases in the uninsured and underinsured populations and further difficulties in our collecting patient co-payment and deductible receivables. We must evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting on a periodic basis and publicly disclose the results of these evaluations and related matters. Our management is required to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting. We are also required to disclose in our periodic reports with the SEC any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. Compliance with these rules has resulted in increased expenses and the devotion of significant management resources. Our evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures may reveal material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we identify a material weakness, we would be required to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective and disclose this conclusion, which could harm our business. We are required to upgrade and modify our management information systems to accommodate growth in our business and changes in technology and to satisfy new government regulations. As we seek to implement these changes, we may experience complications, delays and increasing costs, which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have developed sophisticated management information systems that process and monitor patient case management and utilization of physician, hospital and ancillary services, claims receipt and claims payments, patient eligibility and other operational data required by management. These systems 60 require ongoing modifications, improvements or replacements as we expand and as new technologies become available. We have a centralized business office ("CBO") currently located in Bellflower, California to meet the management information systems needs of our four Alta hospitals. Although Brotman currently outsources all of its information technology and management information systems needs, we currently plan to integrate Brotman into our CBO in the Spring of 2011. This transition may result in substantial cost and disrupt operations. Full integration of Brotman into our CBO may take up to 24 months, or it may not even be possible. We may also be required to modify our management information systems in order to comply with new government regulations. For example, regulations adopted under HIPAA have required us to comply with new electronic healthcare transactions and conduct standards, uniform standards for data reporting, formatting and coding, and standards for ensuring the privacy of individually identifiable health information. This required us to make significant changes to our management information systems, at substantial cost. Similar modifications, improvements and replacements may be required in the future at additional substantial cost and could disrupt our operations during periods of implementation. Moreover, implementation of such systems is subject to the availability of information technology and skilled personnel to assist us in creating and implementing the systems. The complications, delays and cost of implementing these changes could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. In addition, any system failure that causes an interruption in service or availability of our systems could adversely affect operations or delay the collection of revenues. We and our hospitals and affiliated physician organizations may become subject to claims of medical malpractice or HMO bad-faith liability claims for which our insurance coverage may not be adequate. Such claims could materially increase our costs and reduce our profitability. In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising from our operations. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. To mitigate a portion of this risk, we maintain professional malpractice liability, general liability insurance coverage and managed care errors and omissions insurance for these potential claims in amounts above our self-insured retention level that we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. It is possible that successful claims against us that are within the self-insured retention level amounts, when considered in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. Furthermore, insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable self-insured retention level amounts. Also, one or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our hospitals may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms. Our subsidiary hospitals are subject to medical malpractice lawsuits, general liability lawsuits and other legal actions. We believe, based on our past experience and actuarial estimates, that our insurance coverage is sufficient to cover claims arising from the operations of our subsidiary hospitals. However, if payments for claims and related expenses exceed our estimates or if payments are required to be made by us that are not covered by insurance, our business could be harmed. If our goodwill and intangible assets become impaired, the impaired portion has to be written off, which will materially reduce the value of our assets and reduce our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. As of September 30, 2010, goodwill totaled approximately $153,250,000 and other intangible assets totaled approximately $42,159,000 for a combined total of $195,409,000, representing approximately 61 51% of our total assets. Of these amounts, approximately $24,373,000 was attributable to goodwill and approximately $2,784,000 was attributable to identifiable intangible assets recorded in connection with the Brotman Acquisition. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), we are required to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets for impairment at least on an annual basis, or more frequently if certain indicators are encountered. A two-step impairment test is used to identify potential goodwill impairment and to measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized (if any). The first step of the goodwill impairment test, which is used to identify potential impairment, compares the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired, making the second step of the impairment test unnecessary. A finding that the value of our goodwill and intangible assets has been impaired requires us to write off the impaired portion, which significantly reduces the value of our assets and reduces our net income for the year in which the write-off occurs. Our hospital revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control, including weather conditions, severity of annual flu seasons and other factors. Our hospital revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians' clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes and the intensity and timing of yearly flu outbreaks. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and volume trends, and none of these factors will be within the control of our management. The financial statements of Brotman are being presented on a standalone basis and is expected to include a Going Concern emphasis paragraph The audit opinion for those standalone financial statements reflects the fact that Brotman's auditors have concluded that there is substantial doubt about Brotman's ability to continue as a going concern, resulting from liquidity issues and the potential for the JHA debt to be called within twelve months from the date of issuance of those standalone financial statements. This uncertainty may negatively impact the carrying value of the Company's investment in Brotman and could result in the future impairment of Goodwill. No adjustments have been recorded in the consolidated financial statements from any losses that may result from this uncertainty. We also face other risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, which include: •any requirement to restate financial results in the event of inappropriate application of accounting principles; •a significant failure of our internal control over financial reporting; •failure of our prevention and control systems related to employee compliance with internal policies, including data security; •failure to protect our proprietary information; •failure of our corporate governance policies or procedures; •failure to meet covenants or requirements under our loan agreements which could impact our liquidity and ability to make future acquisitions, 62 •the fact that Brotman has a history of losses and defaults under indebtedness owed to its creditors and its ability to return to profitability is subject to its management's ability to revise and implement the turnaround plans and to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet its obligations.; •Recently issued accounting standards, not required for adoption as of September 30, 2010, are currently being monitored and reviewed for any potential impacts to the Company; and •risks that the merger disrupts our current plans and operations and the potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the transaction; •our ongoing business and management's attention may be disrupted or debated by transition or integration issues; and •the merger has and may result in litigation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 63 Table of Contents 