Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The current changing economic environment poses significant challenges for us. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by the softening of the real estate market and constrained financial markets. We have some direct exposure to the residential real estate market in our loan and securities portfolios Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans and other factors could have adverse effects on our borrowers which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. This deterioration in economic conditions coupled with a national economic recession could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses and impairment write-downs and result in the following other consequences: • Loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; 42 Table of Contents • Delinquencies and losses in the collateral backing investments may erode remaining credit enhancement resulting in additional OTTI; • Demand for our products and services may decline; • Low cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease; and • Collateral for our loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associate with our existing loans. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At December 31, 2008, commercial real estate loans totaled $260.9 million, or 32.2%, of our total loan portfolio while multi-family real estate loans totaled $85.2 million, or 10.4%, of our total loan portfolio. Commercial and multi-family real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of such loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. These loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment. Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At December 31, 2008, commercial and industrial loans totaled $118.9 million, or 14.7%, of our total loan portfolio. Our commercial and industrial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower and supporting guarantees. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory or equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. At December 31, 2008, construction loans totaled $125.7 million, or 15.4%, of our total loan portfolio while land acquisition and development loans totaled $48.5 million, or 6.0%, of our total loan portfolio. Construction and acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans and acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. 43 Table of Contents Our consumer loans generally have a higher risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2008, consumer loans totaled $32.9 million, or 4.1%, of our total loan portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these loans. Our investment portfolio includes securities which are sensitive to interest rates and spread changes and which we may be required to sell to meet our liquidity needs. Our available-for-sale portfolio totaled $273.7 million at December 31, 2008. The unrealized gains or losses in our available-for-sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact earnings and stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The risk of us realizing a loss upon a sale in our available for sale portfolio is a function of our liquidity needs and market conditions at the time of sale. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and prospects. We hold sub-prime and prime-backed mortgage securities which are subject to the performance of the underlying loans. With the severe housing downturn and economic recession, housing prices have declined significantly and borrowers are experiencing reduced cash flow to service mortgages due to job losses and unemployment. This situation has the potential of affecting the performance of our mortgage securities with losses and impairment. Our other-than-temporary impairment charges taken to-date may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses inherent in our investment portfolio. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans collateralizing our investment securities and have resulted in significant other-than-temporary impairment charges by financial institutions, including ours. If our analysis of the likelihood of collecting all remaining principal and interest owed under the contractual terms of these investments proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the investment security and may incur a loss. If we were to conclude there were unrealized losses which were other-than-temporary, which we evaluate by considering estimates of recoverability, as well as the duration and severity of the unrealized loss, we would reduce the carrying amount of the security to fair value and record a corresponding charge to income, which would also reduce our regulatory capital and negatively impact the Bank’s capital ratios. These negative impacts could significantly impact the Bank’s ability to borrow funds under credit arrangements. In addition, if the Bank determined it did not have the intent or ability to hold securities to maturity or recovery of temporary impairments, such impairments would be realized through earnings as other-than-temporary impairments. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; 44 Table of Contents • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for any probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors which are discussed in more detail under “Item 1. Business – Asset Quality – Allowance for Loan Losses.” At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $11.4 million. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict these losses or whether our allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. The anticipated Supervisory Agreement with the OTS requires us to have an independent third party review of our commercial and industrial loan portfolio and our methodology for determining our allowance for loan and lease losses. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Like other financial institutions, our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and securities and limits on increases in the rates of interest charged on our loans. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and re-pricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. We cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest. The following are some factors that may affect market interest rates, all of which are beyond our control: • inflation; • slow or stagnant economic growth or recession; • unemployment; • money supply and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board; • international disorders; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We are vulnerable to an increase in interest rates because our interest-earning assets generally have longer maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities. Under such circumstances, material and prolonged increases in 45 Table of Contents interest rates will negatively affect our net interest income. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, securities portfolio, and overall profitability. Although we attempt to manage our interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. Our net interest margin was 2.59% for the year ended December 31, 2008, compared to 2.90% for the year ended December 31, 2007, and 2.76% in the December 2008 quarter compared to 2.94% for the quarter ended December 2007. Our business is subject to economic and other general risks which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with the general economic downturn, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn, which have continued in 2008. Economic indices have shown that since the fourth quarter of 2007, the United States economy has been in a recession. This recession has been reflected in significant business failures and job losses, including the potential bankruptcies of three U.S. automobile manufacturing companies and by job losses in excess of 500,000 in each of November and December 2008. Job losses at this level continued during the first calendar quarter of 2009. In addition, in the past year, the domestic and foreign financial markets, securities trading markets and economies generally have experienced significant turmoil including, without limitation, government takeovers of troubled institutions, government brokered mergers of such firms to avoid bankruptcy or failures, bankruptcies of securities trading firms and insurance companies, failures of financial institutions and securities brokerage firms, declines in real property values, and wide fluctuations in energy prices, all of which have contributed to reduced availability of credit for businesses and consumers, elevated foreclosures on residential and commercial properties, falling home prices, reduced liquidity and a lack of stability across the entire financial sector. These recent events and the corresponding uncertainty and decline in financial markets may continue for the foreseeable future. The full extent of the repercussions to our nation’s economy in general and our business in particular are not fully known at this time. Such events may have a negative effect on (i) our ability to service our existing customers and attract new customers, (ii) the ability of our borrowers to operate their business as successfully as in the past, (iii) the financial security and net worth of our customers, and (iv) the ability of our customers to repay their loans with us in accordance with the terms thereof. We do not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market and economic conditions on us, our customers and the other financial institutions in our market. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced increases in delinquent and nonperforming loans, including construction and land loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial, multifamily, other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal 46 Table of Contents enforcement orders. Continued negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate in California, Kansas or Arizona, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease; and • collateral, for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power. A further downturn in the real estate market may adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 81.2% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Approximately 67.6% of our real property collateral is located in California, approximately 14.0% is located in the Kansas City metropolitan area, and 18.4% is in the Arizona market. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and among other things, earthquakes and other national disasters particular to our market areas. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to certain underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of prior credit histories, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves for losses in the allowance for loan losses. 47 Table of Contents We invest in interest rate contracts which can cause losses to us in excess of the value at which we carry these investments. We invest in interest rate contracts for the purpose of reducing interest rate risk and, to a much more limited extent, to enhance spread income through asset based interest rate swaps. These interest rate contracts may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors and exchange traded futures and options. At December 31, 2008, we had invested in interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $168 million. Although, we have utilized caps, floors and exchange traded futures and options in prior periods, as of December 31, 2008, we did not have any investments in such interest rate contracts. Interest rate contracts can cause losses to us that will be reflected in our statements of earnings, and the maximum potential loss reflected in our statements of earnings may exceed the value at which we carry these instruments. These losses result from changes in the market values of such interest rate contracts. At December 31, 2008, the approximate net market value of our interest rate contracts was a loss of $10.4 million. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Asset and Liability Management”. Our interest rate contracts expose us to: • basis or spread risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the interest rate contract and the hedged item; • credit risk, which is the risk of the insolvency or other inability of another party to the transaction to perform its obligations; • interest rate risk; • volatility risk, which is the risk that the expected uncertainty relating to the price of the underlying asset differs from what is anticipated; and • liquidity risk. If we suffer losses on our interest rate contracts, our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected, and our net income will decline. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. If these or any other laws, rules or regulations are adopted in the future, they could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Our temporary slowed growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We may need to raise more capital to meet the targeted capital levels of our Supervisory Agreement with the OTS and our long term business plan, and that capital may not be available. 48 Table of Contents In the expected Supervisory Agreement with the OTS, Los Padres Bank is required to meet capital ratios of 7.0% core tangible and 12.0 % risk based capital, and as of December 31, 2008, these ratios are 7.24% and 10.21%, respectively. We have a comprehensive plan to reduce assets in an effort to meet these capital levels, but we may need to raise more equity capital in order to fully satisfy the requirements. Although HWFG was successful in raising equity capital in 2008, the equity markets for banks are very distressed, and it may be difficult to raise additional capital. To the extent that we cannot meet the required capital levels, we may be subject to additional regulatory restrictions, including our ability to pay dividends on our preferred and common stock. See “Capitalization,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources,” “Regulation – Los Padres Bank – Regulatory Capital Requirements and Prompt Corrective Action” and “Subsequent Events”. Our plan to expand the franchise with additional banking offices in California, Kansas and Arizona may not be successful, which would negatively affect our growth strategy and prospects, and profitability. We have two parcels in the Phoenix metro for future development of banking centers, when economic conditions and our financial performance improves. Management estimates that it will take approximately 12 to 18 months for each new banking center to be profitable. These estimates are based on our financial model which reflects various assumptions, and we cannot give assurance that we will achieve profitability when estimated or that losses will not be greater than anticipated. While our management has significant experience in the Kansas and Arizona markets, we cannot be sure that our expansion in those markets will meet our expectations. In addition, although we have hired experienced personnel who are familiar with the markets and although our senior management has extensive knowledge of the area, we may not be successful in these operations and we may not be able to compete successfully. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our business in Kansas and Arizona, our growth strategy, financial condition, prospects and profitability may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key individuals and our ability to attract and retain banking professionals with significant experience in our local markets. We currently depend heavily on Craig J. Cerny, our Chief Executive Officer, William W. Phillips, Jr., our President, Mark Larrabee, our Region President of Kansas and Chief Commercial Lending Officer, Susan Weber, our Executive Vice President of Mortgage Lending, Vern Hansen, our Region President of Arizona, Kerril Steele, our Chief Financial Officer, John Mason our Chief Investment Officer and Rick Harrison, our President of Harrington Wealth Management Company. We believe that the prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon us because attracting suitable replacements may involve significant time and/or expense. We do not have employment agreements with Mr. Cerny, Mr. Phillips or any of our other executive officers. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services which can hurt our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily along the central coast of California, the Phoenix metro, and the Kansas City metro. Many competitors offer the banking services that we offer in our service area and in the areas we intend to expand in. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition in our market areas may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. 49 Table of Contents Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our business, financial condition and prospects may otherwise be negatively affected. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our ability to service our Trust Preferred Securities, pay dividends, and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Los Padres Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is from raising capital from third parties and the receipt of dividends from Los Padres Bank. The availability of dividends from Los Padres Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. See “Regulation – Regulation of Los Padres Bank – Capital Distributions”. The expected Supervisory Agreement contains a requirement that the payment of dividends by Los Padres Bank and HWFG has prior OTS approval. These limitations may prevent us from being able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our preferred and common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws limit the authority of our stockholders, and therefore, minority stockholders may not be able to significantly influence our governance or affairs. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including the voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws also provide for limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and prohibit cumulative voting for directors. As a result, minority stockholder representation on the board of directors may be difficult to establish. These documents also establish advance notice requirement for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. The provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws described above may, in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the current market price of the common stock and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 50 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Our expected Supervisory Agreement requires the prior approval of the FDIC to issue brokered deposits. Refer to Footnote 22 “Subsequent Events” for additional information. Deposit insurance assessments will increase substantially, which will adversely affect profits. FDIC deposit insurance expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 was $647 thousand. Deposit insurance assessments will increase in 2009 due to recent strains on the FDIC deposit insurance fund resulting from the cost of recent bank failures and an increase in the number of banks likely to fail over the next few years. On December 16, 2008, the FDIC issued a final rule increasing that assessment range for the first quarter of 2009. The FDIC has announced that it intends to issue a final rule in early 2009, to be effective on April 1, 2009, to set new assessment rates beginning with the second quarter of 2009 and to make other changes to its assessment rule. It has also stated that it may need to set a higher base rate schedule at the time of the issuance of its final assessment rate rule, depending upon the information available at that time including, without limitation, on its updated bank failure and loss projections. Additionally, the FDIC has proposed a special assessment of 10 basis points to be calculated as of June 30, 2009 and paid by September 30, 2009. Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the FRB and other governmental agencies may not help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: • Authority for the FRB to pay interest on depository institution’s reserve balances; • Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; • Temporary increase in FDIC insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and • Authority to the SEC to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Under the TARP, the Treasury has created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. 51 Table of Contents EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the FRB, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by financial institutions (such as the Bank) and bank holding companies (such as the Company). Under the program, newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009 will be insured in the event the issuing institution subsequently fails, or its holding company files for bankruptcy. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on December 31, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Stimulus Bill”), more commonly known as the economic stimulus or economic recovery package. The Stimulus Bill includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. In addition, the Stimulus Bill imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients that are in addition to those previously announced by the U.S. Treasury. The actual impact that EESA, the Stimulus Bill and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 52 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 