Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock is subject to risks inherent to our business. The material risks and uncertainties that management believes may affect our business are described below. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our business. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. This Form 10-K is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans, and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. At December 31, 2005, commercial real estate loans totaled $253.2 million, or 37.2%, of our total loan portfolio while multi-family real estate loans totaled $80.9 million, or 11.9%, of our total loan portfolio. Commercial and multi-family real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of such loans generally is dependent, in large part, on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. 37 Table of Contents These loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy generally. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced due to leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment. Repayment of our commercial and industrial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At December 31, 2005, commercial and industrial loans totaled $96.6 million, or 14.2%, of our total loan portfolio. Our commercial and industrial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory or equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. At December 31, 2005, construction loans totaled $70.9 million, or 10.4%, of our total loan portfolio while land acquisition and development loans totaled $36.1 million, or 5.3%, of our total loan portfolio. Construction and acquisition and development lending involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans and acquisition and development loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Our consumer loans generally have a higher risk of default than our other loans. At December 31, 2005, consumer loans totaled $27.9 million, or 4.1%, of our total loan portfolio. Consumer loans typically have shorter terms and lower balances with higher yields as compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, but generally carry higher risks of default. Consumer loan collections are dependent on the borrower’s continuing financial stability, and thus are more likely to be affected by adverse personal circumstances. Furthermore, the application of various federal and state laws, including bankruptcy and insolvency laws, may limit the amount which can be recovered on these loans. 38 Table of Contents Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; • the credit history of a particular borrower; • changes in economic and industry conditions; and • the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses which we believe is appropriate to provide for any probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by management through a periodic review and consideration of several factors which are discussed in more detail under “Item 1. Business – Asset Quality – Allowance for Loan Losses.” At December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses was $5.7 million. Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict these losses or whether our allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. Our business is subject to economic and other general risks which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate, could hurt our business. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. A deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown in the markets in which we operate in California, Kansas or Arizona, could result in the following consequences, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability: • loan delinquencies may increase; • problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • demand for our products and services may decline; • low cost or noninterest-bearing deposits may decrease; and 39 Table of Contents • collateral, for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power. A downturn in the real estate market may adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 83.8% of the book value of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by various types of real estate. Approximately 68.1% of our real property collateral is located in California, approximately 17.4% is located in the Kansas City metropolitan area, and 14.5% is in the Arizona market. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. If there is a significant decline in real estate values, the collateral for our loans will provide less security. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and among other things, earthquakes and other national disasters particular to our market areas. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or we may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to certain underwriting practices. These practices include analysis of prior credit histories, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves for losses in the allowance for loan losses. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Like other financial institutions, our operating results are largely dependent on our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and securities and interest expense incurred on deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income is impacted by changes in market rates of interest, the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities, prepayments on our loans and securities and limits on increases in the rates of interest charged on our loans. We expect that we will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. 40 Table of Contents We cannot control or accurately predict changes in market rates of interest. The following are some factors that may affect market interest rates, all of which are beyond our control: • inflation; • slow or stagnant economic growth or recession; • unemployment; • money supply and the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board; • international disorders; and • instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. We are vulnerable to an increase in interest rates because our interest-earning assets generally have longer maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities. Under such circumstances, material and prolonged increases in interest rates will negatively affect our net interest income. In addition, loan volume and yields are affected by market interest rates on loans, and rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of certain borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, loan origination volume, securities portfolio, and overall profitability. Although we attempt to manage our interest rate risk, we cannot assure you that we can minimize our interest rate risk. Our net interest margin was 2.83% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 2.96% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and 2.81% in the December 2005 quarter compared to 2.89% for the quarter ended December 2004. Over the last few quarters the net interest margin has stabilized near the 2.80% level. Our investment portfolio includes securities and total rate of return swaps which are sensitive to interest rates and spread changes and which we may be required to sell at a loss to meet our liquidity needs. Our available for sale portfolio totaled $387.4 million at December 31, 2005. The unrealized gains or losses in our available for sale portfolio are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until realized upon sale. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact stockholders’ equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The risk of us realizing a loss upon a sale in our available for sale portfolio is a function of our liquidity needs and market conditions at the time of sale. Failure to hold our securities until maturity or until market conditions are favorable for a sale could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, profitability and prospects. We invest in interest rate contracts which can cause losses to us in excess of the value at which we carry these investments. We invest in interest rate contracts for the purpose of reducing interest rate risk and, to a much more limited extent, to enhance spread income through asset based interest rate swaps. These interest rate contracts may include interest rate swaps, caps and floors and exchange traded futures and options. At December 31, 2005, we had invested in interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $306 million. Although, we have utilized caps, floors and exchange traded futures and options in prior periods, as of December 31, 2005, we did not have any investments in such interest rate contracts. Interest rate contracts can cause losses to us which will be reflected in our statements of earnings, and the maximum potential loss reflected in our statements of earnings may exceed the value at which we carry these 41 Table of Contents instruments. These losses result from changes in the market values of such interest rate contracts. At December 31, 2005, the approximate net market value of our interest rate contracts and total rate of return swaps was $159,682. For additional information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Asset and Liability Management.” Our interest rate contracts expose us to: • basis or spread risk, which is the risk of loss associated with variations in the spread between the interest rate contract and the hedged item; • credit risk, which is the risk of the insolvency or other inability of another party to the transaction to perform its obligations; • interest rate risk; • volatility risk, which is the risk that the expected uncertainty relating to the price of the underlying asset differs from what is anticipated; and • liquidity risk. If we suffer losses on our interest rate contracts, our business, financial condition and prospects may be negatively affected, and our net income will decline. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. If these or any other laws, rules or regulations are adopted in the future, they could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate, broker or sell loans, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated or sold by us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, due to our business strategy which has concentrated on growth and a shift in our lending focus to more commercial lending and the size and character of our available for sale and trading securities portfolio, we may be required to hold capital in excess of well capitalized levels as defined by the OTS. To the extent that Los Padres Bank fails to comply with required capital ratios, the OTS could take such failure to comply into consideration in connection with further requests to have Los Padres Bank pay dividends to us and in additional future branch applications. Los Padres Bank’s failure to comply could also impact its overall assessment by the OTS in future regulatory examinations, which, if adverse, could also impact its FDIC insurance assessment. See “Capitalization,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Capital Resources,” and “Regulation – Los Padres Bank – Regulatory Capital Requirements and Prompt Corrective Action.” 42 Table of Contents We anticipate that our existing capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the near term. However, we may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth, both internally and through acquisitions. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Our plan to expand the franchise with additional banking offices in California, Kansas and Arizona may not be successful, which would negatively affect our growth strategy and prospects, and profitability. We intend to open a banking office located in Surprise, Arizona, our third in the Phoenix metro area, in the first quarter of 2007 and a third banking office in the Kansas City metro area in mid 2006. Management estimates that it will take approximately 12 to 18 months for each of the new branches to be profitable. These estimates are based on our financial model which reflects various assumptions, and we cannot give assurance that we will achieve profitability when estimated or that losses will not be greater than anticipated. While our management has significant experience in the Kansas and Arizona markets, we cannot be sure that our expansion in that markets will meet our expectations. In addition, although we have hired experienced personnel who are familiar with the markets and although our senior management has extensive knowledge of the area, we may not be successful in these operations and we may not be able to compete successfully. If we are unsuccessful in expanding our business in Kansas and Arizona, our growth strategy, financial condition, prospects and profitability may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key individuals and our ability to attract and retain banking professionals with significant experience in our local markets. We currently depend heavily on Craig J. Cerny, our Chief Executive Officer, William W. Phillips, Jr., our President, Mark Larrabee, our Region President of Kansas and Chief Commercial Lending Officer, Susan Weber, our Executive Vice President of Mortgage Lending, Vern Hansen, our Region President of Arizona, and Rick Harrison, our President of Harrington Wealth Management Company. We believe that the prolonged unavailability or the unexpected loss of the services of these individuals could have a material adverse effect upon us because attracting suitable replacements may involve significant time and/or expense. We do not have employment agreements with Mr. Cerny, Mr. Phillips or any of our other executive officers. In order to continue our expansion, we must attract and retain experienced banking professionals. The competition to hire experienced banking professionals is intense. If we are unable to attract qualified banking professionals, our expansion plans could be delayed or curtailed. If we are unable to retain our current banking professionals, our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability may be adversely affected. We rely on the investment advice and research of an independent advisor, and the loss of services from that advisor could disrupt our business. Los Padres Bank has entered into an Investment and Interest Rate Advisory Agreement with Smith Breeden Associates, Inc., or Smith Breeden. Under the terms of the agreement, Smith Breeden provides us with investment advice and research related to Los Padres Bank’s portfolio of investments and its asset and liability management strategies. Los Padres Bank employs ‘option-adjusted pricing analysis’ with respect to the purchase and sale of mortgage-backed and related securities for its investment portfolio and relies on Smith Breeden with respect to this analysis as well as the execution of Los Padres Bank’s asset and liability management strategies. We believe that there are other investment 43 Table of Contents advisors that could perform the services currently being provided by Smith Breeden; however, there can be no assurance that an alternative investment advisor could be retained on a timely basis if Los Padres Bank’s agreement with Smith Breeden was terminated or Smith Breeden was otherwise unable to perform its services to Los Padres Bank. In addition, Smith Breeden provides consulting and investment advice for a number of other financial institutions. Although Smith Breeden has adopted a policy in order to reduce potential conflicts of interest with respect to its financial institution consulting practice, no assurance can be made that a conflict of interest would not arise which conflict could adversely affect Los Padres Bank. Craig J. Cerny, our chief executive officer, and Stanley Kon, Director, still hold a minority equity interest in Smith Breeden. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other companies that offer banking services which can hurt our business. We conduct our banking operations primarily along the central coast of California, the Phoenix metro, and the Kansas City metro areas. Many competitors offer the banking services that we offer in our service area, and in the areas we intend to expand in. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Increased competition in our market areas may result in reduced loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger customers. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain deposits, and range and quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. Technological innovation continues to contribute to greater competition in domestic and international financial services markets as technological advances enable more companies to provide financial services. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened low-end production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits and our business, financial condition and prospects may otherwise be negatively affected. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 44 Table of Contents Our ability to service our Trust Preferred Securities, pay dividends, and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Los Padres Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Los Padres Bank. The availability of dividends from Los Padres Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. See “Regulation – Regulation of Los Padres Bank – Capital Distributions.” It is possible; depending upon the financial condition of Los Padres Bank, and other factors, that the OTS could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. We are also subject to contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends under our revolving loan facility. See “Trading History and Dividend Policy.” In the event Los Padres Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Los Padres Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws limit the authority of our stockholders, and therefore minority stockholders may not be able to significantly influence our governance or affairs. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including the voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws also provide for limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and prohibit cumulative voting for directors. As a result, minority stockholder representation on the board of directors may be difficult to establish. These documents also establish advance notice requirement for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. The provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws described above may, in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us, may discourage bids for our common stock at a premium over the current market price of the common stock and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 45 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 