ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. A failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to raise capital. We need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Since exiting the taxicab medallion finance business and paying down our bank debt, the Company has been unable to successfully access the capital markets. We believe this is due to the severe current economic and credit conditions and that it has limited our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and has decreased our earnings. With certain exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, on a consolidated basis, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current loan facilities or obtain other lines of credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In December 2008, Elk applied for a commitment from SBA for $15 million in additional guaranteed debentures. In June 2009, management met with representatives from SBA to further the processing of this application. Management has had continuous communication with SBA to provide updated information on the Company and its investment portfolio, including the development of the Corporate Loan Strategy. Based upon SBA material reviewed by the Company, following the passage of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the “Recovery Act”), certain changes were made to the SBIC program. The Recovery Act changed the formula for calculating the maximum amount of outstanding leverage that can be made available to an SBIC. Based upon these changes, and discussions with SBA, Elk expects, should additional debentures be granted, that it would be immediately eligible for approximately $9.5 million in additional debentures. Elk would remain eligible to apply for approximately $10 million of additional debentures based on its current capital base. In general SBA will only approve leverage request in excess of two tiers of equity after the SBIC has clearly demonstrated consistent, sustainable profitability based on a conservative investment strategy that limits downside risk. Should the Company raise additional capital and contribute it to Elk as equity, Elk will be eligible to apply for additional debentures of approximately two times such equity. In general, the maximum amount of leverage made available to any one SBIC may not exceed 300 percent of the SBIC’s Regulatory Capital or $150 million, whichever is less. As of June 30, 2009, Elk’s Regulatory Capital was approximately $10.6 million. As of the date of this filing, SBA has not made a formal determination regarding Elk’s debenture application. Based upon our continued discussions, we remain cautiously optimistic that Elk ‘s request for additional debentures will be approved. For the reasons discussed above, we believe the amount of debentures that will be approved will be approximately $9.5 million. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on a timely basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, for each year. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under our loan agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate level income tax. Because we must make distributions to our stockholders as described above, such amounts, to the extent a stockholder is not participating in our dividend reinvestment plan, will not be available to fund investment originations. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (i) dispose of certain investments quickly or (ii) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of RIC status. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become or remain subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including, for example, non-cash income from pay-in-kind securities and deferred payment securities. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Our historical banks will not permit us to use our bank borrowings for Corporate Loans subsequent to the sale of our taxi medallion loan portfolio. Following the completion of the sale of our taxi medallion loan portfolio our banks provided the Company with available credit for real estate secured loans, but will not permit us to utilize our bank borrowings for our Corporate Loan Strategy. In order to successfully grow our Corporate Loan portfolio the Company will be required to obtain other sources of capital and/or refinance our bank lines with other banks that will permit investment in Corporate Loans. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and borrow money from banks or other financial institutions up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the Investment Company Act, equals at least 200%, subject to certain exemptive relief the Company has received with respect to calculating this amount, after such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from maintaining our status as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our Common Stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our Common Stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our Common Stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the Common Stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and, in certain instances, our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). As our Common Stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction has adversely affected our ability to raise capital. Many of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on the input of our management and audit committee. However, we may be required to value our investments more frequently as determined in good faith by our board of directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting their value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the enterprise value of the portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because su ch valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed and may differ materially from the values that we may ultimately realize. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our senior management’s ability to support our investment process; if the Company were to lose any of its senior management, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We have a small number of employees and, as a result, we depend on the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management. Our senior management team, with the assistance of outside advisors, evaluates, negotiates, structures, executes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the principals of our investment senior management team. The departure of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As we generally make investments in private companies, substantially all of these investments are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. Our investments in life settlement contracts may be further impaired or we may lose our entire investment in life settlement contracts, particularly if the underlying insurance policies are terminated or determined to be unenforceable. The life settlement contracts in which the Company has invested are relatively illiquid, which may make it difficult for us to liquidate such investments for their fair value, if at all. The Receiver appointed to operate Vibrant’s assets to date has been unsuccessful, and may continue to have difficulty, identifying a potential purchaser of our investments in life settlement contracts. In part due to the Receiver’s inability to sell such investments, the Company recorded an unrealized write-down in the Company’s life settlement portfolio. If the marketability of the life settlement contracts deteriorates, future write-downs of our investments in life settlement contracts may be necessary. In addition, if a potential purchaser or an insurance carrier determines that the life insurance policies underlying our life settlement contracts are unenforceable, the value of the policy to us could be adversely affected, which could severely limit our ability to sell our investments in life settlement contract or collect insurance proceeds upon the insured’s demise and result in a complete loss of our investment therein. One of the insurance companies who issued the policies at issue has indicated, to the Receiver, an intent to pursue litigation challenging the enforceability of the policy it issued as an improper stranger-owned life insurance policy. If successful, the insurer could rescind the policy while still retaining the premiums paid to date. In addition, to maintain the life settlement contracts in full force and effect, premiums on the underlying life insurance policies must be paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable policy. The Receiver has indicated that it does not have adequate funds to continue making paying the premiums on life insurance policies underlying Vibrant’s life settlement contracts. The Receiver has also indicated that if it cannot assure payment of the premiums, in order to fulfill its perceived obligation to protect the value of the assets in the estate, it might be compelled to sell the policies to a third party for whatever value it can obtain, even if it is less than fair value. Accordingly, it may be necessary for the Company to pay such premiums in the future in order for such policies to remain in effect. The Company’s management is currently evaluating whether making such payments is in the best interests of the Company. If the Company’s management determines that it is in the best interests of the Company, the Company may cease making such payments in the future. The failure to make such payments may result in the termination of the underlying insurance polices, which would have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment in life settlement contracts, including a total loss of our investment therein. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. As discussed above, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. Other Risk Factors We borrow money to fund our operations, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in the Company. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, investment banks and other lenders and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. 