D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business You may have difficulty enforcing a judgment issued by a court in the United States against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. 5 Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings. The devaluation of the US dollar against the NIS may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. We anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company, either presently or in the future, U.S. Holders will be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark to market” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. Holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. Holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. In light of the uncertainties described above, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel with respect to our PFIC status and no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our U.S. Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a U.S. Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the U.S. Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. U.S. Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for U.S. Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. See “Item 10. Additional Information – B. Memorandum and Articles of Association” Risks Relating to the EER Transaction On August 22, 2011, our shareholders approved the EER Transaction (following an approval by our audit committee and board of directors), together with a form of additional share purchase agreement, to be entered into between RVB and certain EER shareholders who elect to join the EER Transaction and sell their holdings in EER to RVB, in exchange for RVB shares (the "Additional SPA"). On August 31, 2011, we completed the EER Transaction and purchased a total of 7,996,210 EER shares from Greenstone, our controlling shareholder, and Accord. The closing of the Additional SPA is expected during September or October 2011, at which time we expect to issue a total of up to 96,100,358 RVB shares, in exchange for the EER shares of those additional EER shareholders who elected to become parties to the Additional SPA. For information regarding the EER Transaction and the Additional SPA, see "Item 7.B. Related Party Transactions – EER Transaction" in this shell company report. The EER Transaction may not result in the benefits that RVB currently anticipates. Achieving the expected benefits of the EER Transaction depends, among other things, on the ability to develop, market and build waste to energy facilities based on EER's PGM technology. The EER Transaction process also may result in the need to invest unanticipated additional cash resources, which may divert funds that RVB expects to use for pursuing new opportunities and other purposes and therefore, the benefits of the EER Transaction will not be realized and, as a result, RVB’s operating results may be adversely affected and its share price may decline. 6 The market price of our shares may decline following the completion of the EER Transaction The market price of RVB shares may decline following the completion of the EER Transaction, and might not meet the forecasts and valuation conducted by the Company and its consultants prior to the EER Transaction. RVB, a publically held company, is subject to certain limitations in its efforts to synergize the operations of RVB and EER. Some transactions between RVB and EER, including any termination of such transactions, will require the approval of EER's Board of Directors, and, under certain circumstances, may require the approval of the shareholders of EER and are subject to the receipt of applicable permits and approvals. In addition, any dividend or distribution from EER requires the approval of the directors of EER. As such, RVB may be limited in its ability to fully realize the synergies and other benefits of the EER Transaction. Our aggregate indemnification under the EER Share Purchase Agreement is capped at US$5,000,000, and our indemnification right is valid until December 31, 2012. According to the EER Share Purchase Agreement, each Shareholder (as defined therein), shall hold harmless and indemnify us from and against certain damages relating to, among others, inaccuracies in or breaches of any representation or warranty of such Shareholder, breaches of any covenant or obligation of such Shareholder, and proceedings relating to any such inaccuracy or breach. However, the total liability of the Shareholders is limited in the aggregate to US$5,000,000 and the total liability of each Shareholder is limited to its pro rata portion of such amount (i.e. the percentage of the ordinary shares held by each Shareholder out of the total aggregate holdings of the indemnifying shareholders in EER). In addition, any demand by RVB for indemnification related to damages, can be made no later than December 31, 2012. Consequently, if we incur damages or liabilities that are higher than US$5,000,000, or if we incur damages or liabilities, or discover such damages or liabilities, after December 31, 2012, or if any Shareholder defaults on his obligation to indemnify us under the EER Share Purchase Agreement, we would be required to bear the costs ourselves. We cannot be certain that we will have sufficient funds available to bear these costs. Further, the payment of these costs may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Relating to EER EER has a history of losses and it may incur future losses and may not achieve profitability. EER is currently focusing on research and development, as well as on the introduction of its technology and penetration into relevant markets. EER has limited operating history and consequently it has incurred net losses in each of the last three fiscal years. EER has incurred net losses of NIS 28.4 million (US$7.6 million) in 2010, NIS 28.6 million (US$7.3 million) in 2009 and NIS 32.4 million (US$9.0 million) in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, EER accumulated deficit was NIS 164.4 million (US$41.1 million). As of the date of this shell company report, EER has no source of income from the sale of products, licensing or research and development activities. In addition, EER has not yet established and operated a commercial plant which implements its technology. Therefore, EER expects that, at least for the coming years, it will continue to operate with operational losses. EER's losses could continue as EER expands its commercialization efforts, increases its marketing expenses and continues to invest in research and development. Due to the above, the extent of EER's future operating losses and the timing of becoming profitable are uncertain. In addition, EER has limited experience in commercializing its technology and is faces a number of challenges with respect to its commercialization efforts, including, among others: · EER relies on external finance for its business activity, and it may not have adequate financial or other resources; · EER may not be able to introduce its technology to the relevant markets; · EER may fail to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals for its facilities and products or may face adverse regulatory or legal actions relating to its facilities and services even if the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained; · EER may face technical and engineering difficulties relating to the development, scale-up and implementation of its technology; 7 · EER's research and development activity is conducted in collaboration with third parties, and its success depends on their efforts. In the event that such third parties discontinue their collaboration with EER, that could adversely affect EER's research and development and engineering capabilities; · EER may not be able to maintain and operate its demonstration facility in Israel, due to, among others, its inability to renew its business license or the lease agreement relating to the ground on which the demonstration facility is located; · EER depends on a small number of employees who possess both executive and technical expertise, the departure of which may affect its business; and · EER may face third party claims of intellectual property infringement. The occurrence of any one or more of these events may limit EER's ability to successfully commercialize its technology, which in turn could prevent EER from generating significant revenues and could harm its business, financial condition and results of operations. EER relies on external funding for the commercialization of its technology and services. As part of its business model, EER may enter into joint projects with third parties for the establishment of waste treatment facilities that would implement EER's technology. The estimated cost of establishing such plants ranges between tens of millions to hundreds of millions US dollars. Therefore, EER's partners, and in some cases EER itself, might need to raise significant funds on a project by project basis. External financing may not be available on a timely basis, at an attractive cost of capital, or at all. In addition, EER and/or its partners may face difficulties in raising funds for their joint projects, since EER's Plasma Gasification-Melting (PGM) technology, has not yet proven itself commercially in the field of municipal solid waste and medical waste and, therefore, senior lenders or equity providers may be reluctant to extend funds for such projects. Moreover, some of EER's target markets have previously been adversely affected by global economic slowdowns and recessions which have led to reduced consumer and governmental spending. Current and future economic slowdowns and recessions may have an adverse effect on EER's and its partners' ability to raise capital or debt at an attractive cost of capital. Consequently, EER and/or its potential partners may face difficulty to raise sufficient funds to take on new projects or establish new plants and thus EER may not be able to introduce its technology to the relevant markets. In addition, any such external financing may be dilutive to us or may require us to grant a lender a security interest in our or EER's assets. EER may require additional funding for its ongoing operations and for the commercialization of its technology and services EER's current day to day operations require substantial amounts of financial resources. As of the date of this shell company report, EER has no source of income, and it has not yet established and operated a commercial plant which implements its technology. There is no assurance that EER will be able to raise external financing on a timely basis, at an attractive cost of capital, or at all. If adequate external financing on acceptable terms is not available, EER may not be able to continue its operations, develop its technology or market its technology and services. EER's ability to commercialize its technology depends on collaboration with third parties EER's business strategy includes entering into cooperative arrangements with third parties for establishing plants and marketing EER's technology and services worldwide. There is no certainty that EER will be able to negotiate such arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, or that such arrangements will be successful in yielding commercially viable products. If EER is unable to establish such arrangements, it would require additional working capital to undertake such activities on its own and would require extensive marketing expertise that EER does not currently posses. In addition, EER could encounter significant delays in introducing its technology into certain markets or find that penetrating such markets would not be feasible without, or would be adversely affected by the absence of, such arrangements. To the extent that EER enters into such joint venture arrangements, its revenues will depend upon the robustness, stability and efforts of third parties. There is no certainty that any such arrangements will be successful. EER operates in a competitive market, and its technology has not yet proven itself commercially in the field of solid waste and medical waste EER's Plasma Gasification-Melting (PGM) technology has been developed to convert solid waste into synthesis gas and products suitable for construction materials or other uses. The core of the technology was developed at the Kurchatov Institute in Russia. This technology has been used for more than two decades for the treatment of low and intermediate level radioactive waste in Russia. The PGM technology is applicable for treatment of, among others, municipal solid waste (MSW), municipal effluent sludge, industrial waste and medical waste. The waste treatment market is a conservative market and new technologies are not easily accepted. Therefore, traditional applied technologies in the treatment of solid waste still enjoy greater market recognition compared to PGM technology and other advanced technologies, and some companies that offer solutions based on these traditional technologies have substantial experience in establishing and operating waste treatment facilities and greater financial capabilities compared to EER. In addition there is no certainty that potential customers will prefer the technology of EER over the technologies of EER's competitors, either those using traditional technologies or those using other kinds of advanced technologies for waste treatment. Additionally, the development of a more effective or cheaper technology by a competitor will have an adverse effect on EER. 8 Moreover, Plasma based, gasification based and Plasma gasification based technologies are implemented by different companies for the treatment of municipal solid waste (MSW), municipal effluent sludge, industrial waste and medical waste for more than a decade. Some of the prominent competitors in the field of PGM include Thermoselect, Ebara, S4 Energy Solution, Alter NRG and Plasco Energy Group. Most of these companies enjoy greater financial capabilities compared to EER, and some of them are located in Europe or in the U.S., and thus they are geographically closer to the EER's target markets. EER faces uncertainty relating to the costs of potential projects and the pricing of its services EER currently faces uncertainty relating to the pricing and construction costs of solid waste treatment facilities, and its marketing costs. Failure to assess its future costs correctly could result in substantial losses to EER. When calculating the profitability of potential projects, EER makes several assumptions relating to its expected income from waste treatment fees (Tipping Fees) and energy sales, as well is its expected capital and operational costs. These assumptions are based on the existing prices in the relevant markets, and, among others, the existence of certain governmental subsidies and incentive plans for "green" technologies. Price reductions or changes in such governmental subsidies and incentive plans in these markets may affect the profitability of potential project and may result in losses to EER. EER may encounter engineering difficulties relating to the scale up its technology As of the date of this shell company report, EER has not yet established and operated a commercial plant that implements its technology. The testing and demonstrations of EER's technology are done mostly in EER's demonstration facility in Israel and are limited in their duration due to the restrictions contained in EER’s operating license. While demonstrations conducted in recent years have proven that EER's technology is feasible for commercial use, EER may face unforeseeable challenges and engineering difficulties and may not be able to successfully scale up its technology for commercial use. EER's research and development activity is conducted in collaboration with third parties, and its success depends on their efforts As of the date of this shell company report, some of the research and development activity relating to EER's technology is conducted at the Royal Institute of Technology of Sweden, in collaboration with EER. Some research and development activity is also conducted in collaboration with additional third parties. The successful development of EER's technology depends on the resources, stability and efforts of such third parties. In the event that such third parties discontinue their collaboration with EER, that could adversely affect EER's research and development capabilities. Changes in the legislation, standards and regulations relating to EER’s field of operations may adversely affect its operations and profitability EER's business activity is regulated by environmental laws and regulations in the markets in which it operates. More specifically, EER's business activity is bound by the provisions of the Israeli Clean Air Law, the Israeli Hazardous Substances Law (and the Hazardous Waste License obtained in connection therewith) and additional environmental laws and regulations. In addition, EER's international business activity is expected to be subject to international and regional conventions and directives, as well as local laws, regulations and standards, relating to environmental, hazard control, medical and radioactive waste treatment, and other aspects that may be related to the establishment and operation of waste treatment facilities. EER spends substantial amounts of cash in order to comply with these regulations. Any changes in legislation, standards and regulations or any policy changes undertaken by various authorities pertaining to environmental protection under the jurisdictions EER operates in could have a significant effect on the activity of EER. Intellectual property is extremely important to EER's business, and its inability to protect its intellectual property would harm EER's competitive position As of June 28, 2011, EER has had nine active families of patent applications and patents. In addition to patents, EER relies on confidentiality agreements and similar mechanisms to protect its know-how and intellectual property, the core of which was historically developed at the Kurchatov Institute in Russia. These measures are limited in terms of their effectiveness in protecting EER’s intellectual property and could therefore prove inadequate in limiting unauthorized use of EER’s know-how. Additionally, such measures do not guarantee that other parties may not claim rights in certain know-how that is being used by EER in its research and development activities. There is also no assurance that pending patent applications will be approved, that any patents will be broad enough to protect EER's technology, will provide it with competitive advantages or will not be challenged or invalidated by third parties, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on EER's ability to do business. 9 EER's business may suffer if EER becomes involved in disputes or protracted negotiations regarding its intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of third parties EER is subject to the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement by EER of the intellectual property rights of others. There are increasing numbers of patents and patent applications in EER's industry. Third parties may assert infringement claims in the future, alleging infringement by EER's current or future technology or applications. EER may institute or otherwise be involved in litigation to protect its registered patents and/or trade secrets or know-how, challenge the validity of proprietary rights of others or defend against alleged infringement by EER of proprietary rights of others. This type of litigation is costly and diverts management’s attention from its day-to-day responsibilities of running EER's business. In addition, an adverse determination in such litigation could: · limit the value of EER's trade secrets or know how; · subject EER to significant liabilities to third parties; · require EER to seek licenses from third parties; or · prevent EER from commercializing and marketing its technology and service, any of which could have a material adverse effect on EER's business, financial condition and results of operations. EER has received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel, and it is therefore obligated to pay certain royalties to the Israeli government from sales of its products, and it is bound by the provisions of the Israeli Research and Development Law EER has received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the Office of the Chief Scientist, for the financing of a portion of its research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law 5744-1984, or the R&D Law. Under the R&D Law, royalties on the revenues derived from sales of products (and related services) developed (in all or in part) according to, or as a result of, the Office of the Chief Scientist funded plans are payable to the Israeli government, at annual rates which are determined under the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Regulations (Rate of Royalties and Rules for the Payment thereof), 1996, or the R&D Regulations, up to the aggregate amount of the grants received by the Office of the Chief Scientist, plus annual interest (as defined in the R&D Regulations). Any intellectual property developed using the Office of the Chief Scientist funds must be fully and originally owned by the Israeli company which received such funds. The R&D Law restricts the ability to transfer abroad know-how funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist. Transfer of such know-how to a foreign entity requires prior approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist, and is subject to payment of a redemption fee to the Office of the Chief Scientist calculated according to formulas provided under the R&D Law. As of the date of this shell company report, EER has received a total of NIS 1.7 million (approximately US$0.4 million), out which an amount of NIS 1.5 million (approximately US$0.35 million) has not yet been repaid by EER. If EER transfers outside of Israel know-how and technology, which were developed according to, or as a result of, the Office of the Chief Scientist funded plans, without obtaining the approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist, it may also be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of the Office of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. These restrictions on transferring technologies and/or manufacturing outside of Israel continue to apply even after EER have repaid any grants, in whole or in part. EER's dependence on a single Demo Facility magnifies the risk of an interruption in its business operations As of the date of this shell company report, EER does not own any other facility other than an operational demonstration facility, located near the village of I’billin, in Northern Israel (the "Demo Facility"). The current business license relating to the operation of the Demo Facility, which is subject to certain conditions set forth by the Israeli Ministry of Environmental Protection, is valid until December 31, 2011. The business license must be renewed on an annual basis. In the event that EER is unable to renew its business license, or if EER will not be able to meet the conditions of the new license, it could have a significant effect on its activity. 10 In addition, in September 2007, EER has entered into a lease agreement with respect to the ground on which the Demo Facility is located (the "Lease Agreement"). The original term of the Lease Agreement was three years, and EER had an option to extend the term of the rent for additional two years. EER has exercised the option in 2010, and consequently the term of the Lease Agreement was extended until July 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the Lease Agreement, the Demo Facility is the property of EER, and EER is responsible for disassembling the Demo Facility and removing it from the property at the end of the lease period. As of the date of this shell company report, there is no certainty that the term of the Lease Agreement will be extended beyond July 2012. The disassembly and the transfer of the Demo Facility to another location may require substantial investments, and may not be economically feasible for EER. Therefore, if the Lease Agreement is not extended beyond 2012, that could have a significant effect on EER's business activity. In addition, any event affecting the Demo Facility, including natural disaster, labor stoppages or armed conflict, or EER's lack of financial resources to operate the plant, may disrupt or indefinitely discontinue EER's research and development, operational and marketing capabilities and could significantly impair its business. Because of EER's small size, it depends on a small number of employees who possess both executive and technical expertise, and the loss of any of these key employees would hurt EER's ability to implement its business strategy and to compete effectively in its target markets Because of EER's small size and its reliance on employees with either executive or advanced technical skills, its success depends significantly upon the continued contributions of its officers and key personnel. All of EER's key management and technical personnel have unique expertise, which might be in high demand among its competitors, and the loss of any of these individuals could cause EER's business to suffer. In addition, EER's business operations depend heavily on the knowledge and efforts of Mr. Moshe Stern. Mr. Stern is the original founder of EER, and is responsible for the establishment and maintenance of most of EER's business relationships and collaborations. Until the closing of the EER Transaction, Mr. Stern was the chief executive officer of EER. Following the closing of the EER Transaction, Mr. Stern resigned from his position as the chief executive officer of EER, and is no longer an employee of EER. However, Mr. Stern is currently providing business development services to RVB, pursuant to the Services Agreement, and therefore EER (which is now a subsidiary of RVB) can still benefit from his knowledge and skills. If, in the future, EER is not able to benefit from Mr. Stern's knowledge and skills, that may adversely affect its relationship with existing and potential partners, its ability to raise funds its ability to commercialize its technology and services. EER might not be able effectively manage its growth If the commercialization of EER's technology and services is successful, EER's business will need to grow. Continued growth would subject EER to numerous challenges, including, among others, implementing appropriate operational and financial systems and controls, and increasing and training its manpower within a short period of time to cope with the EER's administrative, marketing, engineering and operational needs. EER's expected growth may place significant demands on its management and require financial and operational resources. If EER is unable to manage its growth, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 