D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We sold our business and currently conduct no business activities. We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. In November 2009, we sold our advanced defense training and simulation systems business, through the sale of substantially all of our assets and liabilities relating to such business, to Elbit. Since the sale to Elbit, our assets consist mainly of the cash consideration that we received from Elbit. Since the consummation of the sale of our business, we have concentrated on activities relating to the investment of our funds and the remaining aspects relating to the transfer of the business to Elbit, as well as pursuing our current plan of operation, which is to identify and evaluate suitable business opportunities and strategic alternatives, including through the acquisition of all or part of an existing business or otherwise. Other than attempting to locate business opportunities and activities relating to the investment of our funds, we do not currently conduct any operations. We do not have an agreement or understanding with any third party with respect to the future operations of the Company. We make no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. We expect to incur expenses in connection with this identification and evaluation process, whether or not such process results in an investment of our funds. While we are actively exploring strategic transactions and opportunities, we have not targeted any particular industry or specific business within an industry in which to pursue such opportunities. We may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history or other negative characteristics such as having limited earnings or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets and negative net worth. We may also pursue a business combination that will not necessarily provide us with significant financial benefits in the short or long term. In the event that we complete a business combination, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the performance of management of the target company, our ability to retain management and numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. We are aware that our controlling shareholder, Aviv Tzidon, has granted to Greenstone Industries Ltd., a public Israeli company, an option to purchase our shares held by him, directly and indirectly, and additional shares he may purchase. Such option is exercisable until March 16, 2011, as reported by Aviv Tzidon and Greenstone Industries Ltd. 4 Even if we identify an entity with whom we believe that it would be beneficial to our shareholders for us to enter into a business combination, due to competition from other entities, we may not succeed in consummating a business combination that will be beneficial to our shareholders. We expect to encounter competition from entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, private equity funds, special purpose acquisition companies, operating businesses competing for acquisitions, and blank check companies, especially as the prices of potential targets decrease due to the current global financial crisis. Many of these potential acquirers are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Such entities may possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources may be relatively limited as compared to those of many of these competitors. The current general economic and business condition around the world and any subsequent economic downturn may adversely affect our ability to consummate a business combination, the prospects of any business we may acquire and the trading price of our ordinary shares. During the past three years, and particularly since September 2008, due to the severity of the crisis affecting financial institutions in the United States and in Europe, the rising costs of various commodities, the lack of growth and economic development in the United States and the developing recession, the general economic and business condition in many countries around the world has worsened, affecting, among other things, credit ratings of borrowers, the perceived and actual credit risks faced by lenders and purchasers of debt securities, the spending habits of consumers, and the ability to procure financing. Although this current crisis may present certain opportunities to companies such as RVB that are seeking prospective business combinations, if this current crisis continues, or any further economic downturns ensue, it may adv ersely affect: (i) our ability to procure financing required for prospective business combinations; (ii) the value of businesses we acquire; and (iii) our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, this economic downturn also affects the trading prices of securities in various capital markets around the world and may significantly and adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares. When we do select a prospective target business or business in which to invest or with which to complete a business combination, we may be unable to properly ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target business operations. To the extent we complete a business combination or investment transaction, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of the acquired business or businesses. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors, or that we will have adequate resources to perform a complete due diligence process. The consummation of a business combination may lead to the dilution of the value of our shares, and may involve the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock or the issuance of debt securities. Issuance of our capital stock would have a dilutive effect over the interests of our shareholders. In the event we enter into a business combination or similar arrangement, it may involve the allocation of a significant amount of cash held by us as a result of the sale of our business to Elbit. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such business combination or investment, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, possibly significantly. In addition, we may need to raise additional financing by issuing our ordinary shares to investors, issuing debt securities or incurring bank or other debt in order to consummate business combinations or acquisitions. Due to the difficulty of raising capital in the current capital markets environment, it is possible that such ordinary shares or debt securities may be issued at discounts from prevailing market prices. The issuance of additional ordina ry shares may significantly reduce your equity interest in RVB and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. The incurrence of bank debt or the issuance of debt securities may place restrictions on our ability to operate our business, including leading to default and foreclosure on our assets, subjecting us to restrictive covenants and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing. 5 If we acquire a business or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may acquire or effect a business combination with a company located outside of Israel or the United States. In such instance, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals, tariffs and trade barriers, regulations related to customs and import/export matters, longer payment cycles, tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to Israel and the United States, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, challenges in collecting accounts receivable, cultural and language differences, employment regulations, crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks, wars and deterioration of political relatio ns with Israel. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, which could subject us to material adverse consequences. As a result of the sale of our business to Elbit, we could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”). If we do not enter into a business combination or develop an operating business or limit the nature of our investments and assets and succeed in making strategic “controlling” investments, we may be deemed to be an “investment company.” If we are deemed to be an “investment company” at any point in the future, we will not be permitted to register under the Investment Company Act without an order from the SEC permitting us to register because we are incorporated outside of the United States and, prior to being permitted to register, we would not be permitted to publicly offer or promote our securities in the United States. Such order would subject us to additional commitments and regulatory compliance. In order to avoid falling within the definition of an "investment company" under the act, we may be required to restrict our investments, in the short-term and in the long-term. Such investments might not be as favorable to us as the investments we might make if we were not concerned about being designated as an "investment company". Risks related to our location in Israel You may have difficulty enforcing a judgment issued by a court in the United States against us in Israel. We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings. Substantially all of the consideration for the sale of our business to Elbit was paid to us in US dollars. However, some of our retained assets and liabilities are denominated in NIS. The devaluation of the US dollar against the NIS may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. We anticipate that a significant portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. 6 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of RVB, which could prevent a change of control and, therefore, depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to transactions effectuating a change of control. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. These provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make difficult an acquisition of RVB, which could prevent a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. We are controlled by Aviv Tzidon who, in the aggregate, beneficially owns, directly and through A.O. Tzidon (1999) Ltd., a company wholly owned by him, approximately 49.74% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares as of February 10, 2011. Therefore, Aviv Tzidon is able to elect the majority of our directors and exercise control over the outcome of matters requiring shareholder’s approval. As of February 10, 2011, Aviv Tzidon, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors beneficially owned, directly and through A.O. Tzidon (1999) Ltd., a company wholly owned by him an aggregate of 59,142,608 of our ordinary shares representing approximately 49.74% of our currently outstanding ordinary shares; in addition Aviv Tzidon holds options to purchase 1,800,000 Ordinary Shares of RVB, which assuming their exercise, and assuming no other exercise of RVB’s convertible securities, will bring Aviv Tzidon’s holdings to 50.49% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, as of February 10, 2011. As a result, Aviv Tzidon controls the outcome of various actions that require our shareholder approval. For example, Aviv Tzidon could elect most of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which share holders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and prevent changes in control or management. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company, either presently or in the future, U.S. Holders will be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. We will be a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark to m arket” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. Holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. Holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. In light of the uncertainties described above, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel with respect to our PFIC status and no assurance can be given tha t we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our U.S. Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a U.S. Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the U.S. Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. U.S. Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for U.S. Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. 7 Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law. We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our articles of association and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. See “Item 10. Additional Information – B. Memorandum and Articles of Association.” 