ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. A failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to raise capital. We will need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. With certain exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, on a consolidated basis, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current loan facilities or obtain other lines of credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on a timely basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, for each year. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under our loan agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate level income tax. Because we must make distributions to our stockholders as described above, such amounts, to the extent a stockholder is not participating in our dividend reinvestment plan, will not be available to fund investment originations. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (i) dispose of certain investments quickly or (ii) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of RIC status. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become or remain subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including, for example, non-cash income from pay-in-kind securities and deferred payment securities. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Our banks will not permit us to use our bank borrowings for Corporate Loans subsequent to the sale of our taxi medallion loan portfolio. Following the completion of the sale of our taxi medallion loan portfolio our banks may allow us to borrow for real estate secured loans, but will not permit us to utilize our bank borrowings for our Corporate Loan Strategy. In order to successfully grow our Corporate Loan portfolio the Company will be required to obtain other sources of capital and/or renegotiate the terms of its bank lines to permit investment in Corporate Loans. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and borrow money from banks or other financial institutions up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the Investment Company Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from maintaining our status as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our Common Stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our Common Stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our Common Stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the Common Stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and, in certain instances, our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). If our Common Stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Many of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on the input of our management and audit committee. However, we may be required to value our investments more frequently as determined in good faith by our board of directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting their value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the enterprise value of the portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because su ch valuations, and particularly valuations of private investments and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed and may differ materially from the values that we may ultimately realize. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As we generally make investments in private companies, substantially all of these investments are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. As discussed above, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not consummate the sale of our taxi medallion assets. The consummation of the Loan Purchase Agreement is contingent upon certain conditions set forth in the Loan Purchase Agreement. No assurances can be given that these conditions will be satisfied by the parties to the transaction and, to the extent such conditions are not satisfied, the Agreement is subject to termination. In the event of termination, it will be more difficult to pursue the new Corporate Loan Strategy. Under the Loan Purchase Agreement, the Company may remove certain non-qualifying assets from the transaction. In the event the Company does so, such removal would reduce the net proceeds to the Company and thereby limit the extent to which the Company could pursue the Corporate Loan Strategy. Other Risk Factors We borrow money to fund our operations, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in the Company. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, investment banks and other lenders. and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our common shareholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. 