Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risks related to being a regulated entity Changes in government regulations designed to protect providers and members could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business. Our business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the federal government. These laws and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than stockholders. Changes in existing laws and rules, the enactment of new laws and rules and changing interpretations of these laws and rules could, among other things: • force us to change how we do business, • restrict revenue and enrollment growth, • increase our health benefits and administrative costs, • impose additional capital requirements, and • increase or change our claims liability. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends, distributions or administrative fees by our subsidiaries to us, it could negatively affect our business strategy. We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. We also have administrative services agreements with our subsidiaries in which we agree to provide them with services and benefits (both tangible and intangible) in exchange for the payment of a fee. If the regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or restrict or disallow the payment of the administrative fee or not allow us to recover the costs of providing the services under our administrative services agreement or require a significant change in the timing or manner in which we recover those costs, the funds available to our Company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy, expand our infrastructure, improve our information technology systems, make needed capital expenditures, service our debt and negatively impact our liquidity. Regulations could limit our profits as a percentage of revenues. Our New Jersey and Maryland subsidiaries as well as our AMERIKIDS product in Florida are subject to minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenue. Our Florida subsidiary is subject to minimum behavioral health expense levels as a percentage of behavioral health premium revenues. In New Jersey, Maryland and Florida, premium revenue recoupment may occur if these levels are not met. In addition, our Ohio subsidiary is subject to certain administrative limits. These regulatory requirements, changes in these requirements and additional requirements by our other regulators could limit our ability to increase or maintain our overall profits as a percentage of revenues, which could harm our operating results. We have been required, and may in the future be required, to make payments to the states as a result of not meeting these expense levels. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the states and we could be subject to fines and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to comply could also affect future rate determinations and membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Our Texas health plan is required to pay a rebate to the State of Texas in the event profits exceed established levels. The rebate calculation reports that we filed for the contract years ended August 31, 2000 through 2004 have been audited by a contracted auditing firm retained by the State of Texas. In their report, the auditor challenged inclusion in the rebate calculation certain expenses incurred by the Company in providing services to the health plan under the administrative services agreement. We are not certain whether there has been an ultimate determination 26 by the State of Texas with respect to the recommendation to exclude these expenses as defined in the report. The audit of the contract year ending August 31, 2005 is currently being conducted by the state contracted firm and the audit of the contract year ended August 31, 2006 is expected to commence in mid-2007. Although we believe that the rebate calculations were done appropriately, if the regulators were ultimately to disallow certain of these expenses in the rebate calculation, it could result in the requirement that we pay the State of Texas additional amounts for these prior periods and it could reduce our profitability in future periods. Failure to comply with the terms of our contracts with our government partners could negatively impact our profitability and subject us to fines and penalties. Our contracts with our government partners contain certain provisions with regards to data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, and other requirements specific to state and program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines and penalties that could impact our profitability. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the state and we could be subject to fines and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to comply could also affect future membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. In December 2006, our New Jersey subsidiary received a notice of deficiency for failure to maintain provider network requirements in several New Jersey counties as required by our Medicaid contract. We submitted to the State of New Jersey a corrective action plan and a request for a waiver of certain contractual provisions in December 2006 and January 2007. The State of New Jersey is considering our requests for waivers, and we have been granted an extension to correct the network deficiencies through June 2007. Prior to the expiration of the extension, we will work with the State of New Jersey to correct certain electronic records and to correct the network deficiencies. Although we believe that we will be able to resolve this issue, if the State of New Jersey does not grant further waivers and imposes fines and penalties our financial results could be materially impacted. Our failure to comply with government regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and limitations on our profitability. Violation of the laws or regulations governing our operations could result in the imposition of sanctions, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services, or in the extreme case, the suspension or revocation of our licenses. We can give no assurance that the terms of our contracts with the states or the manner in which we are directed to comply with our state contracts is in accordance with CMS regulations. We cannot give any assurance that we will not be subject to material fines or other sanctions in the future. If we became subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially and adversely affected. From time-to-time we have been subject to sanctions as a result of violations of marketing regulations in Florida and New York and for failure to meet timeliness of the payment requirements in New Jersey. In 2005, our Florida and New York plans were fined for marketing violations. In 2004 and 2003, our Florida plan was fined for marketing violations. Although we train our employees with respect to compliance with state and federal laws and the marketing rules of each of the states in which we do business, no assurance can be given that violations will not occur. We are, or may become subject to, various federal and state laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws. Federal and state laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent or abusive. The submission of claims to a federal or state healthcare program for items and services that are determined to be “not provided as claimed” may lead to the imposition of civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federally funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) requires all entities that receive $5.0 million or more in annual Medicaid funds to establish specific written policies for their employees, contractors, and agents regarding various false claims-related laws and whistleblower protections under such laws as well as provisions regarding their polices and procedures for detecting and preventing fraud, waste and abuse. These requirements are conditions of receiving all future payments under the Medicaid program. Entities were required to comply with the compliance 27 related provisions of the DRA by January 1, 2007. The federal government provided limited guidance regarding acceptable measures of compliance in late December 2006. We believe that we have made appropriate efforts to meet the requirements of the compliance provisions of the DRA. However, if it is determined that we have not met the requirements appropriately, we could be subject to civil penalties and/or be barred from receiving future payments under the Medicaid programs in the states in which we operate thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operation and financial condition. HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things, billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. HIPAA establishes new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including a whistle-blower program. Further, HIPAA imposes civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with the privacy and security standards set forth in the regulation. Despite a press release issued by the Department of Health and Human Services, (HHS) recommending that Congress create a private right of action under HIPAA, no such private cause of action has yet been created, and we do not know when or if such changes may be enacted. The federal government has enacted, and state governments are enacting, other fraud and abuse laws as well. Our failure to comply with HIPAA or these other laws could result in criminal or civil penalties and exclusion from Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs and could lead to the revocation of our licenses. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impact our ability to operate our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Compliance with new federal and state rules and regulations may require us to make unanticipated expenditures. The federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate have in the past and may in the future pass laws implementing regulations which have had or may have the effect of changing the way we do business or raising the cost of doing business. Regulations implementing HIPAA have had such an effect. In 2003, regulations were promulgated under HIPAA requiring the use of electronic transactions and code sets for healthcare claims and payment transactions submitted or received electronically and to protect the security and privacy of health-related information. Regulations have now been promulgated requiring the implementation of the NPI by May of 2007. Costs will be incurred in the future to implement NPI, although no estimate can be made at this time as to the cost of compliance and implementation. Changes in healthcare laws could reduce our profitability. Numerous proposals relating to changes in healthcare law have been introduced, some of which have been passed by Congress and the states in which we operate or may operate in the future. These include Medicaid reform initiatives in Florida, as well as waivers requested by states for various elements of their programs. Changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered and interpretations of existing laws and rules may also change from time-to-time. We are unable to predict what regulatory changes may occur or what effect any particular change may have on our business. Although some of the recent changes in government regulations, such as the removal of the requirements on the enrollment mix between commercial and public sector membership, have encouraged managed care participation in public sector programs, we are unable to predict whether new laws or proposals will continue to favor or hinder the growth of managed healthcare. 28 We cannot predict the outcome of these legislative or regulatory proposals, nor the effect which they might have on us. Legislation or regulations that require us to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements could seriously harm our operations and financial results. Changes in federal funding mechanisms could reduce our profitability. On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed the Budget Reconciliation Bill (the Bill) passed by Congress to reduce the size of the federal deficit. The Bill reduces federal spending by $39.5 billion over 5 years. Net savings for Medicaid totals $4.75 billion over five years, and the legislation includes a number of reforms to the Medicaid program. These reform measures include providing states with greater flexibility in establishing cost-sharing and premium payments for Medicaid beneficiaries, and provide states with increased flexibility in establishing benchmark benefit packages for Medicaid beneficiaries. In addition, the Bill tightens rules on how assets are treated for purposes of qualifying for Medicaid coverage. The Bill also makes changes to how prescription drugs are priced within the Medicaid program. The Bill includes some provisions that directly affect Medicaid managed care companies. It prohibits the further use of Medicaid provider taxes for purposes of receiving federal financial participation. In order for a provider tax to be eligible for a federal match, it must be broad based and not limited to Medicaid plans only. The legislation, however, provides an exemption for states that currently have provider taxes in effect and allows these programs to remain in existence through September of 2009. The Bill also establishes a payment ceiling for emergency room services provided by a hospital provider not under contract with a Medicaid HMO. It limits payments to no more than Medicaid Fee-For-Service amounts for out-of-network emergency services. Congress passed at the end of its session in December, 2006 a bill entitled “Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006” which limits the amount of premium tax a state can impose to 5.5% for the period of January 1, 2008 to September 30, 2011. On September 30, 2011, the tax will revert back to the 6.0% cap that had been in place under current law. The President had recommended that the cap be reduced to 3.0%, but Congress instead made a temporary reduction to 5.5%. We believe it is unlikely additional legislation will address this issue in the near future. States are beginning to examine the many changes that these pieces of legislation will bring to the Medicaid program. It is uncertain if states will make significant changes to their Medicaid programs in the near future, but such changes, depending on their scope, could impact our revenue or membership. The President’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2008 includes many initiatives involving healthcare that will be top priorities in the coming year. SCHIP, a program created in 1997, is up for reauthorization this coming year. Leaders in Congress have said this will be their top health legislative item this year. The President’s budget includes an additional $5 billion for SCHIP over the next five years. Many in Congress are advocating a major initiative to cover the estimated six million children who are uninsured and eligible for SCHIP or Medicaid, but are not currently enrolled. Legislative bills may request as much as an additional $60 billion for SCHIP over the next five years. It is likely that Congress will take some action on this issue during the coming year, although the specific Congressional actions cannot be predicted. The amount of funding, changes in eligibility, and other policy changes under the program could affect our business, positively or negatively, depending on the final legislation. The President’s budget also includes a number of regulatory and legislative initiatives for Medicaid. The Department of Health and Human Services released a proposed rule in January 2007 that would limit the use of Intergovernmental Transfer (IGT) payments by limiting payments to no more than the cost of services. This policy change, if implemented, could affect our business where IGT’s are in use, either positively or negatively depending on state policy responses. The President’s Budget also proposes changes to pricing of prescription drugs in Medicaid and how Medicare Part B and D premium payments are set and indexed. In addition, some in Congress are recommending changes to the rates of Medicare Advantage plans as a way to find budget savings. It is unclear which of these initiatives, if any, will succeed, but any of these initiatives could affect our business either, positively or negatively depending on the legislation. Finally, to address the issue of the uninsured, the President recommends capping the tax benefits an individual may receive from employer sponsored health coverage, and also to allow people who purchase health insurance on the individual market to receive the same tax benefit that employees get who receive their coverage from their 29 employer. It is expected that this issue, and other policy issues around the uninsured, will be debated throughout the year, though it is unlikely that major legislation will be passed on this topic this year. In addition, Congress and the federal government may adopt changes in Medicare reimbursement levels that might negatively affect our SNP business. Reductions in Medicaid funding by the states could substantially reduce our profitability. Most of our revenues come from state government Medicaid premiums. The base premium rate paid by each state differs, depending on a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility category. Future levels of Medicaid premium rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. Changes to Medicaid programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under such programs. States periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid. We believe that additional reductions in Medicaid payments could substantially reduce our profitability. Further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation by the state in the event of unavailability of state funds. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs. Budget problems in the states in which we operate could result in limited increases or even decreases in the premiums paid to us by the states. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. If state governments do not renew our contracts on favorable terms or we fail to retain our contracts as a result of a re-bidding process, our business will suffer. As of December 31, 2006, we served members who received healthcare benefits through 18 contracts with the regulatory entities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Three of these contracts, which are with the States of Florida, Maryland and Texas, individually accounted for 10% or more of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006, with the largest of these contracts, Texas, representing approximately 24% of our revenues. If any of our contracts were not renewed on favorable terms or were terminated for cause, our business would suffer. All our contracts have been extended until at least mid-2007. Termination or non-renewal of any single contract could materially impact our revenues and operating results. Some of our contracts are subject to a re-bidding or re-application process. For example, our Texas markets are re-bid every six years (and were last re-bid in 2005) and the District of Columbia and Florida SCHIP contracts may be re-bid during 2007. If we lost a contract through the re-bidding process, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in a specific market, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Delays in program expansions or contract changes could negatively impact our business. In any program start-up, expansion, or re-bid, the state’s ability to manage the implementation as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. These include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, membership assignment/allocation for members who do not self-select, and errors in the bidding process, as well as difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers. Our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes. For example, in 2007, we anticipate a significant increase in our business related to entering the State of Tennessee. If the State delays or changes the contract terms, including the enrollment process, marketing rules, or reimbursement rules, our business could be negatively impacted. 30 If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by the state government, and in the case of our SNP members, by the federal government. Inaccuracies in those lists would negatively affect our results of operations. Premium payments to us are based upon eligibility lists produced by government enrollment data. From time-to-time, governments require us to reimburse them for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a government later discovers contains individuals who are not in fact eligible for a government sponsored program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Alternatively, a government could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to receive payment. Our results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the government if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. If state regulatory agencies require a statutory capital level higher than the state regulations we may be required to make additional capital contributions. Our operations are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which include HMOs and one PHSP. HMOs and PHSPs are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital, as defined by each state. Additionally, state regulatory agencies may require, at their discretion, individual regulated entities to maintain statutory capital levels higher than the state regulations. If this were to occur to one of our subsidiaries, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to the affected subsidiary. Any additional capital contribution made to one of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to grow. Risks related to our business Results of our Qui Tam litigation could negatively impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. On October 30, 2006, the jury in the Qui Tam litigation against the Company and AMERIGROUP Illinois, Inc. returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiffs in the amount of $48.0 million, which under applicable law will be trebled to $144.0 million, plus penalties. The jury also found that there were 18,130 false claims. Under the Federal False Claims Act, false claims carry a penalty of between $5,500 and $11,000 per claim. Under the Illinois Whistleblower and Reward and Protection Act, 740 ILC 175/3, false claims carry a penalty of between $5,000 and $10,000 per claim. On November 22, 2006, the Court entered a judgment in the amount of $48.0 million and we posted an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount of $50.4 million with the Court to stay the execution of the judgment. All parties have filed post trial motions. We filed motions for a new trial and remittitur and for judgment as a matter of law and the plaintiffs filed motions to treble the civil judgment, impose the maximum fines and penalties and to assess attorney’s fees, costs and expenses against us. All of the post-trial motions were timely filed by the parties in January and February 2007. On February 20, 2007, the Court heard oral arguments on the post-trial motions. The Court has not yet ruled on the motions, but we expect that a ruling is imminent. In the event that the Court rules in favor of the plaintiffs’ motions, the Court could enter a judgment against us and our Illinois subsidiary in an amount up to $524.7 million, 31 plus attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses of plaintiffs’ counsel. In the event that the Court denies our motions, we intend to appeal the judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. In order to stay the execution of the judgment of the Court during the pendency of our appeal, we may be required to establish a supersedeas bond equal to an amount set forth by the Court in its final judgment, plus one year of interest. We may raise the necessary financing to collateralize a letter of credit in favor of the Court through any combination of one or more of the following: (i) borrowing additional amounts under our Credit Agreement; (ii) using existing unregulated cash and investments; (iii) issuing debt, preferred stock and/or equity securities (including debt securities or preferred stock convertible into our common equity), under our shelf registration and/or in one or more public or Rule 144A offerings or privately negotiated transactions; and/or (iv) entering into additional credit arrangements. If we incur additional debt, it may limit our access to capital in the future which could impact our ability to meet statutory net worth requirements in the states in which we do business and limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities or enter new states. Additionally, any new credit arrangement may call for significant debt service requirements and have less favorable interest terms than under our current Credit Agreement. Any issuance of equity securities or debt or preferred stock convertible into our equity securities could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Depending upon the ultimate outcome, the amount of the final judgment against us could negatively impact our liquidity and could cause any amounts borrowed, or otherwise owed, under the Credit Agreement to become due and payable. In order to ensure available funds to collateralize a letter of credit for the required supersedeas bond, on January 19, 2007, we entered into a commitment letter with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. (GSCP) and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (WCM), for a senior secured credit facility of up to $600.0 million in the aggregate (the Commitment Letter). Subject to the terms of the Commitment Letter, GSCP and WCM have committed to provide (i) up to $550.0 million of financing under a senior secured synthetic letter of credit facility (the Synthetic LC Facility) and (ii) up to $50.0 million of financing under a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolver Facility and collectively with the Synthetic LC Facility, the Facilities), each with a term of up to five years. Should the Facilities be finalized, the primary purpose of the Synthetic LC Facility would be to collateralize an irrevocable letter of credit for the supersedeas bond in order to stay the enforcement of the judgment in the event the Court enters a final judgment in excess of the initial $48.0 million jury verdict entered by the Court on November 2, 2006. The Revolver Facility would be expected to be available to refinance and supercede the Company’s existing credit facility, for ongoing working capital and general corporate purposes. The documentation governing the Facilities has not been finalized and the actual terms, amounts and uses of the Facilities may differ from those described herein. There can be no assurance that we will be able to finalize the documentation governing the Facilities or that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to close the Facilities. In the event that we are unable to close the Facilities, no assurance can be given that we would be able to (i) obtain a bond in a form necessary to stay enforcement of the judgment or (ii) arrange alternative financing necessary to obtain a bond that would not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. The Commitment Letter conditions the availability of the Facilities on certain customary closing conditions, including but not limited to (i) the absence of a material adverse change (other than the judgment), (ii) the execution of satisfactory definitive loan and closing documentation, (iii) timeframe limitations, (iv) the accuracy of our representations and warranties at closing, (v) the delivery of certain financial statements, and (vi) our satisfaction of a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum unrestricted cash balance at closing. The loan documents governing the Facilities are expected to contain representations and warranties, financial, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default as are usual and customary for financings of this kind. Our obligations under the Facilities will be secured by a first priority security interest in all of our assets and a pledge of 100% of the capital stock of each of our domestic subsidiaries (other than immaterial subsidiaries) of the Company. We have not recorded any amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any, resulting from this Qui Tam litigation. There can be no assurances that the ultimate outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. If we were to incur significant losses in connection with the Qui Tam litigation, the Company could fail to meet certain financial covenants and/or other provisions under its Credit Agreement which would render the Company in default under the 32 Credit Agreement, thereby causing, among other things, any amounts borrowed, or otherwise owed, under the Credit Agreement to become due and payable. As a result of the Qui Tam litigation, it is possible that state or federal governments will subject the Company to greater regulatory scrutiny, investigation, action, or litigation. We have proactively been in contact with all of the insurance and Medicaid regulators in the states in which we operate as well as the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services (OIG), with respect to the practices at issue in the Qui Tam litigation. In connection with our discussions with the OIG we entered into a tolling agreement with the OIG which preserves the rights that the OIG had as of October 30, 2006 until September 30, 2007. In some circumstances, state or federal governments may move to exclude a company from contracts as a result of a civil verdict under the False Claims Act. We are unable to predict at this time what, if any, further action any state of federal regulators may take. Exclusion is a discretionary step which we believe would not be commenced, if at all, until all appeals had been exhausted. Further, prior to any administrative action or exclusion taking effect, we believe we would have an opportunity to advocate our position. While the circumstances of this case do not appear to warrant such action, exclusion from doing business with the federal or any state governments could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. It is also possible that plaintiffs in other states could bring similar litigation against the Company. While we believe that the practices at issue in the Qui Tam litigation have not occurred outside of the operations of the Company’s Illinois subsidiary, a successful verdict in similar litigation in another state could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. For more information, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 7, Litigation and Capital Resources. Receipt of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums would negatively impact our revenues, profitability and cash flow. Most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member. These premiums are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract period to facilitate access to healthcare services as established by the state governments. We have less control over costs related to the provision of healthcare than we do over our selling, general and administrative expenses. Historically, our reported expenses related to health benefits as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. For example, our expenses related to health benefits were 81.1% of our premium revenue in 2006, and 84.7% of our premium revenue in 2005. If health benefits costs increase at a higher rate than premium increases, our earnings would be impacted negatively. In addition, if there is a significant delay in our receipt of premiums to offset previously incurred health benefits costs increases, our earnings could be negatively impacted. Premiums are contractually payable to us before or during the month for services that we are obligated to provide to our members. Our cash flow would be negatively impacted if premium payments are not made according to contract terms. Our inability to manage medical costs effectively would reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage medical costs. Changes in healthcare regulations and practices, level of use of healthcare services, hospital costs, pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics, new medical technologies and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as inflation levels or natural disasters, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to predict and effectively control the costs of healthcare services. Although we attempt to manage medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical management and quality management programs, and our information systems and reinsurance arrangements, we may not be able to manage costs effectively in the future. In addition, new products, such as SNP, or new markets, such as Georgia or Tennessee, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively manage medical costs. It is possible that there could be an increase in the volume or value of appeals for claims previously denied and claims previously paid to non-network providers will be appealed and subsequently reprocessed at higher amounts. This would result in an adjustment to 33 claims expense. If our costs for medical services increase, our profits could be reduced, or we may not remain profitable. We maintain reinsurance to help protect us against severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we can provide no assurance that such reinsurance coverage will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain it. Our limited ability to predict our incurred medical expenses accurately has in the past and could in the future materially impact our reported results. Our medical expenses include estimates of claims that are yet to be received, or incurred but not reported (IBNR). We estimate our IBNR medical expenses based on a number of factors, including authorization data, prior claims experience, maturity of markets, complexity and mix of products and stability of provider networks. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to medical expenses in the period during which the actual claim costs are ultimately determined or when underlying assumptions or factors used to estimate IBNR change. In 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reduce IBNR of approximately $28.7 million related to 2005 and prior periods as a result of changes in estimate based on actual claims payments through December 31, 2006. This adjustment favorably impacted our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. In addition to using our internal resources, we utilize the services of independent actuaries who are contracted on a routine basis to calculate and review the adequacy of our medical liabilities. We cannot be sure that our current or future IBNR estimates are adequate or that any further adjustments to such IBNR estimates will not harm or benefit our results of operations. Further, our inability to accurately estimate IBNR may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of the harm on our results. Though we employ our best efforts to estimate our IBNR at each reporting date, we can give no assurance that the ultimate results will not materially differ from our estimates resulting in a material increase or decrease in our health benefits expenses in the period such difference is determined. New products, such as SNP, or new markets, such as Georgia or Tennessee, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively predict medical costs. Our inability to operate new business opportunities at underwritten levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. In underwriting new business opportunities we must estimate future medical expenses. We utilize a range of information and develop numerous assumptions. The information we use can often include, but is not limited to, historical cost data, population demographics, experience from other markets, trend assumptions and other general underwriting factors. The information we utilize may be inadequate or not applicable and our assumptions may be incorrect. If our underwriting estimates are incorrect our cost experience could be materially different than expected. If costs are higher than expected, our operating results could be adversely affected. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy or integrating acquired business could adversely affect our business. Historically, acquisitions including the acquisition of Medicaid contract rights and related assets of other health plans, both in our existing service areas and in new markets, have been a significant factor in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that acquisitions similar in nature to those we have historically executed will be important to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets have greater financial resources than we have. In addition, many of the sellers are interested in either (1) selling, along with their Medicaid assets, other assets in which we do not have an interest; or (2) selling their companies, including their liabilities, as opposed to just the assets of the ongoing business. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or that we can obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions. We are currently evaluating potential acquisitions that would increase our membership, as well as acquisitions of complementary healthcare service businesses. These potential acquisitions are at various stages of consideration and discussion and we may enter into letters of intent or other agreements relating to these proposals at any time. However, we cannot predict when or whether we will actually acquire these businesses. 34 We are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. Our existing credit facility imposes certain restrictions on acquisitions. We may become subject to more limitations under any future credit facility. We may not be able to meet these restrictions. In addition to the difficulties we may face in identifying and consummating acquisitions, we will also be required to integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations, • existing provider networks, which may operate on different terms than our existing networks, • existing members, who may decide to switch to another healthcare provider, and • disparate information and record keeping systems. We may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on to our technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitably. We also may be unable to obtain sufficient additional capital resources for future acquisitions. There can be no assurance that incurring expenses to acquire a business will result in the acquisition being consummated. These expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be harmed. Failure of a new business would negatively impact our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority and obtain a state contract in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our ability to be able to process claims. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary license, winning the bid to provide service or attracting members in numbers sufficient to cover our costs, the new business would fail. We also could be obligated by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or recover start-up costs. The costs associated with starting up the business could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, if the new business does not operate at underwritten levels, our profitability could be harmed. Ineffective management of rapid growth or our inability to grow could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. We have experienced rapid growth. In 1996, we had $22.9 million of premium revenue. In 2006, we had $2,795.8 million in premium revenue. This increase represents a compounded annual growth rate of 61.7%. Depending on acquisition and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow rapidly. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to continue to recruit, hire, train and retain a substantial number of new and highly skilled medical, administrative, information technology, finance and other support personnel. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. If we continue to experience rapid growth, our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations, and our management may fail to anticipate adequately all demands that growth will place on our resources. In addition, due to the initial costs incurred upon the acquisition of new businesses, rapid growth could adversely affect our short- 35 term profitability. Our inability to manage growth effectively or our inability to grow could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to competition that impacts our ability to increase our penetration of the markets that we serve. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional state Medicaid programs that reimburse providers as care is provided. Some of the health plans with which we compete have substantially larger enrollments, greater financial and other resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do. While many states mandate health plan enrollment for Medicaid eligible participants including all of those in which we do business, the programs are voluntary in other states. Subject to limited exceptions by federally approved state applications, the federal government requires that there be choice for Medicaid recipients among managed care programs. Voluntary programs and mandated competition will impact our ability to increase our market share. In addition, in most states in which we operate we are not allowed to market directly to potential members, and therefore, we rely on creating name brand recognition through our community-based programs. Where we have only recently entered a market or compete with health plans much larger than we are, we may be at a competitive disadvantage unless and until our community-based programs and other promotional activities create brand awareness. Restrictions and covenants in our credit facility could limit our ability to take actions. On May 10, 2005, we entered into an amendment to our Credit Agreement, which, among other things, provides for commitments under our Credit Agreement of $150.0 million and terminates on May 10, 2010. The Credit Agreement was further amended on November 21, 2006 which provided for an increase in the aggregate principal amount of the letter of credit sublimit to $75.0 million. The Credit Agreement contains a provision which allows us to obtain, subject to certain conditions, an increase in revolving commitments of up to an additional $50.0 million. The proceeds of the Credit Agreement are available for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, permitted acquisitions of businesses, assets and technologies. The borrowings under the Credit Agreement will accrue interest at one of the following rates, at our option: Eurodollar plus the applicable margin or an alternate base rate plus the applicable margin. The applicable margin for Eurodollar borrowings is between 0.875% and 1.625% and the applicable margin for alternate base rate borrowings is between 0.00% and 0.75%. The applicable margin will vary depending on our leverage ratio. The Credit Agreement is secured by substantially all of the assets of AMERIGROUP and its wholly-owned subsidiary, PHP Holdings, Inc., including the stock of their respective wholly-owned managed care subsidiaries. There is a commitment fee on the unused portion of the Credit Agreement that ranges from 0.20% to 0.325%, depending on our leverage ratio. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company obtained two separate letters of credit through the Credit Agreement. A letter of credit for $217,000 was obtained in connection with standard requirements of a lease for office space for its New York subsidiary, CarePlus. A letter of credit for $50.4 million was obtained in November 2006 for the benefit of the clerk of the United States District Court for the Northern District of, Illinois on behalf of the Company and AMERIGROUP Illinois, Inc. to stay the enforcement of a judgment in Qui Tam litigation in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois pending the resolution of the post trial motions. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings. As of December 31, 2006, there were no borrowings outstanding under our Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, we must meet certain financial covenants. These financial covenants include meeting certain financial ratios and limits on capital expenditures and repurchases of our outstanding common stock. We believe we are in compliance with these financial covenants as of December 31, 2006. Events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment, could impair our operating performance, which could affect our ability to comply with the terms of the Credit Agreement. Breaching any of the covenants or restrictions could result in the unavailability of the Credit Agreement or a default under the Credit Agreement. We can provide no assurance that our assets or cash flows will be sufficient 36 to fully repay outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement or that we would be able to restructure such indebtedness on terms favorable to us. If we were unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In order to ensure available funds to collateralize a letter of credit for the required supersedeas bond, on January 19, 2007, we entered into a commitment letter with Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. (GSCP) and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC (WCM), for a senior secured credit facility of up to $600.0 million in the aggregate (the Commitment Letter). Subject to the terms of the Commitment Letter, GSCP and WCM have committed to provide (i) up to $550.0 million of financing under a senior secured synthetic letter of credit facility (the Synthetic LC Facility) and (ii) up to $50.0 million of financing under a senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolver Facility and collectively with the Synthetic LC Facility, the Facilities), each with a term of up to five years. The documentation governing the Facilities has not been finalized. The loan documents governing the Facilities are expected to contain representations and warranties, financial, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default. We expect that these representations and warranties, financial, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default will be at least as restrictive as those in the Credit Agreement. In the event that we finalize the documentation governing the Facilities and thereafter breach any of the representations and warranties, financial, affirmative and negative covenants contained therein, this could result in the unavailability of the Facilities or a default under the Facilities. We can provide no assurance that our assets or cash flows will be sufficient to fully repay any outstanding borrowings under the Facilities or that we would be able to restructure such indebtedness on terms favorable to us. If we were unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under the Facilities, the lenders could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Our inability to maintain satisfactory relationships with providers would harm our profitability. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Our provider arrangements with our primary care physicians and specialists usually are for one- to two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year terms, subject to termination by us for cause based on provider conduct or other appropriate reasons. The contracts generally may be canceled by either party upon 90 to 120 days prior written notice. Our contracts with hospitals are usually for one- to two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year periods, subject to termination for cause due to provider misconduct or other appropriate reasons. Generally, our hospital contracts may be canceled by either party without cause on 90 to 150 days prior written notice. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to service our members profitably. We will be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. Although we have established long-term relationships with many of our providers, we may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms. If we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability will be harmed. On occasion, our members obtain care from providers that are not in our network and with which we do not have contracts. To the extent that we know of such instances, we attempt to redirect their care to a network provider. We have generally reimbursed non-network providers at the rates paid to comparable network providers or at the applicable rate that the provider could have received under the traditional fee-for-service Medicaid program or at a discount therefrom. In some instances, we pay non-network providers pursuant to the terms of our contracts with the state. However, some non-network providers have requested that we pay them at their highest billing rate, or “full-billed charges.” Full-billed charges are significantly more than the amount the non- network providers could otherwise receive under the traditional fee-for-service Medicaid program. To the extent that non-network providers are successful in obtaining payment at rates in excess of the rates that we have historically paid to non-network providers, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Negative publicity regarding the managed care industry may harm our business and operating results. In the past, the managed care industry has received negative publicity. This publicity has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private litigation in the commercial sector. These factors 37 may adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our services and increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and adversely affecting our operating results. We may be subject to claims relating to medical malpractice, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Our providers and employees involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations and or eliminate the requirement that certain providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. This kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. This could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. In addition, we may be subject to other litigation that may adversely affect our business or results of operations. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liabilities that might adversely affect our business or results of operations. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would still have to defend ourselves against such claims. Any such defenses may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Changes in the number of Medicaid eligibles, or benefits provided to Medicaid eligibles or a change in mix of Medicaid eligibles could cause our operating results to suffer. Historically, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has increased more rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions. However, during such economic downturns, state budgets could decrease, causing states to attempt to cut healthcare programs, benefits and rates. If this were to happen while our membership was increasing, our results of operations could suffer. Conversely, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve, thereby causing our operating results to suffer. In either case, in the event that the Company experiences a change in product mix to less profitable product lines, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Changes in SCHIP rules restricting eligibility could cause our operating results to suffer. The states in which we operate have experienced budget deficits in the past. In Florida and Texas, the rules governing SCHIP have either recently changed, or may change in the near future, to restrict or limit eligibility for benefits through the imposition of waiting periods, enrollment caps and/or new or increased co-payments. These changes in SCHIP eligibility could cause us to experience a net loss in SCHIP membership. If the states in which we operate continue to restrict or limit SCHIP eligibility, our operating results could suffer. Our inability to integrate, manage and grow our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations. Our operations are significantly dependent on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status and other information. In November 2003, we signed a software licensing agreement with Trizetto Group Inc. for FACETS. During 2006, we continued to invest in the implementation and testing of FACETS with a staggered conversion to FACETS by health plan beginning in 2005 and continuing through 2008. As of December 31, 2006, we are processing claims payments for our Texas and Georgia health plans with dates of service subsequent to October 1, 2005 and 38 June 1, 2006, respectively, using FACETS. We estimate that our current primary claims payment system could be at full capacity within the next 24 months. We currently expect that FACETS will meet our software needs and will support our long-term growth strategies. However, if we cannot execute a successful system conversion, our operations could be disrupted, which would have a negative impact on our profitability and our ability to grow could be harmed. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. We are continually upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. For example, we acquired our New York health plan as of January 1, 2005, that uses TXEN, an information system that is different from those used by the rest of our business. We expect to continue using this system exclusively for our New York plan until such time as the New York subsidiary can be successfully integrated onto FACETS. Operating that system as a separate information system can be expected to increase our costs in the short-term, and there is no assurance that we can effect a seamless transition of the New York plan to our new system. Both the increased operational costs of this system and any difficulties in conversion to a new system could have a negative impact on our profitability. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters and medical epidemics could cause our business to suffer. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage medical costs. If an act or acts of terrorism or a natural disaster (such as a major hurricane) or a medical epidemic were to occur in markets in which we operate, our business could suffer. The results of terrorist acts or natural disasters could lead to higher than expected medical costs, network and information technology disruptions, and other related factors beyond our control, which would cause our business to suffer. A widespread epidemic in a market could cause a breakdown in the medical care delivery system which could cause our business to suffer. We are currently involved in litigation, and may become involved in future litigation, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from our business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, from time to time, we may be subject to additional legal claims. We may suffer an unfavorable outcome as a result of one or more claims, resulting in the depletion of valuable capital to pay defense costs or the costs associated with any resolution of such matters. Depending on the costs of litigation and the amount and timing of any unfavorable resolution of claims against us, our future results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. When the market price of a stock has been volatile, regardless of whether such fluctuations are related to the operating performance of a particular company, holders of that stock have sometimes initiated securities class action litigation against such company. Any class action litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 