Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risk factors discussed herein relate specifically to the risks associated with our continuing operations. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the strategic objectives that we expected to achieve in connection with the spin-off of Patriot Coal Corporation in October 2007. We may not be able to completely achieve the financial and strategic objectives of our spin-off of Patriot Coal Corporation or such objectives may be delayed in their realization if they ever occur. If a substantial portion of our long-term coal supply agreements terminate, our revenues and operating profits could suffer if we are unable to find alternate buyers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in our contracts. Most of our sales are made under coal supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. The execution of a satisfactory coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 94% of our sales volume was sold under long-term coal supply agreements. At December 31, 2007, our sales backlog, including backlog subject to price reopener and/or extension provisions, was nearly one billion tons, representing more than four years of current production in backlog. Contracts in backlog have remaining terms ranging from one to 17 years. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. We may adjust these contract prices based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. We sometimes experience a reduction in coal prices in new long-term coal supply agreements replacing some of our expiring contracts. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Moreover, some of these agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if transportation costs, which our customers typically bear, increase substantially. In addition, some of these contracts allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. Market prices for coal vary by mining region and country. As a result, we cannot predict the future strength of the coal market overall or by mining region and cannot assure you that we will be able to replace existing long-term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. In addition, one of our largest coal supply agreements is the subject of ongoing litigation and arbitration. 27 The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived 23% of our total coal revenues from sales to our five largest customers. At December 31, 2007, we had 125 coal supply agreements and trading transactions with these customers expiring at various times from 2008 to 2014. We are currently discussing the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with some of these customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales. As of December 31, 2007, certain coal supply agreements, which account for less than 5% of our tons sold, permit the customer to terminate the contract if the cost of transportation increases by an amount over specified levels in any given 12-month period. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and ocean-going vessels to deliver coal to markets. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. For example, two primary railroads serve the Powder River Basin mines. Due to the high volume of coal shipped from all Powder River Basin mines, the loss of access to rail capacity could create temporary congestion on the rail systems servicing that region. In Australia we currently ship coal through the ports of Dalrymple Bay, Gladstone, Brisbane, Newcastle and Port Kembla. In most instances, we rail coal to these ports. The Australian coal supply chains (rail and port) can be impacted by a number of factors including weather events, breakdown or underperformance of the port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems which are imposed to manage vessel queuing and demurrage. We are also susceptible to increased costs or lost sales due to Australian coal chain problems. In 2007, we experienced high demurrage costs (fees paid to third-party shipping companies for loading time that exceeded the stipulated time) and increased vessel wait times due to these problems and the high demand for Australian coal. Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions that can impact the safety of our workforce, or delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust; accidental minewater discharges; weather, flooding and natural disasters; unexpected maintenance problems; key equipment failures; variations in coal seam thickness; variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit; variations in rock and other natural materials and variations in geologic conditions. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. Despite our efforts, significant mine accidents could occur and have a substantial impact. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, and interest in further regulation, which could significantly affect demand for our products. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention. Widely publicized scientific reports in 2007, such as the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 28 Change, have also engendered widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate change. In turn, considerable and increasing government attention in the United States is being paid to global climate change and to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particularly from coal combustion by power plants. Legislation was introduced in Congress in 2006 and 2007 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States and additional legislation is likely to be introduced in the future. In addition, a growing number of states in the United States are taking steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. The U.S. Supreme Court’s recent decision in Massachusetts v. EPA ruled that the EPA improperly declined to address carbon dioxide impacts on climate change in a recent rulemaking. Although the specific rulemaking related to new motor vehicles, the reasoning of the decision could affect other federal regulatory programs, including those that directly relate to coal use. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the United States or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electric generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. Concerns about other adverse environmental effects from coal combustion have also led to increased regulation. For example, in the United States, CAIR and CAMR, both issued by the EPA in March 2005, impose increasingly stringent requirements on coal-fired power plants in order to reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, and mercury. Each of the regulations takes effect in two phases, the first phase requiring certain reductions in overall emissions by 2009-10, the second requiring additional reductions in overall emissions by 2015 under CAIR and 2018 under CAMR. Both rules have been the subject of legal challenges by environmental advocacy groups that seek larger cuts sooner. On February 2, 2008, the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia rendered a decision effectively vacating CAMR. If the decision stands, the EPA will have to revisit its standards regarding mercury emissions. Some states have independently established requirements imposing larger cuts sooner. Such requirements, in varying degrees, increase the costs of coal utilization for our customers and our prospective customers. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts from coal combustion, both in the United States and in other countries where we sell coal, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders related to the environment or employee health and safety may be adopted and may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Some of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 A number of laws, including in the U.S. the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund), impose liability relating to contamination by hazardous substances. Such liability may involve the costs of investigating or remediating contamination and damages to natural resources, as well as claims seeking to recover for property damage or personal injury caused by hazardous substances. Such liability may arise from conditions at formerly as well as currently owned or operated properties, and at properties to which hazardous substances have been sent for treatment, disposal, or other handling. Liability under CERCLA and similar state statutes is without regard to fault, and typically is joint and several, meaning that a person may be held responsible for more than its share, or even all of, the liability involved. Our mining operations involve some use of hazardous materials. In addition, we have accrued for liability arising out of contamination associated with Gold Fields Mining, LLC (Gold Fields), a dormant, non-coal-producing subsidiary of ours that was previously managed and owned by Hanson PLC, or with Gold Fields’ former affiliates. A predecessor owner of ours, Hanson PLC transferred ownership of Gold Fields to us in the February 1997 spin-off of its energy business. Gold Fields is currently a defendant in several lawsuits and has received notices of several other potential claims arising out of lead contamination from mining and milling operations it conducted in northeastern Oklahoma. Gold Fields is also involved in investigating or remediating a number of other contaminated sites. Although we have accrued for many of these liabilities known to us, the amounts of other potential losses cannot be estimated. Significant uncertainty exists as to whether claims will be pursued against Gold Fields in all cases, and where they are pursued, the amount of the eventual costs and liabilities, which could be greater or less than our accrual. Although we believe many of these liabilities are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on us, future developments, such as new information concerning areas known to be or suspected of being contaminated for which we may be responsible, the discovery of new contamination for which we may be responsible, or the inability to share costs with other parties that may be responsible for the contamination, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide postretirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees. We calculated the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under SFAS No. 106, “Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions,” which we estimate had a present value of $855.8 million as of December 31, 2007, $70.1 million of which was a current liability. We have estimated these unfunded obligations based on assumptions described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially higher. Moreover, regulatory changes or changes to Medicare benefit levels could increase our obligations to provide these or additional benefits. We are party to an agreement with the PBGC and TXU Europe Limited, an affiliate of our former parent corporation, under which we are required to make specified contributions to two of our defined benefit pension plans and to maintain a $37.0 million letter of credit in favor of the PBGC. If we or the PBGC give notice of an intent to terminate one or more of the covered pension plans in which liabilities are not fully funded, or if we fail to maintain the letter of credit, the PBGC may draw down on the letter of credit and use the proceeds to satisfy liabilities under the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. The PBGC, however, is required to first apply amounts received from a $110.0 million guaranty in place from TXU Europe Limited in favor of the PBGC before it draws on our letter of credit. On November 19, 2002, TXU Europe Limited was placed under the administration process in the United Kingdom (a process similar to bankruptcy proceedings in the United States) and continues under this process as of December 31, 2007. The United Mine Workers of America Combined Fund was created by federal law in 1992. This multi-employer fund provides health care benefits to a closed group of retirees including retired employees of our former subsidiaries (now owned by Patriot Coal Corporation) who last worked prior to 1976, as well as orphaned beneficiaries of bankrupt companies who were receiving benefits as orphans prior to the 1992 law. 30 No new retirees will be added to this group. The liability is subject to increases or decreases in per capita health care costs, offset by the mortality curve in this aging population of beneficiaries. Another fund, the 1992 Benefit Plan created by the same federal law in 1992, provides benefits to qualifying retired former employees of bankrupt companies who have defaulted in providing their former employees with retiree medical benefits. Beneficiaries continue to be added to this fund as employers default in providing their former employees with retiree medical benefits, but the overall exposure for new beneficiaries into this fund is limited to retirees covered under their employer’s plan who retired prior to October 1, 1994. A third fund, the 1993 Benefit Plan, was established through collective bargaining and provides benefits to qualifying retired former employees who retired after September 30, 1994 of certain signatory companies who have gone out of business and have defaulted in providing their former employees with retiree medical benefits. Beneficiaries continue to be added to this fund as employers go out of business. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act Amendments of 2006 (the 2006 Act) authorizes a specified amount of federal funds to pay for these programs on a phased-in basis and other programs. To the extent that (i) the annual retiree health care funding requirement exceeds the specified amount of federal funds, (ii) Congress does not allocate additional funds to cover the shortfall, and (iii) Patriot’s subsidiaries do not pay for their share of the shortfall, some of our subsidiaries would be responsible for the additional costs. A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires could decrease our anticipated profitability. Our mining operations require a reliable supply of replacement parts, explosives, fuel, tires, steel-related products (including roof control) and lubricants. If the cost of any of these inputs increased significantly, or if a source for these supplies or mining equipment were unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced from our current expectations. Recent consolidation of suppliers of explosives has limited the number of sources for these materials, and our current supply of explosives is concentrated with one supplier. Further, our purchases of some items of underground mining equipment are concentrated with one principal supplier. Over the past few years, industry-wide demand growth has exceeded supply growth for certain surface and underground mining equipment and other capital equipment as well as off-the-road tires. As a result, lead times for some items have increased significantly. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue acquiring and developing coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our reserves. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities or acquiring properties containing economically recoverable reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our reserves through acquisitions of government and other leases and producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. The federal government also leases natural gas and coalbed methane reserves in the West, including in the Powder River Basin. Some of these natural gas and coalbed methane reserves are located on, or adjacent to, some of our Powder River Basin reserves, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and lessees of those interests. Other lessees’ rights relating to these mineral interests could prevent, delay or increase the cost of developing our coal reserves. These lessees may also seek damages from us based on claims that our coal mining operations impair their interests. Additionally, the federal government limits the amount of federal land that may be leased by any company to 150,000 acres nationwide. As of December 31, 2007, we leased a total of 63,463 acres from the federal government. The limit could restrict our ability to lease additional federal lands. For additional discussion of our federal leases see 