Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves certain risks. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our available liquidity is currently insufficient to fund our needs beyond the near term and our failure to successfully execute on our current strategies could result in our running out of liquidity by the first quarter of 2009 or sooner. Since December 31, 2007, our available liquidity has diminished significantly (see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources”) and we have fully drawn down all of our available external sources of liquidity. The declines in the fair value of invested assets that serve as collateral to support our business have increased our liquidity needs. We have initiated actions to address our liquidity needs, including terminating the writing of new business, selling our Life Reinsurance International Segment and our Wealth Management business, reducing our cost structure, negotiating forbearance from the relevant counterparties to our collateral finance facilities and, ultimately, pursuing a sale of our Life Reinsurance North America Segment. Our inability to successfully execute one or more of these strategies could result in our running out of liquidity by the first quarter of 2009, and potentially sooner, depending upon the extent of continuing declines in the fair value of our invested assets, our inability to obtain future forbearance from the relevant counterparties to HSBC II and Clearwater Re and our ability to raise additional capital to support our corporate financial obligations. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in executing any or all of our strategies. In light of these circumstances, the audit opinion issued by Ernst & Young, our independent accountants, for the year ended December 31, 2007 includes an explanatory paragraph for a “going concern” uncertainty. See Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Basis of Presentation - Going Concern” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to successfully execute our current strategies, we will be required to raise new sources of equity or debt capital, which sources may not be available, or if available, will likely be on significantly less advantageous terms than our historical sources. As described in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity”, our liquidity has decreased significantly since December 31, 2007. If we were required to raise additional capital to meet such liquidity needs, our ability to raise such capital will be significantly constrained because of our (1) current financial condition and (2) delisting from the New York Stock Exchange and the deregistration of our securities under the federal securities laws. Even if we were able to raise such capital, it would be on terms significantly less advantageous than our historical sources of funding. 19 Table of Contents Our statutory capital position and our ability to continue to take reserve credit for the reinsurance ceded to Ballantyne Re and Orkney Re II has been significantly reduced as a result of fair value declines in our sub-prime and Alt-A securities. The capital raised by Ballantyne Re and Orkney Re II was invested by third-party investment managers pursuant to investment guidelines established at the time of formation of each entity. As of December 31, 2007, amortized cost of $1,326.1 million, or approximately 54.1%, of Ballantyne Re’s assets are invested in sub-prime and Alt-A securities. As of December 31, 2007, amortized cost of $348.7 million, or approximately 59.3%, of Orkney Re II’s assets are invested in sub-prime and Alt-A securities. As a result of significant declines in fair values of these securities in the second half of 2007, the fair value of assets held within the various trust accounts supporting SRUS’s statutory reserve credit have declined substantially. In addition, the fair value of these assets has continued to decline in 2008. Moreover, if the fair value of surplus assets held by Ballantyne Re and/or Orkney Re II declines further, each entity may be in default to its investors. In the event of such a default, no additional funding would be available from the applicable facility for the projected reserve growth associated with the business ceded to it. We could be adversely impacted to the extent that the fair value of assets falls below statutory reserve levels or there is a default within one or both of these structures. On March 31, 2008, we entered into a LOI with ING which allowed us to recapture up to $375.0 million of excess statutory reserves from Ballantyne Re and required ING to post letters of credit to support the related statutory reserves. On May 6, 2008, we completed this transaction and recaptured approximately 30% of the business in Ballantyne Re, effective as of March 31, 2008. This business was in turn recaptured by ING and ultimately ceded to SRD, utilizing the entire amount of the $375.0 million of letters of credit made available to us by ING. On June 30, 2008, we amended our existing binding LOI with ING and we entered into the separate binding Assignment Letter of Intent. The two agreements allow us to permanently assign the Ballantyne Re reinsurance agreement to ING, or in the alternative, to recapture a portion of the Ballantyne Re business prior to completion of the assignment, if we deem it necessary to do so, in order to allow SRUS to obtain statutory reserve credit. We will bear the costs of any additional LOC fees which arise from either a recapture by us prior to the assignment or a recapture by ING after the assignment and the higher LOC fees will adversely impact our liquidity position. Although we believe we have permanently resolved any reserve credit exposure that SRUS has with respect to Ballantyne Re, we still need to execute final agreements pursuant to the Assignment Letter of Intent. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in completing the assignment. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Recapture and Assignment Agreements with Counterparties.” On May 9, 2008, we executed amendments to certain transaction documents for Orkney Re II to give us flexibility in dealing with additional near and long term estimated fair value declines in the sub-prime and Alt-A securities held by Orkney Re II. The amendments eliminate certain priority of payment limitations and provide us with the ability to efficiently and economically recapture business from Orkney Re II. To the extent that we continue to experience fair value declines in the sub-prime and Alt-A assets, we may need to recapture a pro-rata portion of the underlying business in Orkney Re II and find alternative collateral support for the recaptured business. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in securing alternative collateral support. Our inability to comply with the terms of our forbearance agreements, or renew or replace the forbearance agreements prior to December 15, 2008 could result in us having to seek bankruptcy protection. On June 30, 2008, we executed forbearance agreements with the relevant counterparties to the Clearwater Re and HSBC II collateral finance facilities. The relevant counterparties have agreed to forbear taking action until December 15, 2008. In order to achieve forbearance, we agreed to both economic and non-economic terms, which have led to additional constraints on our available liquidity. We believe the forbearance agreements give us adequate time to execute our revised strategic focus and seek out, if necessary, potential alternative collateral support to each of these facilities. To the extent we are unsuccessful (1) in complying with the terms of the forbearance agreements during the forbearance period, (2) executing our revised strategic focus or (3) finding alternative collateral support for each facility, prior to the end of the forbearance periods, we will be in default of the forbearance agreements and may need to consider seeking bankruptcy protection. No assurances can be given that 20 Table of Contents we will succeed in executing on our revised strategic focus, finding alternative collateral support for the facilities, or obtaining additional forbearance from the relevant counterparties. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Forbearance Agreements with Counterparties.” Our inability to successfully sell our Life Reinsurance North America Segment in a timely manner could result in us having to seek bankruptcy protection. As originally disclosed on February 22, 2008, we announced our plan to develop, through strategic alliances or other means, opportunities to maximize the value of our core competitive capabilities within the Life Reinsurance North America Segment, including mortality assessment and treaty administration. Shortly after this announcement, we received a number of inquiries and expressions of interest to acquire our Life Reinsurance North America Segment and concluded that a sale may provide the best method for preserving capital and liquidity and maximizing shareholder value. If we are not successful in reaching a definitive agreement for the sale of our Life Insurance North America Segment by December 15, 2008 we will continue to follow a run-off strategy and will need to (1) obtain additional forbearance from the relevant counterparties to Clearwater Re and HSBC II; (2) find alternative collateral support for Clearwater Re and HSBC II or (3) raise additional capital. If we fail to successfully execute on these actions, our insurance operating subsidiaries may become insolvent and we many need to seek bankruptcy protection. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in executing any or all of these actions. Additional adverse impact from our annual asset adequacy analysis could materially impact our business. We are required to conduct an annual asset adequacy analysis under U.S. Statutory Accounting Rules. As of December 31, 2007, formula reserves at SRUS were strengthened by $208 million which had a material adverse impact to our liquidity position. The primary factors driving the reserve strengthening were a decrease in the interest rate environment, higher allocated maintenance expenses, lower than expected cash flows from the annuity business and revised lapse assumptions for the life insurance business. There can be no assurances that these, or other factors, will not require us to further strengthen reserves at SRUS or any other of our operating subsidiaries in the future. Our inability to successfully close the sales of our Life Reinsurance International Segment and Wealth Management business could materially impact our business. We have assumed, for purposes of our liquidity forecast, that we will close the sales of our Life Reinsurance International Segment and Wealth Management business in the third quarter of 2008. To the extent we do not complete the closing of these transactions in a timely manner and realize the forecasted sales proceeds, our liquidity position will be negatively impacted. Our inability to attract and retain qualified executives and employees or the loss of any of these personnel could negatively impact our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executives and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of George Zippel, our President and Chief Executive Officer; Terry Eleftheriou, our Chief Financial Officer; Chris Shanahan, the interim Chief Executive Officer of our Life Reinsurance North America Segment; David Howell, the Chief Executive Officer of our Life Reinsurance International Segment; Paul Goldean, our Chief Administration Officer; Michael Baumstein, our Chief Investment Officer; Dan Roth, our Chief Restructuring Officer; and Meredith Ratajczak, the Chief Actuary and Interim Chief Financial Officer of our Life Reinsurance North America Segment. Each of the foregoing members of senior management has an employment agreement. The loss of the services of members of our senior management team, including as a result of the expiration of an employment agreement pursuant to its terms, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel from the very limited pool of qualified insurance professionals, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy which could negatively impact our business. 21 Table of Contents In addition to the officers listed above, we require key staff with reinsurance, investment, accounting and administrative skills. Given our current business situation, it may be difficult for us to retain and replace key staff. Accordingly, we have implemented a number of programs to retain key executives and staff. No assurances can be given that any one or a combination of these programs will be successful to retain key employees necessary to implement our plans. See Item 11—“Executive Compensation.” Our ability to pay dividends depends on our subsidiaries’ ability to distribute funds to us. We are a holding company, with our principal assets consisting of the stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and our non-cumulative perpetual preferred shares, and to pay debt service on any of our indebtedness, depends significantly on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries, our principal sources of cash flow, to declare and distribute dividends or to advance money to us in the form of inter-company loans or service fees. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to various state and foreign government statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance companies generally that limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances and other payments to affiliates. If insurance regulators at any time determine that payment of a dividend or any other payment to an affiliate would be detrimental to an insurance subsidiary’s policyholders or creditors, because of the financial condition of the insurance subsidiary or otherwise, the regulators may block dividends or other payments to affiliates that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. We have also agreed in a forbearance agreement with HSBC that forbearance will terminate if we declare any cash dividends, return any capital, or make a capital distribution or other payment. We agreed to a similar covenant with the counterparties in the Clearwater Re collateral finance facility. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) we entered into with the Investors in connection with the 2007 New Capital Transaction, we have agreed not to declare any dividends, other than on currently outstanding preferred securities. On April 14, 2008, we announced that pursuant to the Certificate of Designations for our non-cumulative perpetual preferred shares (the “Perpetual Preferred Shares”) we may be precluded from declaring and paying dividends on the October 15, 2008 dividend payment date because we may not meet certain financial tests under the terms of the Perpetual Preferred Shares required for us to pay such dividends. In addition, we also announced that, given our current financial condition, our Board of Directors in its discretion had decided not to declare a dividend for the April 15, 2008 dividend payment date. Furthermore, on July 3, 2008, the Board determined that in light of our financial condition and in accordance with the terms of our forbearance agreements with the relevant counterparties to the Clearwater Re and HSBC II collateral finance facilities, we would suspend the cash dividend for the July 15, 2008 payment date. Our investment portfolio has significant exposure to sub-prime and Alt-A securities; in recent periods, we have suffered substantial realized and unrealized investment losses related to this exposure, which has adversely affected our financial condition, and we could suffer additional losses in future periods. Recently, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. We have exposure to the sub-prime market as a result of securities held in our investment portfolio, as described in more detail under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Structured Securities Backed by Sub-prime and Alt-A Residential Mortgage Loans.” Due to these recent developments, especially in the sub-prime sector, we have suffered significant realized losses of $780.3 million during the fourth quarter of 2007 and estimate additional losses of $751.7 million for the period ended March 31, 2008; as the market for these securities continues to be highly volatile and illiquid, there is a risk that these investment values may further decline, which may adversely affect our financial condition. In addition, while we have designed our investment policy with the objective of meeting our reinsurance obligations while increasing value to our shareholders, if we are not successful in implementing our investment policy, or if the policy does not address all of the risks relating to our investments, our financial condition may be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents We face the risk of continued declines in the estimated fair values of our invested assets which could adversely affect our earnings, liquidity position and financial condition. Decreases in the estimated fair value of our investments in portfolios providing reserve credit to SRUS can result in a reserve credit shortfall that can adversely impact SRUS’s solvency such that the shortfalls may need to be satisfied by either drawing on our limited liquidity, raising new capital, or completing additional financing facilities. Our invested assets are subject to: • market risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value due to a change in the yields realized on our assets and prevailing market yields for similar assets, including changes in credit spreads, or an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investment. Estimated fair value decreases for trust assets used to obtain reserve credit may result in loss of reinsurance reserve credit to the extent the estimated fair value of assets is less than the statutory reserves; • credit risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value due to a deterioration in the creditworthiness, downgrade in the credit rating, or default of the issuer of the investment; • reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less interest than expected; and • liquidity risk, which is the risk that investments must be liquidated at an undesirable time to satisfy liability cash outflows due to a mismatch of the timing of asset and liability cash flows. Our invested assets have significant exposure to market and credit risk, particularly in portfolios invested in sub-prime and Alt-A securities as detailed under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Financial Condition – Structured Securities Backed by Sub-prime and Alt-A Residential Mortgage Loans.” Our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”), and collateralized mortgage obligations (“CMO”), which are exposed to reinvestment risk. As of December 31, 2007, MBSs and CMOs constituted approximately 19.3% of our invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities will fluctuate depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and MBSs and CMOs are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current-market rates. General economic conditions affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets. Unexpected changes in general economic conditions could create volatility or illiquidity in these markets in which we hold positions and harm our investment return. We may enter into foreign currency, interest rate and credit derivatives and other hedging transactions in an effort to manage investment risks. Structuring these derivatives and hedges so as to effectively manage these risks is an inherently uncertain process. If our calculations are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our derivatives or hedges, we may have unexpected losses and our assets may not be adequate to meet our needed reserves, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. In certain reinsurance contracts and in our collateral finance facilities we do not maintain control of the invested assets, which may limit our ability to control investment risks on these assets and may expose us to credit risk of the ceding company. As part of our business we enter into reinsurance agreements on a modified coinsurance and funds withheld coinsurance basis. In these transactions, the ceding insurance company retains the assets supporting the ceded business and manages them for our account. As of December 31, 2007, $1.65 billion of assets were held by ceding companies at fair value to support the statutory reserves of $1.60 billion required by the structures under such agreements recorded under “funds withheld at interest” on our consolidated balance sheet. Although the ceding company must adhere to general standards agreed to by us for the management of these assets, we do not control the 23 Table of Contents selection of the specific investments or the timing of the purchase or sale of investments made by the ceding company. Accordingly, we may be at risk if the ceding company selects investments that deviate from our agreed standards or if the ceding company performs poorly in the purchase, sale and management of those assets. In addition, these assets are not segregated from the ceding company’s other assets, and we may not be able to recover all of these assets in the event of the insolvency of the ceding insurer. In certain other reinsurance arrangements, we may place assets in a trust in order to provide the ceding company with credit for reinsurance on its financial statements. Although we generally have the right to direct the investment of assets in these trusts, in the event of the insolvency of the ceding company, its receiver may attempt to take control of those assets. As at December 31, 2007 and 2006, $44.4 million and $39.9 million, respectively, of assets were placed in the aforementioned trusts. The funds held by each of our three securitizations, Orkney I, Orkney Re II and Ballantyne Re are managed by third-party investment managers pursuant to investment guidelines established at the formation of each entity. We are not able to revise such investment guidelines without the consent of the financial guarantors involved in each transaction. The investment guidelines for Orkney Re II and Ballantyne Re have been amended to provide flexibility to address the needs of the current portfolio and to reduce the forced sale of securities. We have also received waivers from the appropriate financial guarantors to hold certain securities that are no longer compliant with the initial investment guidelines. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Investments.” Interest rate fluctuations could lower the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and interest we pay under our reinsurance contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not earning income or experiencing losses based on the difference between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited interest rates paid on outstanding reinsurance contracts. Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities will likely bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure life insurance policies or annuities with cash value components. A majority of our annuity and certain other products have multi-year guarantees and guaranteed floors on their crediting rates. During periods of rising interest rates, we may be contractually obligated to increase the crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure annuities or life insurance policies with cash value components. We may not, however, have the ability to immediately acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset the increased crediting rates under our reinsurance contracts. Although we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, significant changes in interest rates caused by factors beyond our control such as changes in governmental monetary policy or political conditions may negatively affect our interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain insurance and investment products of our customers, which would reduce the demand for our reinsurance of these products. Inadequate risk analysis and underwriting may result in a decline in our profits. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess and manage the risks associated with the business that we reinsure. We have developed risk analysis and underwriting guidelines, policies, and procedures with the objective of controlling the quality of the business as well as the pricing of the risks we are assuming. Among other things, these processes rely heavily on our underwriting, our analysis of mortality trends and lapse rates, and our understanding of medical improvements and their impact on mortality. If these processes are inadequate or are based on inadequate information, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may not be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by, and information provided to us by, ceding companies. For example, we incurred a charge to net income of $10.4 million in the third quarter of 24 Table of Contents 2003 when we discovered that one of our ceding insurers had under reported death claims to us over a three-year period. This example continues as the largest to date. We are also subject to the risk that the ceding clients may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assumed. To the extent actual claims exceed our underlying assumptions, we will be required to increase our liabilities, which will reduce our profits in the period in which we identify the deficiency. Reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of what we ultimately expect to pay out on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as persistency and interest rates. Because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Our life reinsurance contracts and variable life insurance policies expose us to mortality risk which could negatively affect our net income. Mortality risk is the risk that death claims may differ from the amount we assumed in pricing our reinsurance contracts and our variable life insurance policies. Mortality experience that is less favorable than the mortality rates that we assumed will negatively affect our net income. Several class action securities lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors, and we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named defendants in federal securities class action lawsuits, which lawsuits subsequently were consolidated. The plaintiffs in this lawsuit may make additional claims, expand existing claims and/or expand the time periods covered by the consolidated complaint, and other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims. We expect to incur significant defense costs regardless of the outcome of this lawsuit. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, part or all of which may not be covered by insurance. This lawsuit and any similar lawsuit in the future may result in a diversion of our management’s time and attention and the incurrence of increased litigation costs. The adjustment of the conversion ratio of the Convertible Cumulative Participating Preferred Shares as a result of a successful indemnification claim by the Investors could significantly dilute the interests of our existing ordinary shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, we had 68,383,370 ordinary shares outstanding and there were obligations to issue 8,686,844 ordinary shares upon the exercise of outstanding options, 2,650,000 ordinary shares upon the exercise of warrants and 150,000,000 ordinary shares for the conversion of the Convertible Cumulative Participating Perpetual Preferred shares. Pursuant to the SPA, we made certain representations and warranties, the breach of which could result in the Investors asserting a claim against us for indemnification of losses (including diminution in value), if any, they may have incurred as a result of the breach. The SPA provides that any indemnification claim would be satisfied by adjusting the conversion amount at which the Convertible Cumulative Participating Preferred Shares issued to the Investors are convertible into our ordinary shares, further diluting our existing shareholders. As noted in our Form 8-K filing of November 19, 2007, the Investors have provided us notice of their intent to seek indemnification based on an overstatement of statutory surplus in SRD of approximately $70.6 million and an understatement of statutory surplus in SRUS of approximately $14.5 million. Although we have received an initial notice from the Investors of a potential indemnification claim, we have received no further notice regarding the Investors intent to pursue the claim. To the extent the Investors do pursue this claim, we cannot determine the amount of indemnifiable losses, if any, or the potential defenses or other limitations on indemnification that might be available to us, or the amount of dilution our existing shareholders will experience. The Investors are our majority shareholders and their interests may differ from our interests and those of our other security holders. As of June 30, 2008, the Investors hold securities representing approximately 68.7% of the voting power of all of our shareholders, and the right to designate two-thirds of the members of our Board. In addition, for so long as Cypress Merchant B Partners II (Cayman) L.P., Cypress Merchant B II-A C.V., Cypress Side-By-Side (Cayman) 25 Table of Contents L.P. and 55th Street Partners II (Cayman) L.P. (collectively, the “Cypress Entities”) in the aggregate beneficially own at least 2.5% of our outstanding voting shares on a fully diluted basis, the Cypress Entities will be entitled to designate at least one individual for election to the Board. As a result of the Investors’ ownership position, they will have the ability to significantly influence matters requiring shareholder approval, including without limitation, the election and removal of directors, and mergers, acquisitions, changes of control of our company and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of a holder of our securities may conflict with the interests of the Investors, and the price of our ordinary shares or other securities could be adversely affected by this influence. Natural disasters, catastrophes and disasters caused by humans, including the threat of terrorist attacks and related events, epidemics, and pandemics may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as epidemics and pandemics, can adversely affect our business and results of operations because they accelerate mortality risk. Terrorist attacks in the United States and in other parts of the world and the threat of future attacks could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our reinsurance programs are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses for individual life claims relating to potential future natural disasters and terrorist attacks. However, the consequences of any such natural disasters, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, epidemics and pandemics are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated and changes in these regulations could harm our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include trade and claim practices, accounting methods, premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, acceptability of collateral for purposes of taking credit for reinsurance, policy forms, affiliate transactions, changes of control and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things: • establish solvency requirements, including minimum reserves and capital and surplus requirements; • limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, inter-company loans and other payments our insurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval; • impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold; and • require assessments to pay claims of insolvent insurance companies. Insurance regulators in the jurisdictions where SRUS and SRLC are licensed or accredited have the authority to limit or restrict the licenses or accredited status of the companies in such jurisdictions. SRUS and SRLC are currently responding to inquiries from the Delaware Department of Insurance and the New York State Insurance Department concerning the financial condition of SRUS and the Company. We cannot predict the outcome of these or other discussions with regulators. The loss of our licensing or accredited reinsurer status in Delaware, New York or in another key jurisdiction would materially adversely affect our business. The NAIC continuously examines existing laws and regulations. We cannot predict the effect that any NAIC recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule making in the United States or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. If we were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction where we are not presently admitted, we may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could harm our financial results and operations. 26 Table of Contents Our ordinary shares are subject to voting and transfer limitations. Under our articles of association, our Board (or its designee) is required, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, to decline to register any transfer of ordinary shares if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares (other than the Investors or any person who, indirectly through or by attribution from the Investors is treated as controlling the Convertible Cumulative Participating Preferred Shares or any ordinary shares into which the Convertible Cumulative Participating Preferred Shares are convertible (each, an “Attributed Investor”)). With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares (other than the Investors or an Attributed Investor), the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. Similar restrictions apply to issuances and repurchases of ordinary shares by us. Our directors (or their designee) also may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any ordinary shares, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, if they have reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction or if they have reason to believe that registration of such transfer under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ( the “Securities Act”), under any state “blue sky” or other U.S. securities laws or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and such registration has not been duly effected. With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction, the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. A transferor of ordinary shares will be deemed to own such shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such ordinary shares has been registered on our register of members. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of ordinary shares as necessary to effect registration of any such transaction, and may decline to register any such transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our articles of association generally provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) other than the Investors or an Attributed Investor, holding directly, or by attribution, or otherwise beneficially owning our voting shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding voting shares, will have the voting rights attached to its voting shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than approximately 9.9% of such total voting rights. Because of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds of record 10% or more of our voting shares. Further, our Board (or its designee) has the authority to request from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether such shareholder’s voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives our Board (or its designee) discretion to disregard all votes attached to such shareholder’s ordinary shares. Our articles of association make it difficult to replace directors and to effect a change in control. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that make it more difficult for our shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions may make more difficult the acquisition of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, a proxy fight or otherwise, including by reason of the limitation on transfers of ordinary shares and voting rights described above. 27 Table of Contents While these provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control to negotiate with our Board, they could have the effect of discouraging a prospective purchaser from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control and may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Examples of provisions in our articles of association that could have such an effect include: • election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; • the total voting power of any shareholder owning 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to our ordinary shares will be reduced to approximately 9.9% of the total voting rights of our ordinary shares; • our directors must decline to register the transfer of ordinary shares on our share register that would result in a person owning 10% or more of any class of our shares and may decline certain transfers that they believe may have adverse tax or regulatory consequences; • shareholders do not have the right to act by written consent; and • our directors have the ability to change the size of the Board. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. The Investors hold in the aggregate approximately 68.7% of our equity voting power, along with the right to designate two-thirds of the members of the Board. In addition, for so long as the Cypress Entities beneficially own at least 2.5% of the outstanding ordinary shares, the Cypress Entities will be entitled to nominate one individual for election to the Board. The Investors’ share ownership and ability to nominate a majority of persons for election to the Board would provide the Investors with significant control over change in control transactions. Applicable insurance laws make it difficult to effect a change in control. Under applicable Delaware insurance laws and regulations, no person may acquire control of us, SRUS or SRLC, our Delaware insurance subsidiaries, unless that person has filed a statement containing specified information with the Delaware Insurance Commissioner and approval for such acquisition is obtained. Under applicable laws and regulations, any person acquiring, directly by stock ownership or indirectly (by revocable proxy or otherwise), 10% or more of the voting stock of any other person is presumed to have acquired control of such person, and a person who beneficially acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares without obtaining the approval of the Delaware Insurance Commissioner would be in violation of Delaware’s insurance holding company act and would be subject to injunctive action requiring disposition or seizure of the shares and prohibiting the voting of such shares, as well as other action determined by the Delaware Insurance Commissioner. In addition, because of our ownership of Orkney I, our Delaware special purpose reinsurance captive, any person acquiring control of Orkney I, directly or indirectly through acquiring control of us, would be required to obtain approvals from the Delaware Insurance Commission. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to the state insurance department of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company licensed to transact insurance in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of us, SRUS or SRLC may require prior notification in the states that have pre-acquisition notification laws. These prior notice and prior approval laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. 28 Table of Contents Any change in control of Scottish Re Limited would need the approval of the U.K. FSA, which is the body responsible for the regulation and supervision of the U.K. insurance and reinsurance industry. The proposed acquisition of Scottish Re Holdings Limited by Pacific Life Insurance Company will require FSA approval in accordance with their procedures. It may be difficult to sue or enforce judgments against us in the United States. We are a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands with its principal executive office in Bermuda. Certain of our directors and officers are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and those of such directors and officers, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have irrevocably agreed that we may be served with process in New York, New York with respect to actions arising out of or in connection with violations of United States Federal securities laws relating to offers and sales of ordinary shares made hereby, it could be difficult to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to recover against us or such directors and officers on judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies who may not pay amounts due to us, which could materially harm our business. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies, known as retrocessionaires. We assumed the risk that the retrocessionaire will be unable to pay amounts due to us because of its own financial difficulties. The failure of our retrocessionaires to pay amounts due to us will not absolve us of our responsibility to pay ceding companies for risks that we reinsure. Failure of retrocessionaires to pay us could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The declines in our ratings have increased our cost of capital and forced us to cease pursuing new business. Ratings are an important factor in attracting new life reinsurance business. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. Although most of the factors considered relate to the rated company, some of the factors take into account general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company’s control. The objective of rating organizations is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the relevant rating agency and may be revised downward or withdrawn at the sole discretion of the rating agency. In addition, these ratings are not an evaluation directed to investors in our securities and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. See “Item 1 — Competition and Ratings” starting on page 12 for a description of our subsidiaries’ ratings. In addition to certain in-force treaties with an option to recapture upon a ratings downgrade to a certain specified level, our current ratings have and will continue to adversely affect our business. Approximately 6% of the traditional life reinsurance in-force business of $970.3 billion is subject to ratings triggers. These triggers give the ceding companies the option of recapturing the business in those treaties. In addition, as a result of downgrades, the financing or related costs on our collateral finance facilities have increased. Due to the downgrades of SRUS and SALIC by AM Best, Fitch Ratings, Moody’s and S&P, all ratings-driven fees are at their maximum. The downgrade by Fitch on January 18, 2008 of Ambac Financial Group, Inc. and related entities, which has guaranteed certain debt securities issued by Ballantyne Re, has led to an increase in the interest rate on $400.0 million of securities issued by Ballantyne Re. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile, and there is limited liquidity for our ordinary shares. The market price for our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly, ranging between an intraday high of $5.41 per share in January 3, 2007 and an intraday low of $0.08 per share on June 30, 2008. On March 11, 2008, we received written notice from NYSE Regulation Inc. that trading in our ordinary shares would be suspended prior to the opening of business on Friday, March 14, 2008 and that our ordinary shares would be delisted. The NYSE also suspended our perpetual preferred shares in connection with its suspension of our ordinary shares. Our ordinary 29 Table of Contents shares began trading on Pink Sheets on March 14, 2008. In addition, because our ordinary shares are no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is limited liquidity for the shares and consequently, the overall market for and the price of our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. The lack of a listing may affect the ability of our shareholders to sell our ordinary shares in an orderly manner or at all. There may be a significant effect on the market price for our ordinary shares due to, among other things: • changes in investors’ and analysts’ perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business including our liquidity needs, • the size of the public float of our ordinary shares, • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors, • regulatory developments, • market conditions, and • general economic conditions. In addition, trading in our ordinary shares though market makers and quotation on Pink Sheets entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our ordinary shares and the elimination of analyst coverage, the trading price of our ordinary shares may change quickly, and market makers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when our ordinary shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange. In addition, because our reporting obligations under U.S. federal securities laws has been suspended, we will no longer be filing periodic reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The lack of such public reports may adversely impact the price of our shares and the liquidity in the trading market for our shares. We are exposed to foreign currency risk which could negatively affect our business. Our functional currencies are the United States dollar and the British pound. The business recorded in British pounds is then translated to United States dollars for the purposes of reporting the results. All of our original U.S. business is settled in United States dollars, all Canadian, Latin American and certain Asia and Middle East business is converted and settled in United States dollars, and most other business is settled in either Euros or British pounds. We attempt to limit substantial exposures to foreign currency risk, but do not actively manage currency risks. To the extent our foreign currency exposure is not properly managed or otherwise hedged, we may experience foreign exchange losses, which in turn would lower our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Risks Related to Taxation If we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are determined to be conducting business in the United States, we could be liable for U.S. federal income taxes which could negatively affect our net income. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands with our principal executive office in Bermuda. If we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries were characterized as engaged in a trade or business in the United States such company would be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profit taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business. We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to conduct our operations outside of the United States and limit our U.S. contacts, in order to mitigate the risk that these companies may be characterized as engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, because there are not definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions, there is considerable uncertainty as to which activities constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States, and as the determination as to whether a non-U.S. corporation is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States is essentially factual in nature, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could contend that we and/or one or more of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, is engaged in a trade or business in the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The highest marginal federal income tax rates currently are 35% for a corporation’s income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business and 30% for the “branch profits” tax. 30 Table of Contents The potential application of the Federal Insurance Excise Tax to transactions between non-U.S. entities could cause us to incur additional tax liabilities. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2008-15, has formally announced its position that the U.S. federal insurance excise tax (“FET”) is applicable (at a 1% rate on premiums) to all reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of risks by non-U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers where the underlying risks are either (i) risks of a U.S. entity or individual located wholly or partly within the United States or (ii) risks of a non-U.S. entity or individual engaged in a trade or business in the United States which are located within the United States (“U.S. Situs Risks”), even if the FET has been paid on prior cessions of the same risks. The legal and jurisdictional basis for, and the method of enforcement of, the IRS’ position is unclear. We have not determined if the FET should be applicable with respect to risks ceded to a non-U.S. insurance subsidiary by a non-U.S. insurance company, or by a non-U.S. insurance subsidiary to a non-U.S. insurance company. If the FET is applicable, it should apply at a 1% rate on premium for all U.S. Situs Risks ceded to a non-U.S. insurance subsidiary by a non-U.S. insurance company, or by a non-U.S. insurance subsidiary to a non-U.S. insurance company, even though the FET also applies at a 1% rate on premium ceded to a non-U.S. insurance subsidiary or non-U.S. insurance company, respectively, with respect to such risks. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. If you are a U.S. 10% holder of a non-U.S. corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as a CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. For purposes of this discussion, the term “U.S. 10% holder” includes only U.S. Persons (as defined below) who, directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities (or through the application of the constructive ownership rules, of Section 958(b) of the Code (i.e., “constructively”), own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is treated as a CFC if U.S. 10% holders collectively own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of that corporation or the total value of all stock of that corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company if U.S. 10% holders collectively own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 25% of the total combined voting power. At the present time, MassMutual Capital (a U.S. person) owns (indirectly through U.S. and Cayman partnerships) approximately 34% of the voting power of our shares, Cerberus (a Cayman domiciled entity) owns approximately 34% of the voting power of our shares, the Cypress Entities (Cayman domiciled entities) own collectively approximately 4.3% of the voting power of our shares (all attributable to one U.S. Person) and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“Lehman”) (a U.S. Person) owns approximately 3.2% of the voting power of our shares. In order to lessen the risk that our direct or indirect shareholders could be required to include our subpart F income in their U.S federal gross income, our articles of association currently prohibit the ownership by any person of shares that would equal or exceed 10% (the “10% Limit”) of any class of the issued and outstanding Scottish Re shares and provide a “voting cutback” that would, in certain circumstances, reduce the voting power with respect to Scottish Re shares to the extent necessary to prevent any person (other than MassMutual Capital and Cerberus) owning more than 9.9% of the voting power of Scottish Re (the “Second 10% Limit). We believe, although not free from doubt, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, that currently because of the dispersion of our share ownership (other than as noted above) and the provisions of our articles of association restricting the transfer, issuance and voting power of our shares that no U.S. Person (other than certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus and MassMutual Capital and certain potential U.S. affiliates) should be characterized as a U.S. 10% holder of Scottish Re; however, we cannot be certain of this result because of factual and legal uncertainties. In addition, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of the provisions in our organizational documents and a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person will not be characterized as a U.S. 10% holder. Because we believe that MassMutual Capital (a U.S. Person) owns (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 25% (but less than 50%) of our voting power each of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries should be characterized as a CFC. In addition, Scottish Re and its non-insurance, non-U.S. subsidiaries would be characterized as CFCs if U.S. 10% holders own more than 50% of the voting power or value of our shares. 31 Table of Contents In either case, any U.S. 10% holder would be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the subpart F income of each of those entities characterized as a CFC. For the purposes of this discussion and below, a “U.S. Person” means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or organized under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. If a partnership owns any of our shares, the application of the RPII rules to any of its partners will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner of a partnership that owns our shares, you should consult your tax advisor. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries related person insurance income. If U.S. Persons (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) own collectively (by voting power or value) 25% or more of our shares (as is currently the case), then any U.S. Person who (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) owns any of our shares on the last day of any taxable year would be required to include its pro-rata share of the related person insurance income (“RPII”) of one or more of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles (i.e., Orkney Re II or Ballantyne Re) in its ordinary gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, determined as described below unless one of the RPII exceptions described in the next paragraph is applicable. The RPII income inclusion rules will not apply, however, for any taxable year, if either (i) direct or indirect insureds, and persons related to such insureds, do not own (directly or indirectly through U.S. or non-U.S. entities), 20% or more of the voting power or value of the stock of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary or special purpose vehicle (the “20% RPII Ownership Exception”) or (ii) the RPII of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary or special purpose vehicle, determined on a gross basis, does not equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in each case, for the relevant taxable year (the “20% RPII Gross Income Exception”). Qualification for these exceptions is determined on an entity-by-entity basis. In addition, the RPII rules do not apply to any RPII earned by Scottish Annuity and Life International Insurance Company (Bermuda) Ltd. and SRLB, which have each elected to be taxed as U.S. corporations. Because risks underwritten by affiliates of MassMutual Capital are indirectly reinsured by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles, our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries do not meet and are not expected to meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception and it is likely that one or more of our special purpose vehicles do not meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception. If, in a year in which it failed to meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception and are not expected to meet, any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles also failed to meet the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception, then U.S. Persons owning (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) our shares would be subject to the RPII income inclusion rules, and could be required to include RPII in their U.S. federal gross income as described below. RPII is, generally, underwriting premium (and related investment income) of a non-U.S. insurance company that is attributable to the insurance or reinsurance of policies under which the direct or indirect insureds are (i) U.S. Persons that (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) own any shares of such non-U.S. insurance company or (ii) persons that are in control of, controlled by or under common control with U.S. Persons that (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) own the non-U.S. insurance company (such as MassMutual Capital’s affiliates). Although no assurances can be given, we believe that our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles may currently qualify for the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception. Additionally, we believe that our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and our special purpose vehicles may currently qualify for that exception in the future provided we effectively manage the gross amount of RPII generated with respect to our shareholders. 32 Table of Contents MassMutual Capital and Cerberus have indicated to us that they do not intend to cause the gross RPII of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles to equal or exceed 20% of each such company’s gross insurance income in any tax year. There can be no assurance, however, that this exception will be met. Avoidance of the RPII income inclusion rules depends upon numerous factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles that are not solely within our control. If, for any taxable year, one or more of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles (i) meet the 25% ownership threshold described above (as is currently the case) and fail to meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception (as is currently the case) and (ii) do not qualify for the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception described above, each U.S. Person who (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) owned our shares on the last day of such taxable year would be required to include RPII in their U.S. federal gross income (regardless of whether such income is distributed), which may materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. The amount of RPII includable in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes by each such U.S. Person would equal the U.S. Person’s pro-rata share of the relevant entity’s RPII, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons that are holders of shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on that date (taking into account any differences existing with respect to the distribution rights applicable to different classes of shares). The amount includible in gross income would be limited by each such U.S. Person’s share of the non-U.S. insurance subsidiary’s or special purpose vehicle’s earnings and profits for the tax year, as reduced by the U.S. Person’s share, if any, of certain prior-year deficits in earnings and profits. Such amount would be taxable at ordinary income rates. Moreover, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. If a U.S. Person were to own more than 50% of our shares (either directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities), our insurance subsidiaries would be treated as controlled by the U.S. Person for purposes of the RPII rules, and the reinsurance of their business by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles would generate RPII. In that event, the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception would not be met by any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles (as their business is currently conducted). Our Articles of Association do not and will not prohibit any MassMutual Capital, Cerberus and certain of their affiliates from acquiring more than 50% of our shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities). MassMutual Capital and Cerberus have indicated to us that they have no present intention of taking any action that would reasonably be expected to result in the ownership of more than 50% of our shares by a U.S. Person (either directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities). There can be no assurance, however, that this will not occur and that U.S. Persons owning our shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) will not have RPII income inclusions. The RPII provisions have never been interpreted by the courts or the Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of RPII by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The RPII provisions include the grant of authority to the Treasury Department to prescribe “such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this subsection including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise”. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to us is uncertain. In addition, we cannot be certain that the amount of RPII or the amounts of the RPII inclusions for any particular RPII shareholder, if any, will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Shareholders are advised to consult with their tax advisors regarding the application of these provisions. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains, if any. Under section 1248 of the Code, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares in a non-U.S. corporation by a U.S. Person, which was a U.S. 10% holder at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, may be treated as a dividend to the extent of the CFC’s earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares (with certain adjustments). We believe, although not free from doubt, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, that because of the dispersion of our share ownership (other than as noted above and the provisions of our articles of association restricting transfer, issuance and voting power of our shares) 33 Table of Contents that currently no U.S. Person (other than MassMutual Capital and certain of its U.S. affiliates and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus) should be characterized as a U.S. 10% holder of Scottish Re, although we cannot be certain of this result because of factual and legal uncertainties. It is possible, however, that during the relevant period, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions in our organizational documents and that a court could sustain such a challenge. To the extent it is the case that we have no U.S. 10% holders during the relevant period (other than MassMutual Capital and certain of its U.S. affiliates and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus), the application of Code section 1248 under the regular CFC rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares (other than to MassMutual Capital and certain of its U.S. affiliates and possibly to certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus). Code section 1248 in conjunction with the RPII rules also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a non-U.S. corporation if the non-U.S. corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes regardless of whether the shareholder is a U.S. 10% holder or whether the 20% RPII gross income exception or the 20% RPII ownership exceptions are met. Existing proposed regulations do not address whether Code section 1248 would apply if a non-U.S. corporation is not a CFC but the non-U.S. corporation has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. We believe, however, that this application of Code section 1248 in conjunction with the RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because we will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot be certain; however, that the IRS will not interpret the proposed regulations in a contrary manner or that the U.S. Treasury Department will not amend the proposed regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S tax-exempt organization if either we are a controlled foreign corporation or the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% holder or there is RPII and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons should be allocated our insurance income, potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company. If we are considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investment in our shares could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning ordinary shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the ordinary shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its gross income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce (or are held for the production of) passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. Passive income does not, however, include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. The PFIC provisions also contain a look-through rule under which a foreign corporation shall be treated as if it “received directly its proportionate share of the income” and as if it “held its proportionate share of the assets” of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% of the value of the stock. We believe for purposes of the PFIC rules that our U.S., Bermuda, Irish, U.K. and Guernsey insurance subsidiaries are likely to be characterized as predominantly engaged in an active insurance business and are not likely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business in each year of operations. Accordingly, the income and assets of these companies are expected to have been treated as active. 34 Table of Contents Further, although we anticipate, in each case, prior to 2008, the active income and assets of these companies may potentially be likely to comprise more than 25% of our gross income and more than 50% of our assets for 2008, we note that we are currently not underwriting significant new business in the beginning of 2008 and it is unclear how to apply the actual income and asset test in this context. However, we believe that we should not have been characterized as a PFIC prior to 2008 and anticipate we may be able to avoid PFIC characterization in 2008 for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Moreover, any potential sale associated with our Life Reinsurance North America Segment may place considerable pressure on avoiding this characterization going forward. Finally, we cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS for any years at issue. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that additional legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could also have an adverse impact on us, or our shareholders. For example, legislation has been introduced in Congress that would, if enacted, deny the applicability of reduced rates of tax to “qualified dividend income” paid by any corporation organized under the laws of a non-U.S. country which does not have a comprehensive income tax system, such as the Cayman Islands. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the RPII of a controlled foreign corporation are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. If we do not receive further undertakings from the Cayman Islands, we may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands in the future. We and our Cayman Islands subsidiaries, SALIC and The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., have received undertakings from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended (1999 Revision), that until the year 2028 with respect to Scottish Re and SALIC, and until the year 2024 with respect to The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., (1) no subsequently enacted Cayman Islands law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries and (2) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any shares, debentures or other obligations of Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries. We could be subject to Cayman Islands taxes after the applicable dates. If Bermuda law changes, we may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future. Bermuda currently imposes no income tax on corporations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has assured us that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries until March 28, 2016. Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries could be subject to Bermuda taxes after that date. 35 Table of Contents The impact of letters of commitment from Bermuda and the Cayman Islands to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices may impact us negatively. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002, and updated as of June 2004 and September 2006 and October 2007, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands were not listed as uncooperative tax haven jurisdictions because each had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 