Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors relate specifically to the risks associated with our continuing operations. Risks Associated with Our Operations The duration or severity of the current global economic downturn and disruptions in the financial markets, and their impact on us, are uncertain. The recent global economic downturn, coupled with the global financial and credit market disruptions, have had a negative impact on us and on the coal industry generally. While we believe that the long-term prospects for coal remain bright, we are unable to predict the duration or severity of the current global economic and financial crisis. We are focused on strong cost control and productivity improvements, increased contributions from our high-margin operations, and exercising tight capital discipline. However, there can be no assurance that these actions, or any others that we may take in response to further deterioration in economic and financial conditions, will be sufficient. A protracted continuation or worsening of the global economic downturn or disruptions in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 Table of Contents A decline in coal prices could negatively affect our profitability. Our profitability depends upon the prices we receive for our coal. Coal prices are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of and demand for U.S. domestic and international thermal (steam) and metallurgical coal; • the demand for electricity and steel and the strength of the global economy; • the availability and price of alternative fuels, such as natural gas, and alternative energy sources, such as Hydroelectric power; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, including those establishing air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants; • regulatory, administrative and judicial decisions, including those affecting future mining permits; • the proximity, capacity and cost of transportation; • technological developments, including those intended to convert coal to liquids or gas and those aimed at capturing and sequestering carbon; and • the effects of worldwide energy conservation measures. As of January 27, 2009, our 2009 production is largely sold out in the U.S. with 4 to 5 million tons of Australian metallurgical coal and 5 to 6 million tons of Australian thermal coal available to price. The current global financial slowdown has reduced gross domestic product expectations for U.S., China and other major world economies, which is expected to temper the growth of coal demand in the near term. As a result, we expect 2009 coal prices to be lower than 2008 levels for our unpriced 2009 Australian-based metallurgical and thermal coal. If we continue to experience a weak coal pricing environment or if we see a further deterioration in coal prices, we could experience an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. A decrease in our production of metallurgical coal could reduce our anticipated profitability. In 2008, we produced 7.8 million tons of metallurgical coal for export from our Australian Mining operations and realized prices for metallurgical coal at historically high levels, which significantly increased our profitability. Although we have annual capacity to produce approximately 8 to 10 million tons of metallurgical coal from these operations, we project that our 2009 metallurgical coal production will be reduced by up to two million tons due to the decline in worldwide steel demand. To the extent that demand for metallurgical coal further deteriorates, our profitability could be adversely affected. If a substantial number of our long-term coal supply agreements terminate, our revenues and operating profits could suffer if we are unable to find alternate buyers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in our contracts. Most of our sales are made under coal supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. The execution of a satisfactory coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract, particularly in the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 90% of our worldwide sales volume was sold under long-term coal supply agreements. At December 31, 2008, our sales backlog, including backlog subject to price reopener and/or extension provisions, was over one billion tons, representing nearly five years of current production in backlog. Contracts in backlog have remaining terms ranging from one to 17 years. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. We may adjust these contract prices based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. We sometimes experience a reduction in coal prices in new long-term coal supply agreements replacing some of our expiring 25 Table of Contents contracts. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Moreover, some of these agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if transportation costs, which our customers typically bear, increase substantially. In addition, some of these contracts allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. Market prices for coal vary by mining region and country. As a result, we cannot predict the future strength of the coal market overall or by mining region and cannot assure you that we will be able to replace existing long-term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived 24% of our total coal revenues from sales to our five largest customers. At December 31, 2008, we had 66 coal supply agreements and trading transactions with these customers expiring at various times from 2009 to 2014. We are currently discussing the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with some of these customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. In addition, our revenue could be adversely affected by a decline in customer purchases due to lack of demand, cost of competing fuels and environmental regulations. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base has changed with deregulation as utilities have sold their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties. These new power plant owners or other customers may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers occurs, our $275.0 million accounts receivable securitization program and our business could be adversely affected. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales. As of December 31, 2008, certain coal supply agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if the cost of transportation increases by an amount over specified levels in any given 12-month period. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and ocean-going vessels to deliver coal to markets. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our 26 Table of Contents results of operations. For example, two primary railroads serve the Powder River Basin mines. Due to the high volume of coal shipped from all Powder River Basin mines, the loss of access to rail capacity could create temporary congestion on the rail systems servicing that region. In Australia we currently ship coal through the ports of Dalrymple Bay, Brisbane, Newcastle and Port Kembla. In most instances, we rail coal to these ports. The Australian coal supply chains (rail and port) can be impacted by a number of factors including weather events, breakdown or underperformance of the port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems which are imposed to manage vessel queuing and demurrage. As a result, we are susceptible to increased costs or lost sales due to Australian coal chain problems. A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires could decrease our anticipated profitability. Our mining operations require a reliable supply of mining equipment, replacement parts, explosives, fuel, tires, steel-related products (including roof control) and lubricants. Recent consolidation of suppliers of explosives has limited the number of sources for these materials, and our current supply of explosives is concentrated with two suppliers. Further, our purchases of some items of underground mining equipment are concentrated with one principal supplier. If the cost of any of these inputs increased significantly, or if a source for these supplies or mining equipment were unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced. An inability of trading, brokerage or freight sources to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. In conducting our trading, brokerage and mining operations, we utilize third-party sources of coal production, including contract miners and brokerage sources, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. In Australia, the majority of our volume comes from mines that utilize contract miners. Employee relations at mines that use contract miners is the responsibility of the contractor. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships is dependent upon the reliability (including financial viability) and price of the third-party suppliers, our obligation to supply coal to customers in the event that adverse geologic mining conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers, our willingness to participate in temporary cost increases experienced by our third-party coal suppliers, our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to our customers, the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market, the ability of our freight sources to fulfill their delivery obligations and other factors. The recent market volatility and price increases for coal on the international and domestic markets could result in non-performance by third-party suppliers under existing contracts with us, in order to take advantage of the higher prices in the current market. Such non-performance could have an adverse impact on our ability to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. If the coal industry experiences overcapacity in the future, our profitability could be impaired. Coal prices in most regions of the U.S. and globally were approaching record highs in the first half of 2008, which encouraged producers to increase planned capacity. Many of these planned capacity increases and existing production plans have been delayed or reduced due to the global economic downturn and coal price reductions in the second half of 2008. To the extent that demand drops below supply, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions that can impact the safety of our workforce, or delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust; accidental minewater discharges; weather, flooding and natural disasters; unexpected maintenance problems; key equipment failures; variations in coal seam thickness; variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit; variations in rock and other natural materials; and variations in geologic conditions. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited 27 Table of Contents coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. Despite our efforts, significant mine accidents could occur and have a substantial impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of a number of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot assure that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 7,200 employees. In the U.S., approximately 15% of our U.S. subsidiaries’ hourly employees are represented by unions and they generated approximately 6% of our U.S. production during the year ended December 31, 2008. In Australia, the majority of workers are members of trade unions, including those employed through contract mining relationships. Relations with our employees and, where applicable, organized labor are important to our success. Due to the higher labor costs and the increased risk of strikes and other work-related stoppages that may be associated with union operations in the coal industry, our competitors who operate without union labor may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with our unionized operations. If some or all of our current non-union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. Our operations could be adversely affected if we fail to appropriately secure our obligations. U.S. federal and state laws and Australian laws require us to secure certain of our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. The primary methods for us to meet those obligations are to post a corporate guarantee (i.e. self bond), provide a third-party surety bond or provide a letter of credit. As of December 31, 2008, we had $773.4 million of self bonding in place for our reclamation obligations. As of December 31, 2008, we also had outstanding surety bonds with third parties and letters of credit of $1,128.6 million, of which $740.7 million was for post-mining reclamation, $74.2 million related to workers’ compensation obligations, $99.2 million was for coal lease obligations and $214.5 million was for other obligations, including collateral for surety companies and bank guarantees, road maintenance and performance guarantees. As of December 31, 2008, the amount of letters of credit securing Patriot obligations was $7.0 million related to Patriot’s workers’ compensation obligations. Surety bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. Letters of credit are subject to our successful renewal of our bank Revolving Credit Facility, which expires in 2011. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or letters of credit or to provide a suitable alternative would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds; • restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our indentures or Senior Unsecured Credit Facility; • the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety; and • inability to renew our credit facility. 28 Table of Contents Our ability to self bond reduces our costs of providing financial assurances. To the extent we are unable to maintain our current level of self bonding, due to legislative or regulatory changes or changes in our financial condition, our costs would increase. Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state or local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders related to the environment or employee health and safety may be adopted and may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Some of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A number of laws, including in the U.S. the CERCLA, impose liability relating to contamination by hazardous substances. Such liability may involve the costs of investigating or remediating contamination and damages to natural resources, as well as claims seeking to recover for property damage or personal injury caused by hazardous substances. Such liability may arise from conditions at formerly, as well as currently, owned or operated properties, and at properties to which hazardous substances have been sent for treatment, disposal, or other handling. Liability under CERCLA and similar state statutes is without regard to fault, and typically is joint and several, meaning that a person may be held responsible for more than its share, or even all of, the liability involved. Our mining operations involve some use of hazardous materials. In addition, we have accrued for liability arising out of contamination associated with Gold Fields Mining, LLC (Gold Fields), a dormant, non-coal-producing subsidiary of ours that was previously managed and owned by Hanson PLC, or with Gold Fields’ former affiliates. A predecessor owner of ours, Hanson PLC, transferred ownership of Gold Fields to us in the February 1997 spin-off of its energy business. Gold Fields is currently a defendant in several lawsuits and has received notices of several other potential claims arising out of lead contamination from mining and milling operations it conducted in northeastern Oklahoma. Gold Fields is also involved in investigating or remediating a number of other contaminated sites. Although we have accrued for many of these liabilities known to us, the amounts of other potential losses cannot be estimated. Significant uncertainty exists as to whether claims will be pursued against Gold Fields in all cases, and where they are pursued, the amount of the eventual costs and liabilities, which could be greater or less than our accrual. Although we believe many of these liabilities are likely to be resolved without a material adverse effect on us, future developments, such as new information concerning areas known to be or suspected of being contaminated for which we may be responsible, the discovery of new contamination for which we may be responsible, or the inability to share costs with other parties that may be responsible for the contamination, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our future success depends upon our ability to continue acquiring and developing coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our reserves. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our future success depends upon our conducting successful exploration and development activities or acquiring properties containing economically recoverable reserves. Our current strategy includes increasing our reserves through acquisitions of government and other leases and producing properties and continuing to use our existing properties. The federal government also leases natural gas and coalbed methane reserves in the West, including in the Powder River Basin. Some of these natural gas and coalbed methane reserves are located on, or adjacent to, some of our Powder River Basin reserves, potentially creating conflicting interests between us and lessees of those interests. Other lessees’ rights relating to these mineral interests could prevent, delay or increase the cost of developing our coal reserves. These lessees may also seek damages from us based on claims that our coal mining operations impair their interests. Additionally, the federal government limits the amount of federal land that may be leased by any company to 150,000 acres nationwide. As of December 31, 2008, we leased a total of 64,154 acres from the federal government. The limit could restrict our ability to lease additional federal lands. Our planned mine development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may not have continuing success developing additional mines. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. Because we do not thoroughly verify title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights until we obtain a permit to mine the property, our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We cannot predict whether we will continue to receive the permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from the government or from private parties, obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves or maintain our leasehold interest in properties on which mining operations are not commenced during the term of the lease. From time to time, we have experienced litigation with lessors of our coal properties and with royalty holders. Growth in our global operations increases our risks unique to international mining and trading operations. We currently have international mining operations in Australia and Venezuela. We have a business development, sales and marketing office in Beijing, China and an international trading group in our Trading and Brokerage operations. In addition, we are actively pursuing long-term operating, trading and joint-venture opportunities in China, Mongolia and Mozambique. The international expansion of our operations increases our exposure to country and currency risks. Some of our international activities include expansion into developing countries where business practices and counterparty reputations may not be as well developed as in our U.S. or Australian operations. We are also challenged by political risks, including expropriation and the inability to repatriate earnings on our investment. In particular, the Venezuelan government has suggested its desire to increase government ownership in Venezuelan energy assets and natural resources. Actions to nationalize Venezuelan coal properties could be detrimental to our investment in the Paso Diablo Mine. During 2008, the Paso Diablo Mine contributed $5.7 million to segment Adjusted EBITDA in “Corporate and Other Adjusted EBITDA” (see Item 7) and paid a dividend of $19.9 million. At December 31, 2008, our investment in Paso Diablo was $54.2 million, recorded in “Investments and other assets” on the consolidated balance sheet. Risks Associated with Our Indebtedness We could be adversely affected by the failure of financial institutions to fulfill their commitments under our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility, net of outstanding letters of credit. This committed facility, which matures on 30 Table of Contents September 15, 2011, is provided by a syndicate of financial institutions, with each institution agreeing severally (and not jointly) to make revolving credit loans to us in accordance with the terms of the facility. If one or more of the financial institutions providing the Senior Unsecured Credit Facility were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the facility provided by such defaulting financial institution would not be available to us. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by our debt. Our financial performance could be affected by our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $3.2 billion, and we had $1.5 billion of available borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility. The indentures governing our Convertible Junior Subordinated Debentures (the Debentures) and 7.375% and 7.875% Senior Notes do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may issue, and the indentures governing our 6.875% and 5.875% Senior Notes permit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • making it more difficult for us to pay interest and satisfy our debt obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development or other general corporate uses; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development or other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. In addition, our debt agreements subject us to financial and other restrictive covenants. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The Senior Unsecured Credit Facility and indentures governing certain of our notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate those sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. The covenants in our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility and the indentures governing our Senior Notes and Debentures impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility, the indentures governing our 6.875% and 5.875% Senior Notes and Debentures and the instruments governing our other indebtedness contain certain restrictions and covenants which restrict our ability to incur liens and debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of any other person. Under our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility, we must comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis including a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio, as defined. The financial covenants also place limitations on our investments in joint ventures, unrestricted subsidiaries, indebtedness of non-loan parties and the imposition of liens on our assets. These covenants and restrictions are reasonable and customary and have not impacted our business in the past. 31 Table of Contents Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our inability to comply with the financial covenants contained in our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of our other debt or equity securities and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. The conversion of our Debentures may result in the dilution of the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. If the conditions permitting the conversion of our Debentures are met and holders of the Debentures exercise their conversion rights, any conversion value in excess of the principal amount will be delivered in shares of our common stock. If any common stock is issued in connection with a conversion of our Debentures, our existing stockholders will experience dilution in the voting power of their common stock and earnings per share could be negatively impacted. Provisions of our Debentures could discourage an acquisition of us by a third-party. Certain provisions of our Debentures could make it more difficult or more expensive for a third-party to acquire us. Upon the occurrence of certain transactions constituting a “change of control” as defined in the indenture relating to our Debentures, holders of our Debentures will have the right, at their option, to convert their Debentures and thereby require us to pay the principal amount of such Debentures in cash. Other Business Risks Under certain circumstances, we could be responsible for certain federal and state black lung occupational disease liabilities assumed by Patriot in connection with its spin-off from us. Patriot is responsible for certain federal and state black lung occupational disease liabilities up to $150 million, as well as related credit capacity in support of these liabilities. Should Patriot not fund these obligations as they become due, we could be responsible for such costs when incurred. Our expenditures for postretirement benefit and pension obligations could be materially higher than we have predicted if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect. We provide postretirement health and life insurance benefits to eligible union and non-union employees. We calculated the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under SFAS No. 106, which was a liability of $833.4 million as of December 31, 2008, $67.3 million of which was a current liability. Net pension liabilities were $216.0 million as of December 31, 2008, $1.6 million of which was a current liability. These liabilities are actuarially determined and we use various actuarial assumptions, including the discount rate and future cost trends, to estimate the costs and obligations for these items. Our discount rate is determined by utilizing a hypothetical bond portfolio model which approximates the future cash flows necessary to service our liabilities. We have made assumptions related to future trends for medical care costs in the estimates of retiree health care and work-related injuries and illnesses obligations. Our medical trend assumption is developed by annually examining the historical trend of our cost per claim data. In addition, we make assumptions related to future compensation increases and rates of return on plan assets in the estimates of pension obligations. 32 Table of Contents If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could differ materially from our current estimates. Moreover, regulatory changes or changes in medical benefits provided by the government could increase our obligation to satisfy these or additional obligations. The decline in the stock market and real estate values which occurred in 2008 led to a decline in the value of our pension plan assets as of December 31, 2008. We have experienced additional asset value declines in early 2009. The decline in asset values will, without a significant recovery of asset values in 2009, increase the required contributions to our pension plans in future periods. Concerns about the environmental impacts of coal combustion, including perceived impacts on global climate change, are resulting in increased regulation of coal combustion in many jurisdictions, and interest in further regulation, which could significantly affect demand for our products. Global climate change continues to attract public and scientific attention. Widely publicized scientific reports in 2007, such as the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, have also engendered concern about the impacts of human activity, especially fossil fuel combustion, on global climate change. In turn, increasing government attention is being paid to global climate change and to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including coal combustion by power plants. Enactment of laws and passage of regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions by the U.S. or some of its states, or other actions to limit carbon dioxide emissions, could result in electricity generators switching from coal to other fuel sources. The potential financial impact on us of future regulation will depend primarily upon the degree to which any such regulation forces electricity generators to diminish their reliance on coal as a fuel source. That, in turn, will depend on a number of factors, including the specific requirements imposed by any such regulation. Further developments in connection with legislation, regulations or other limits on greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts from coal combustion, both in the U.S. and in other countries where we sell coal, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As we continue to pursue Btu Conversion activities, we face challenges and risks that differ from those in our mining business. We continue to pursue opportunities to participate in technologies to economically convert a portion of our coal resources to natural gas and liquids such as diesel fuel, gasoline and jet fuel (Btu Conversion). As we move forward with these projects, we are exposed to risks related to the performance of our partners, securing required financing, obtaining necessary permits, meeting stringent regulatory laws, maintaining strong supplier relationships and managing (along with our partners) large projects, including managing through long lead times for ordering and obtaining capital equipment. Our work in new or recently commercialized technologies could expose us to unanticipated risks, evolving legislation and uncertainty regarding the extent of future government support and funding. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions that may discourage a takeover attempt. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our by-laws and certificate of incorporation impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, a change in control of our Company may be delayed or deterred as a result of the stockholders’ rights plan adopted by our Board of Directors. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. 33 Table of Contents Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact our reported financial results. The mining industry has limited industry-specific accounting literature and, as a result, we understand diversity in practice exists in the interpretation and application of accounting literature to mining specific issues. For example, some companies capitalize drilling and related costs incurred to delineate and classify mineral resources as proven and probable reserves, and other companies expense such costs. In addition, some industry participants expense pre-production stripping costs associated with developing new pits at existing surface mining operations, while other companies capitalize pre-production stripping costs for new pit development at existing operations. The materiality of such expenditures can vary greatly relative to a given company’s respective financial position and results of operations. As diversity in mining industry accounting is addressed, we may need to restate our reported results if the resulting interpretations differ from our current accounting practices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 