ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of their loans, and the collateral securing the payment of their loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant credit losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not cover inherent losses in our loan portfolio at the date of the financial statements. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. We realize income primarily from the difference between the interest we earn on loans and investments and the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. The interest rates on our assets and liabilities respond differently to changes in market interest rates, which means our interest-bearing liabilities may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates change, this "gap" between the amount of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities that reprice in response to these interest rate changes may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict fluctuations in market interest rates, which are affected by, among other factors, changes in the following: o inflation rates; o business activity levels; o money supply; and 31 o domestic and foreign financial markets. The value of our investment portfolio and the composition of our deposit base also are influenced by prevailing market conditions and interest rates. Our asset-liability management strategy, which is designed to mitigate the risk to us from changes in market interest rates, may not prevent changes in interest rates or securities market downturns, from reducing deposit outflow or from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations, our financial condition or the value of our investments. Our business is subject to the performance of the local economies in which we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing in our market area. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally are unfavorable, our business may be negatively affected. In addition, the economies of the communities in which we operate depend substantially on the growth of the Westchester County, New York and Fairfield County, Connecticut economy. To the extent that economic conditions in Westchester County, New York and Fairfield County, Connecticut are unfavorable or do not continue to grow as projected, the economies in our market areas would be adversely affected. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our market areas if they do occur. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in market and economic conditions. Any sustained period of increased non-payment, delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in our market areas could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse events in Westchester County, New York and Fairfield County, Connecticut, where our business is concentrated, could adversely affect our results and future growth. Our business, the location of our branches and the real estate collateralizing our commercial real estate loans are concentrated in Westchester County, New York and Fairfield County, Connecticut. As a result, we are exposed to geographic risks. The occurrence of an economic downturn in Westchester County, New York and Fairfield County, Connecticut could affect our credit quality, our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to successfully maintain and manage continued growth. We cannot be certain as to our ability to manage increased levels of assets and liabilities without increased expenses and higher levels of non-performing assets. We may be required to make additional investments in equipment and personnel to manage higher asset levels and loan balances, which may adversely affect our efficiency ratio, earnings and shareholder return. In particular, we rely on allocating and retaining experienced lenders to maintain our loan origination capability. Increases in operating expenses or non-performing assets may have an adverse effect on our earnings and on the value of our common stock. We operate in a very competitive banking market. The area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is a highly competitive banking market. We compete for loans, deposits and investment dollars with numerous regional and national banks and other community banking institutions, as well as other kinds of financial institutions and enterprises, such as securities firms, insurance companies, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and private lenders. Many competitors have substantially 32 greater resources than we do, and operate under less stringent regulatory environments. The differences in resources and regulations may make it harder for us to compete profitably, reduce the rates that we can earn on loans and investments, increase the rates we must offer on deposits and other funds, and adversely affect our overall financial condition and earnings. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by savings banks and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 33 