D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves significant risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as the other information contained in this annual report before making an investment decision. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In such case, you may lose all or part of your original investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Business We do not have sufficient funds to finance our operations and decided to cease our EER operations. We have incurred recurring losses and negative cash flows from operations throughout the years. We incurred net losses of approximately US$ 15,695 thousands in 2013, approximately US$4,501 thousand in 2012 and approximately US$6,246 thousand in 2011. Since we did not have sufficient funds to finance our operations and working plan, our board of directors has decided to cease the operation of the Y'bllin Facility owned by EER and to implement a significant cost reduction plan in the Company and in EER. Following the aforementioned decision, on October 31, 2013, our board of directors decided to act to dismantle the Y'bllin Facility and to sell the systems and equipment. Therefore, our board of directors and management has concluded that the Company is not a going concern. 4 You may have difficulty enforcing a judgment issued by a court in the United States against us in Israel We are organized under the laws of Israel and our headquarters are in Israel. All of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. Therefore, you may not be able to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of such persons. You may not be able to enforce civil actions under United States securities laws if you file a lawsuit in Israel. In addition, if a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it will be payable in Israeli currency. Currency fluctuations may affect the value of our assets and decrease our earnings The devaluation of the U.S. dollar against the NIS may decrease the value of our assets and could impact our business. We anticipate that a significant portion of our and EER's expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. If we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company, either presently or in the future, U.S. Holders will be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences We will be a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, if 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including our pro rata share of the gross income of any company, U.S. or foreign, in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, is passive income. Alternatively, we will be considered a PFIC if at least 50% of our assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and ordinarily determined based on fair market value, including our pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of the shares by value, are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we were to be a PFIC, and a U.S. Holder does not make an election to treat us as a “qualified electing fund,” or QEF, or a “mark to market” election, “excess distributions” to a U.S. Holder, and any gain recognized by a U.S. Holder on a disposition of our ordinary shares, would be taxed in an unfavorable way. Among other consequences, our dividends would be taxed at the regular rates applicable to ordinary income, rather than the 15% maximum rate applicable to certain dividends received by an individual from a qualified foreign corporation. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to the determination of PFIC status. In addition, under the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, it is unclear whether we would be permitted to use a gross loss from sales (sales less cost of goods sold) to offset our passive income in the calculation of gross income. In light of the uncertainties described above, we have not obtained an opinion of counsel with respect to our PFIC status and no assurance can be given that we will not be a PFIC in any year. If we determine that we have become a PFIC, we will then notify our U.S. Holders and provide them with the information necessary to comply with the QEF rules. If the IRS determines that we are a PFIC for a year with respect to which we have determined that we were not a PFIC, however, it might be too late for a U.S. Holder to make a timely QEF election, unless the U.S. Holder qualifies under the applicable Treasury regulations to make a retroactive (late) election. U.S. Holders who hold ordinary shares during a period when we are a PFIC will be subject to the foregoing rules, even if we cease to be a PFIC in subsequent years, subject to exceptions for U.S. Holders who made a timely QEF or mark-to-market election. Your rights and responsibilities as a shareholder will be governed by Israeli law and differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders under U.S. law We are incorporated under Israeli law. The rights and responsibilities of the holders of our Ordinary Shares are governed by our amended and restated articles of association (“Articles of Association”) and by Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in typical U.S. corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith toward the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing his power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters. See “Item 10.B. Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association” Risks Relating to EER We may not be able to succeed in our efforts to market and/or to sell the know-how and technology of EER Pursuant to the resolution of our board of directors to cease the operation of and dismantle the Y'bllin Facility, we intend to continue with our efforts to market and/or to sell the know-how and technology of EER. There are no assurances, however, that our efforts will be successful. In addition, EER has ceased paying the annual fees required in order to maintain the validity of its patents and therefore certain of its patents are no longer considered EER intellectual property. 5 EER has received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel, and it is therefore obligated to pay certain royalties to the Israeli government from sales of its products, and it is bound by the provisions of the Israeli Research and Development Law EER has received grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry Economy (formerly the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor), or the Office of the Chief Scientist, for the financing of a portion of its research and development expenditures in Israel, pursuant to the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Law, 1984, or the R&D Law. Under the R&D Law, royalties on the revenues derived from sales of products (and related services) developed (all or in part) according to, or as a result of, the Office of the Chief Scientist funded plans are payable to the Israeli government, at annual rates which are determined under the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development Regulations (Rate of Royalties and Rules for the Payment thereof), 1996, or the R&D Regulations, up to the aggregate amount of the grants received by the Office of the Chief Scientist, plus annual interest (as defined in the R&D Regulations). Any intellectual property developed using the Office of the Chief Scientist funds must be wholly owned by the Israeli company which received such funds. The R&D Law restricts the ability to transfer abroad know-how funded by the Office of the Chief Scientist. Transfer of such know-how to a foreign entity requires prior approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist, and is subject to payment of a redemption fee to the Office of the Chief Scientist calculated according to formulas provided under the R&D Law. As of the date of this annual report, EER has received a total of NIS 1.7 million (approximately US$0.5 million), out which amount, it has paid only the principal amount of NIS 0.2 million (approximately US$0.06 million) in royalties. If EER transfers outside of Israel know-how and technology, which were developed according to, or as a result of, the Office of the Chief Scientist funded plans, without obtaining the approval of the Office of the Chief Scientist, it may also be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of the Office of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. These restrictions on transferring technologies and/or manufacturing outside of Israel continue to apply even after EER have repaid any grants, in whole or in part. 