ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. The risks set out below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. There is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred operating losses and negative operating cash flow and future losses are anticipated. The SBA has referred Elk to the Office of Liquidation and has declared Elk’s total indebtedness to the SBA to be immediately due and payable. Further, it may institute legal proceedings seeking the appointment of the SBA as Elk’s receiver and force Elk to liquidate. As such, our ability to pay our indebtedness and/or raise capital has been severely adversely impacted. Management has determined that significant additional sources of capital will likely be required for us to continue operating through the end of our next fiscal year and beyond and we are actively pursuing financing and alternative transactions to strengthen our capitalization. Our plan of obtaining equity financing may not be successful, especially so long as Elk remains in the Office of Liquidation. Our plan of obtaining equity financing, even if successful, may not result in funds sufficient to maintain and expand our business and/or satisfy the capital requirements of the SBA. In addition, restrictions imposed by the SBA may limit our ability to attract potential investors and/or consummate a financing or other transaction. These factors raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Realization of assets is dependent upon our continued operations, which in turn is dependent upon management’s plans to meet its financing requirements and the success of its future operations. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on securing additional financing and on improving our profitability and cash flow. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing or improve profitability and cash flow or that doing so will enable us to continue as a going concern. 21 The delisting of our securities from the Nasdaq Capital Market may adversely affect the market price and liquidity of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock, our ability to raise additional capital and our corporate governance. Effective May 3, 2012 our Common Stock and Preferred Stock were delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market and began trading in the over-the-counter market. Delisting of our securities from the Nasdaq Capital Market could materially and adversely affect the value and liquidity of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. In the absence of an active trading market for our securities, you may be unable to buy or sell your Common Stock or Preferred Stock on short notice, if at all, and the sale of a large number of shares of our Common Stock or Preferred Stock could result in a significant decrease in the market price for our securities. Delisting may also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, which is critical to the execution of our business strategy. As a result of the delisting of our securities from the Nasdaq Capital Market, we are no longer subject to the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, including rules related to corporate governance matters such as the circumstances (including but not limited to certain issuances of our securities) in which shareholder approval is required, requirements regarding the independence of our directors and the existence of committees of our board of directors comprised of independent directors. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional interest (if any) in our securities, and our inability to take advantage of certain exemptions available to listed securities under the Exchange Act and the 1940 Act. We remain subject to corporate governance requirements applicable to BDCs under the 1940 Act, including, without limitation, the requirement that a majority of the board be disinterested directors as determined under the 1940 Act. Our securities are subject to “penny stock” rules which may further reduce the liquidity and market price for our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. Certain securities that are not listed on a national securities exchange, have a trading price below $5.00 and satisfy certain other requirements, such as our Common Stock and Preferred Stock, are subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. Under the SEC’s penny stock rules, among other things, broker-dealers may not sell a penny stock to, or effect the purchase of a penny stock by an investor (other than an accredited investor or an “established customer” as defined in Rule 15g-9), unless, prior to executing the transaction, the broker-deal has determined that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the purchaser (and delivers a written statement of such determination to the purchaser), obtained the purchaser’s written agreement to engage in the transaction, provided the purchaser with a written disclosure document regarding certain risks associated with investing in penny stocks and obtained written acknowledgement from the purchaser that the purchaser has receive the required disclosure documents. Broker-dealers may find it difficult to execute transactions in our Common Stock and Preferred Stock as a result of the penny stock rules summarized above. These requirements may further reduce the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. A failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to raise capital. We need to periodically access the capital markets and, historically, have participated in the SBA debenture program to raise cash to fund new investments. We will not have access to additional SBA financing unless Elk is transferred out of the SBA’s Office of Liquidation (and no assurance can be given that such transfer will occur in the near future or at all). In addition, unfavorable economic conditions, our operating results and uncertainty regarding the continued viability of Elk as a licensed SBIC could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. With certain exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, on a consolidated basis, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ depends on our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current, or obtain new, sources of financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The SBA's declaration of Elk's debentures to be immediately due and payable and Elk's transfer to the SBA’s Office of Liquidation may materially and adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. As an SBIC we must comply with the rules and regulations of the SBA. At June 30, 2012, the aggregate amount of principal, interest and fees due under Elk’s outstanding debentures payable to the SBA was $21,517,506, including $342,506 of interest and fees. On March 6, 2012, we received a notice from the SBA of the SBA's determination that Elk has a condition of impairment, directing Elk to cure the capital impairment within 15 days of the date of the notice and indicating, among other things, that on February 22, 2012, the SBA referred Elk to the SBA’s Office of Liquidation. As the capital impairment has not been cured to date, the SBA has declared Elk's debentures immediately due and payable. If the SBA were to require Elk to immediately repay its outstanding indebtedness, Elk could be required to dispose of its assets in a forced sale that could result in proceeds less than the carrying value of the asset being sold. As a result of Elk's having been referred to the SBA's Office of Liquidation, Elk is not eligible for additional financing from the SBA and the SBA may institute proceedings to place Elk into receivership and to appoint the SBA or its designee as the receiver. The interests represented by any such receiver could differ materially from the interests of our stockholders. In the event Elk is placed in receivership or is otherwise forced to liquidate, our interest in Elk may lose all value, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Elk is placed into receivership, we may be forced to cease operations and liquidate or seek bankruptcy protection, in which case shareholders may receive little or no value for their investment in our securities. In addition, Elk would, likely, not be permitted to make any new investments or significant expenditures without the SBA’s prior approval unless and until it is transferred out of the SBA’s Office of Liquidation. 22 We failed to pay dividends on our Preferred Stock in an amount equal to two years of dividends, so the holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to elect a majority of our directors. The terms of the Preferred stock provide for quarterly dividends in the amount of $0.28125 per outstanding share of Preferred Stock. We have not declared or paid dividends on the Preferred Stock for the quarterly periods ended September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010, March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, September 30, 2011, December 31, 2011, March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012. The terms of the Preferred Stock provide that, if dividends on the Preferred Stock are unpaid in an amount equal to at least two years of dividends, the holders of Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect a majority of our Board of Directors. Accordingly, the holders of our Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect a majority of our the members of our Board of Directors until such time as the accrued but unpaid dividends on our Preferred Stock have been paid. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on a timely basis an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and net short-term capital gain in excess of net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, for each year. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under our loan agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate level income tax. Because we must make distributions to our stockholders, as described above, such amounts, to the extent a stockholder is not participating in our dividend reinvestment plan, will not be available to fund investment originations. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to (i) dispose of certain investments quickly or (ii) raise additional capital to prevent the loss of RIC status. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason and become or remain subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income, if any, available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us and our stockholders. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which may arise if we receive warrants in connection with the making of a loan or possibly in other circumstances, or contracted payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we will not receive in cash, including, for example, non-cash income from pay-in-kind securities and deferred payment securities. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute an amount equal to at least 90% of our ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. 23 Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and borrow money from banks or other financial institutions up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we are permitted, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the Investment Company Act, equals at least 200%, subject to certain exemptive relief we have received with respect to calculating this amount, after such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which would prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from maintaining our status as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. We are not generally able to issue and sell our Common Stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our Common Stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our Common Stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the Common Stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and, in certain instances, our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price which, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). To the extent our Common Stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction may adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Most of our investments are not publicly traded and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our investments. A large percentage of our investments are not publicly traded. The fair value of investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these investments quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors based on the input of our management and audit committee. However, we may be required to value our investments more frequently as determined in good faith by our board of directors to the extent necessary to reflect significant events affecting their value. The types of factors that may be considered in valuing our investments include the enterprise value of the portfolio company, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s ability to make payments and its earnings, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations and, particularly, valuations of private investments and private companies that are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these investments existed and may differ materially from the values that we may ultimately realize. We invest in small businesses which may subject us to losses. Lending to small businesses involves a high degree of business and financial risk, which can result in substantial losses and should be considered speculative. Our borrower base consists primarily of small business owners who have limited resources and who are generally unable to obtain financing from banks or other primary sources. There is generally no publicly available information about these small business owners, and we must rely on the diligence of our employees and agents to obtain information in connection with our credit decisions. In addition, these small businesses often do not have audited financial statements. Some smaller businesses have narrower product lines and market shares than their competition. Therefore, they may be more vulnerable to customer preferences, market conditions, or economic downturns, which may adversely affect the return on, or the recovery of, our investment in these businesses. Our ability to achieve our investment objective depends on our senior management’s ability to support our investment process; if we were to lose any of our senior management, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We have a small number of employees and, as a result, we depend on the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of our senior management. Our senior management team, with the assistance of outside advisors, evaluates, negotiates, structures, executes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of the principals of our investment senior management team. The departure of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. In particular, we are reliant on the continued service of our chief executive officer, Michael Feinsod. While we believe that we have partially mitigated loss of his services through his potential departure by entering into an employment contract with him, if he was not available to us, for any reason, our operations and our ability to reach our objectives would be severely adversely affected. 24 Declining asset values and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing the value of our assets. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is readily available, at fair value as determined in good faith by the board of directors. Decreases in the values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. The unprecedented declines in asset values and liquidity in the corporate debt markets have resulted in significant net unrealized depreciation in our portfolio. As a result, we have incurred and, depending on market conditions, we may incur further unrealized depreciation in future periods, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. As we generally make investments in private companies, substantially all of these investments are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including the interest rate payable on the debt investments we make, the default rate on such investments, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses and the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation thereof, and any failure by us to comply with laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation by laws at the local, state and federal levels. These laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation, may be changed from time to time. Accordingly, any change in these laws or regulations, or their interpretation, or any failure by us to comply with these laws or regulations may adversely affect our business. As discussed above, there is a risk that certain investments that we intend to treat as qualifying assets will be determined to not be eligible for such treatment. Any such determination would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have a history of losses and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our business will suffer and our stock price is likely to decline. We have not operated at a profit in recent years and we incurred a loss in fiscal 2012 and may incur additional losses in 2013. At June 30, 2012, we had net liabilities of approximately $3.6 million, a decline of approximately $5.8 million from the prior fiscal year-end. As a result, we will need to significantly increase our revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating and development expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted, accordingly, we may incur further losses in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we fail to increase revenues, we will not achieve or maintain profitability. Our revenues have declined from $6.3 million in 2008 to $2.1 million in 2012. To achieve profitability, we will need to increase revenues substantially through implementation of our growth strategy and/or reduce expenses significantly. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our current relationships could be terminated and we may not be able to obtain additional financing. We had a line of credit with one bank that had been paid in full as of August 31, 2010 and which expired on July 6, 2011. We anticipate that, as the need for additional working capital arises from time to time, we may seek to establish new credit lines, subject to approval from the applicable lenders. We currently anticipate that, assuming we are not forced into liquidation by the SBA, our available cash resources, combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, additional financing may be required to satisfy our operating requirements and we cannot provide assurance that such additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by these financing limitations. 25 We are currently in a period of capital markets disruption and conditions may not improve in the near future. The current market conditions have materially and adversely affected the debt and equity capital markets in the United States, which could have a negative impact on our business and operations. The US capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than 36 months as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. These events have contributed to worsening general economic conditions that are materially and adversely impacting the broader financial and credit markets and reducing the availability of credit and equity capital for the markets as a whole and financial services firms in particular. As a result, we believe these conditions may continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future. A prolonged period of market illiquidity will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, we generally are not able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. In addition, the debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions. These events and the inability to raise capital may significantly limit our originations, therefore, our ability to grow and, potentially, limit our operating results. Economic turmoil, including the current market turmoil, could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of the companies in which we have made or will make investments are susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions. Economic turmoil, including the current economic slowdown and future slowdowns or recessions, may affect the ability of a company to repay our loans or engage in a liquidity event such as a sale, recapitalization, or initial public offering. Our nonperforming assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Current adverse economic conditions also have decreased the value of collateral securing our loans, if any, and a prolonged recession or depression may further decrease such value. These conditions are contributing to and, if prolonged, could lead to further losses of value in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income, assets and net worth. We borrow money to fund our operations, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested, and therefore increase the risk associated with investing in us. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, investment banks and other lenders and through long-term subordinated SBA debentures. These creditors have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our shareholders. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. In addition, our existing indebtedness may have important consequences, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, future investments and other general corporate requirements; increasing the cost of future borrowing; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments and/or mandatory repayments or acceleration payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of available cash flows for working capital, future investments and other general corporate purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our industry. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 