Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risk factors relate specifically to the risks associated with our continuing operations. Risks Associated with Our Operations The global economic recession and disruptions in the financial markets, and their impact on us, are uncertain. The magnitude and pace of recovery from the global economic recession and the worldwide financial and credit market disruptions is uncertain. We are focused on strong cost control and productivity improvements, increased contributions from our high-margin operations, and exercising tight capital discipline. However, there can be no assurance that these actions, or any others that we may take in response to further deterioration in economic and financial conditions, will be sufficient. A return to the global recession or further disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A decline in coal prices could negatively affect our profitability. Our profitability depends upon the prices we receive for our coal. Coal prices are dependent upon factors beyond our control, including: • the demand for electricity and the strength of the global economy; • the demand for steel, which may lead to price fluctuations in the annual repricing of our metallurgical coal contracts; • the supply of U.S. domestic and international thermal and metallurgical coal; • competition within our industry and the availability and price of alternative fuels and energy sources; • the proximity, capacity and cost of transportation; 17 Table of Contents • coal industry capacity; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes, including those establishing air emission standards for coal-fueled power plants; • regulatory, administrative and judicial decisions, including those affecting future mining permits; and • technological developments, including those intended to convert coal to liquids or gas and those aimed at capturing and storing carbon dioxide. As of January 26, 2010, we are fully contracted for 2010 at planned production levels in the U.S. and have 4.5 to 5.5 million tons of Australian metallurgical coal and 6.5 to 7.0 million tons of Australian thermal coal available to price. If we experience a weak coal pricing environment resulting in a deterioration of coal prices, we could experience an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. If a substantial number of our long-term coal supply agreements terminate, our revenues and operating profits could suffer if we are unable to find alternate buyers willing to purchase our coal on comparable terms to those in our contracts. Most of our sales are made under coal supply agreements, which are important to the stability and profitability of our operations. The execution of a satisfactory coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract, particularly in the U.S. In 2009, 93% of our worldwide sales volume was sold under long-term coal supply agreements. At January 31, 2010, our sales backlog, including backlog subject to price reopener and/or extension provisions, was over one billion tons, representing nearly five years of current production in backlog. Contracts in backlog have remaining terms ranging from one to 17 years. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit the parties to adjust the contract price upward or downward at specified times. We may adjust these contract prices based on inflation or deflation and/or changes in the factors affecting the cost of producing coal, such as taxes, fees, royalties and changes in the laws regulating the mining, production, sale or use of coal. In a limited number of contracts, failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to terminate the contract. We sometimes experience a reduction in coal prices in new long-term coal supply agreements replacing some of our expiring contracts. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. Moreover, some of these agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if transportation costs, which our customers typically bear, increase substantially. In addition, some of these contracts allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the customer’s plant or increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements were modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. Market prices for coal vary by mining region and country. As a result, we cannot predict the future strength of the coal market overall or by mining region and cannot assure you that we will be able to replace existing long-term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire. 18 Table of Contents The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. In 2009, we derived 28% of our total coal sales revenues from our five largest customers (excluding trading transactions). At December 31, 2009, we had 79 coal supply agreements with these customers expiring at various times from 2010 to 2016. We are currently discussing the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with some of these customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements. If a number of these customers significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we are unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer materially. In addition, our revenue could be adversely affected by a decline in customer purchases due to lack of demand, cost of competing fuels and environmental regulations. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered or for financially settled contracts depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers and counterparties. Our customer base has changed with deregulation as utilities have sold their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties. These new power plant owners or other customers may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. If deterioration of the creditworthiness of our customers occurs, our $275.0 million accounts receivable securitization program and our business could be adversely affected. Risks inherent to mining could increase the cost of operating our business. Our mining operations are subject to conditions that can impact the safety of our workforce, or delay coal deliveries or increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time. These conditions include fires and explosions from methane gas or coal dust; accidental minewater discharges; weather, flooding and natural disasters; unexpected maintenance problems; key equipment failures; variations in coal seam thickness; variations in the amount of rock and soil overlying the coal deposit; variations in rock and other natural materials; and variations in geologic conditions. We maintain insurance policies that provide limited coverage for some of these risks, although there can be no assurance that these risks would be fully covered by our insurance policies. Despite our efforts, significant mine accidents could occur and have a substantial impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If transportation for our coal becomes unavailable or uneconomic for our customers, our ability to sell coal could suffer. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal and the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs and the lack of sufficient rail and port capacity could lead to reduced coal sales. As of December 31, 2009, certain coal supply agreements permit the customer to terminate the contract if the cost of transportation increases by an amount over specified levels in any given 12-month period. We depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and ocean-going vessels to deliver coal to markets. While our coal customers typically arrange and pay for transportation of coal from the mine or port to the point of use, disruption of these transportation services because of weather-related problems, infrastructure damage, strikes, lock-outs, lack of fuel or maintenance items, underperformance of the port and rail infrastructure, congestion and balancing systems which are imposed to manage vessel queuing and demurrage, transportation delays or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers and thus could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents A decrease in the availability or increase in costs of key supplies, capital equipment or commodities such as diesel fuel, steel, explosives and tires could decrease our anticipated profitability. Our mining operations require a reliable supply of mining equipment, replacement parts, explosives, fuel, tires, steel-related products (including roof control) and lubricants. Recent consolidation of suppliers of explosives has limited the number of sources for these materials, and our current supply of explosives is concentrated with one supplier. Further, our purchases of some items of underground mining equipment are concentrated with one principal supplier. If the cost of any of these inputs increased significantly, or if a source for these supplies or mining equipment were unavailable to meet our replacement demands, our profitability could be reduced. An inability of trading, brokerage, mining or freight sources to fulfill the delivery terms of their contracts with us could reduce our profitability. In conducting our trading, brokerage and mining operations, we utilize third-party sources of coal production and transportation, including contract miners and brokerage sources, to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. In Australia, the majority of our volume comes from mines that utilize contract miners. Employee relations at mines that use contract miners is the responsibility of the contractor. Our profitability or exposure to loss on transactions or relationships is dependent upon the reliability (including financial viability) and price of the third-party suppliers, our obligation to supply coal to customers in the event that adverse geologic mining conditions restrict deliveries from our suppliers, our willingness to participate in temporary cost increases experienced by our third-party coal suppliers, our ability to pass on temporary cost increases to our customers, the ability to substitute, when economical, third-party coal sources with internal production or coal purchased in the market and the ability of our freight sources to fulfill their delivery obligations. Market volatility and price increases for coal or freight on the international and domestic markets could result in non-performance by third-party suppliers under existing contracts with us, in order to take advantage of the higher prices in the current market. Such non-performance could have an adverse impact on our ability to fulfill deliveries under our coal supply agreements. Our hedging activities may expose us to earnings volatility and other risks. We enter into hedging arrangements designed primarily to manage our exposure to explosives, diesel fuel, foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. Generally, we attempt to designate hedging arrangements as cash flow hedges with gains or losses recorded as a separate component of stockholders’ equity until the hedged transaction occurs (or until hedge ineffectiveness is determined). While we utilize a variety of risk monitoring and mitigation strategies, those strategies require judgment and they cannot anticipate every potential outcome or the timing of such outcomes. As such, there is potential for these hedges to no longer qualify for hedge accounting. If that were to happen, we will be required to recognize the mark to market movements through current year earnings, possibly resulting in increased volatility in our income in future periods. Additionally, some of our hedging arrangements require us to post margin based on the value of those hedging arrangements and other credit factors. If our credit is downgraded, the fair value of our hedge positions move significantly, or laws or regulations are passed requiring all hedge arrangements to be exchange-traded or exchange-cleared, we could be required to post additional margin, which could impact our liquidity. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel or fail to attract qualified personnel. We manage our business with a number of key personnel, the loss of whom could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that key personnel will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain 20 Table of Contents qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 7,300 employees. Approximately 29% of our hourly employees were represented by unions and they generated approximately 10% of our 2009 coal production. Additionally, those employed through contract mining relationships in Australia are also members of unions. Relations with our employees and, where applicable, organized labor are important to our success. If some or all of our current non-union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. Our mining operations could be adversely affected if we fail to appropriately secure our obligations. U.S. federal and state laws and Australian laws require us to secure certain of our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. The primary methods for us to meet those obligations are to post a corporate guarantee (i.e., self bond), provide a third-party surety bond or provide a letter of credit. As of December 31, 2009, we had $821.9 million of self bonding in place for our reclamation obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we also had outstanding surety bonds with third parties and letters of credit of $1,270.3 million, of which $807.2 million was for post-mining reclamation, $51.7 million related to workers’ compensation obligations, $116.3 million was for coal lease obligations and $295.1 million was for other obligations, including collateral for surety companies and bank guarantees, road maintenance and performance guarantees. Surety bonds are typically renewable on a yearly basis. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral upon those renewals. Letters of credit are subject to our successful renewal of our Senior Unsecured Credit Facility, which expires in 2011. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds or letters of credit or to provide a suitable alternative would have a material adverse effect on us. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds; • restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our indentures or Senior Unsecured Credit Facility; • the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety; and • inability to renew our credit facility. Our ability to self bond reduces our costs of providing financial assurances. To the extent we are unable to maintain our current level of self bonding, due to legislative or regulatory changes or changes in our financial condition, our costs would increase. Our mining operations are extensively regulated, which imposes significant costs on us, and future regulations and developments could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Federal, state and local authorities regulate the coal mining industry with respect to matters such as employee health and safety, permitting and licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after mining is completed, the discharge of materials into the environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that mining has on groundwater quality and availability. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. We are required to prepare and present to federal, state and local authorities data pertaining to the effect that any proposed exploration for or production of coal may have upon the environment. The public, including non-governmental organizations, opposition groups and individuals, have statutory rights to comment upon and submit objections to requested permits and approvals. The costs, liabilities and requirements associated with these regulations may be costly and time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or production. 21 Table of Contents The possibility exists that new legislation and/or regulations and orders related to the environment or employee health and safety may be adopted and may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and/or our customers’ ability to use coal. New legislation or administrative regulations (or judicial interpretations of existing laws and regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the environment or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us or our customers to change operations significantly or incur increased costs. Some of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A number of laws, including in the U.S. the CERCLA, impose liability relating to contamination by hazardous substances. Such liability may involve the costs of investigating or remediating contamination and damages to natural resources, as well as claims seeking to recover for property damage or personal injury caused by hazardous substances. Such liability may arise from conditions at formerly, as well as currently, owned or operated properties, and at properties to which hazardous substances have been sent for treatment, disposal, or other handling. Liability under CERCLA and similar state statutes is without regard to fault, and typically is joint and several, meaning that a person may be held responsible for more than its share, or even all of, the liability involved. Our mining operations involve some use of hazardous materials. In addition, we have accrued for liability arising out of contamination associated with Gold Fields Mining, LLC (Gold Fields), a dormant, non-coal-producing subsidiary of ours that was previously managed and owned by Hanson PLC, or with Gold Fields’ former affiliates. Hanson PLC, which is a predecessor owner of ours, transferred ownership of Gold Fields to us in the February 1997 spin-off of its energy business. Gold Fields is currently a defendant in several lawsuits and has received notices of several other potential claims arising out of lead contamination from mining and milling operations it conducted in northeastern Oklahoma. Gold Fields is also involved in investigating or remediating a number of other contaminated sites. See Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a description of pending legal proceedings involving Gold Fields. If the assumptions underlying our asset retirement obligations for reclamation and mine closures are materially inaccurate, our costs could be significantly greater than anticipated. Our asset retirement obligations primarily consist of spending estimates for surface land reclamation and support facilities at both surface and underground mines in accordance with federal and state reclamation laws in the U.S. and Australia as defined by each mining permit. These obligations are determined for each mine using various estimates and assumptions including, among other items, estimates of disturbed acreage as determined from engineering data, estimates of future costs to reclaim the disturbed acreage and the timing of these cash flows, discounted using a credit-adjusted, risk-free rate. Our management and engineers periodically review these estimates. If our assumptions do not materialize as expected, actual cash expenditures and costs that we incur could be materially different than currently estimated. Moreover, regulatory changes could increase our obligation to perform reclamation and mine closing activities. The resulting estimated asset retirement obligation could change significantly if actual amounts change significantly from our assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, and financial condition. Our future success depends upon our ability to continue acquiring and developing coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to use all of our reserves. Moreover, the amount of proven and probable coal reserves described in 