Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business Our inability to manage medical costs effectively would reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage medical costs. Changes in healthcare regulations and practices, level of use of healthcare services, hospital costs, pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics, new medical technologies and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as inflation levels or natural disasters, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to predict and effectively control the costs of healthcare services. Although we attempt to manage medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to primary care physicians and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical management and quality management programs, and our information systems and reinsurance arrangements, we may not be able to manage costs effectively in the future. In addition, new products or new markets, such as New Mexico and Nevada, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively manage medical costs. It is possible that there could be an increase in the volume or value of appeals for claims previously denied and claims previously paid to non-network providers will be appealed and subsequently reprocessed at higher amounts. This would result in an adjustment to health benefits expense. If our costs for medical services increase, our profits could be reduced, or we may not remain profitable. We maintain reinsurance to help protect us against severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we can provide no assurance that such reinsurance coverage will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain appropriate levels of coverage. Our limited ability to predict our incurred medical expenses accurately has in the past and could in the future materially impact our reported results. Our health benefits expenses include estimates of the cost of claims for services rendered to our members that are yet to be received, or incurred but not reported (“IBNR”). We estimate our IBNR health benefits expenses based on a number of factors, including authorization data, prior claims experience, maturity of markets, complexity and mix of products and stability of provider networks. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to health benefits expenses in the period during which the actual claim costs are ultimately determined or when underlying assumptions or factors used to estimate IBNR change. In addition to using our internal resources, we utilize the services of independent actuaries who are contracted on a routine basis to calculate and review the adequacy of our medical claims payable. We cannot be sure that our current or future IBNR estimates are adequate or that any further adjustments to such IBNR estimates will not harm or benefit our results of operations. Further, our inability to accurately estimate IBNR may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of the harm on our results of operations. Though we employ substantial efforts to estimate our IBNR at each reporting date, we can give no assurance that the ultimate results will not materially differ from our estimates resulting in a material increase or decrease in our health benefits expenses in the period such difference is determined. New products or new markets, such as New Mexico and Nevada, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively predict health benefits expenses. One emerging factor that could impact our ability to estimate IBNR is the implementation of the National Provider Identifier (“NPI”) program, which is the employment of a unique identification number adopted under HIPAA that covered healthcare providers and all health plans and healthcare clearinghouses are required to use in administrative and financial transactions. Implementation of NPI was required as of May 23, 2008. We met the requirements according to the timelines in each of the states in which we do business during 2008. However, each state in which we do business can and in some cases has modified the specific technical requirements of NPI and in some cases this can and has caused challenges in processing claims transactions as providers may not always meet the requirements in the time and manner dictated. As a result claims billings we receive and subsequent payments we make may be delayed. Consequently, our claims payment patterns on which we rely to make actuarial judgments 21 Table of Contents in estimating future claims payable may not be reliable which could result in ultimate health benefits expenses that differ materially from our estimates. Changes in the number of Medicaid eligible beneficiaries, or benefits provided to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries or a change in mix of Medicaid eligible beneficiaries could cause our operating results to suffer. Historically, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has increased more rapidly during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions such as those we are experiencing in the current recession. However, during such economic downturns, state budgets could decrease, causing states to attempt to cut healthcare programs, benefits and rates. If this were to happen while our membership was increasing, our results of operations could suffer. The current economic recession may result in such outcomes in the near term. Conversely, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline if economic conditions improve, thereby causing our operating results to suffer. In either case, in the event that the Company experiences a change in product mix to less profitable product lines, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Receipt of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums would negatively impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member. These premiums are fixed by contract, and we are obligated during the contract period to facilitate access to healthcare services as established by the state governments. We have less control over costs related to the provision of healthcare services than we do over our selling, general and administrative expenses. Historically, our reported expenses related to health benefits as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. For example, our expenses related to health benefits were 81.4% of our premium revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008, 83.1% of our premium revenue in 2007, and 81.1% of our premium revenue in 2006. If health benefits expenses increase at a higher rate than premium increases, our results of operations would be impacted negatively. In addition, if there is a significant delay in our premium rate increases to offset previously incurred health benefits costs increases, our earnings could be negatively impacted. Premiums are contractually payable to us before or during the month for services that we are obligated to provide to our members. Our cash flow would be negatively impacted if premium payments are not made according to contract terms. As participants in state and Federal healthcare programs, we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to frequent lawsuits and claims against us, and the outcome of these lawsuits and claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our operations are subject to various state and Federal healthcare laws commonly referred to as “fraud and abuse” laws, including the Federal False Claims Act. The Federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to the Federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual (known as a “relator” or, more commonly, “whistleblower”) on behalf of the government. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid or other state or Federal healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. In addition, the DRA encourages states to enact state-versions of the False Claims Act that establish liability to the state for false and fraudulent Medicaid claims and that provide for, among other things, claims to be filed by qui tam relators. In 2002, a former employee of our former Illinois subsidiary filed a qui tam action alleging that the subsidiary had submitted false claims under the Medicaid program by maintaining a scheme to discourage or avoid the enrollment into the health plan of pregnant women and other recipients with special needs. Subsequently, the State of Illinois and the United States of America intervened and the Company was added as a defendant. On October 30, 22 Table of Contents 2006, a jury returned a verdict against the Company and the subsidiary in the amount of $48.0 million which under applicable law was trebled to $144.0 million plus penalties, and attorney’s fees, costs and expenses. The jury also found that there were 18,130 false claims. In March 2007, the court entered a judgment against the Company and the subsidiary in the amount of approximately $334.0 million which included $144.0 million of damages and approximately $190.0 million in false claim penalties. In August 2008, the Company settled this matter and paid the aggregate amount of $225.0 million as a settlement plus approximately $9.2 million to the former employee for legal fees. Further, Congress is currently considering amendments to the False Claims Act that would substantially broaden its coverage. There is currently one version of the new legislation in the Senate and another in the House of Representatives, both titled “The False Claims Act Correction Act of 2007.” The proposed legislation would expand the reach of the False Claims Act by removing the requirement that the alleged false claim be submitted to the Government, and instead permit liability any time government money or property is involved. In addition, both bills propose to create a 10-year statute of limitations, eliminate a defendant’s ability to seek dismissal of a qui tam claim in which the relator was not an original source of the information in the complaint, and empower government employees to bring qui tam suits. If either of these bills becomes law, it could substantially increase the number of false claims actions against healthcare companies. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with the healthcare laws applicable to our Company, we can give no assurances that we will not be subject to additional False Claims Act suits in the future. Any violations of any of applicable fraud and abuse laws or any False Claims Act suit against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could negatively impact our profitability and subject us to fines, penalties and liquidated damages. We contract with various state governmental agencies to provide managed healthcare services. These contracts contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to state and program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages that could impact our profitability. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the state and we could be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to comply could also affect future membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Under the terms of our contracts with state governmental agencies, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations to verify our compliance with the contracts and applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse review, audit or investigation could result in any of the following: refunds of premiums we have been paid pursuant to our contracts; imposition of fines, penalties and other sanctions; loss of our right to participate in various markets; or loss of one or more of our licenses. Any such finding could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Changes in Medicaid or Medicare funding by the Federal government or the states could substantially reduce our profitability. Most of our revenues come from state government Medicaid premiums. The base premium rate paid by each state differs, depending on a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility category. Future levels of Medicaid premium rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs and may further be affected by state and Federal budgetary constraints. Changes to Medicaid programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under such programs. States periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend for Medicaid. We believe that additional reductions in Medicaid payments could substantially reduce our profitability. Further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. 23 Table of Contents State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs. The current economic recession has, and is expected to continue to, put pressures on state budgets as tax and other state revenues decrease while the Medicaid eligible population increases, creating more need for funding. We anticipate this will require government agencies with whom we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for current programs and program expansions, contraction of covered benefits, limited or no premium rate increases or premium decreases. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Additionally, a portion of our premium revenues comes from CMS through our Medicare Advantage contracts. As a consequence, our Medicare Advantage plans are dependent on government funding levels. The premium rates paid to Medicare health plans are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories, and the plan’s risk scores. Some members of Congress have proposed significant cuts in payments to Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, continuing government efforts to contain healthcare related expenditures, including prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits or mandate additional benefits, and reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare, which in turn could reduce the number of beneficiaries enrolled in our health plans and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. If state governments do not renew our contracts on favorable terms or we fail to retain our contracts as a result of a re-bidding process, our business and results of operations will suffer. We earn substantially all of our revenues by serving members who receive healthcare benefits through contracts with the regulatory entities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our Texas contract represented 27% of our premium revenues and our Georgia, Maryland and Tennessee contracts individually accounted for over 10% of our premium revenues. Collectively, these contracts represent a significant portion of our net income. If these contracts were not renewed on favorable terms or were terminated for cause or otherwise, it could materially impact our revenues and operating results. Some of our contracts are subject to a re-bidding or re-application process. For example, our Texas markets are re-bid every six years (and were last re-bid in 2005). If we lost a contract through the re-bidding process, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in a specific market, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Delays in program expansions or contract changes could negatively impact our business. In any program start-up, expansion, or re-bid, the state’s ability to manage the implementation as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. These include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, membership assignment/allocation for members who do not self-select, and errors in the bidding process, as well as difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers. Our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes. If a state fails to renew its Federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under Federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the Federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business would suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. 24 Table of Contents We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by state governments, and in the case of our Medicare Advantage members, by the Federal government. Inaccuracies in those lists would negatively affect our results of operations. Premium payments to us are based upon eligibility lists produced by government enrollment data. From time to time, governments require us to reimburse them for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a government later determines contains individuals who are not in fact eligible for a government sponsored program or have been enrolled twice in the same program or are eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Alternatively, a government could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to receive payment. Our results of operations would be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the government or inability to receive payments we are due if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. Our inability to operate new business opportunities at underwritten levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. In underwriting new business opportunities we must estimate future health benefits expenses. We utilize a range of information and develop numerous assumptions. The information we use can often include, but is not limited to, historical cost data, population demographics, experience from other markets, trend assumptions and other general underwriting factors. The information we utilize may be inadequate or not applicable and our assumptions may be incorrect. If our underwriting estimates are incorrect, our cost experience could be materially different than expected. If costs are higher than expected, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to maintain good relations with providers could harm our profitability or subject us to material fines, penalties or sanctions. We contract with providers as a means to assure access to healthcare services for our members, to manage healthcare costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption to provider access for current members, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Our provider arrangements with our primary care physicians and specialists usually are for one- to two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year terms, subject to termination by us for cause based on provider conduct or other appropriate reasons. The contracts generally may be canceled by either party upon 90 to 120 days prior written notice. Our contracts with hospitals are usually for one- to two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year periods, subject to termination for cause due to provider misconduct or other appropriate reasons. Generally, our hospital contracts may be canceled by either party without cause on 90 to 120 days prior written notice. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to service our members profitably. We will be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. Although we have established long-term relationships with many of our providers, we may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms. If we are unable to retain our current provider contracts or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability will be harmed. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and some specialists, may have significant market positions. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts to themselves, our profitability could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members are not contracted with our health plans (non-network providers). In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the non-network provider and the health plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to non-network providers as compensation is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances non-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their 25 Table of Contents services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or liquidity. We are required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets and to maintain such networks as a condition to continued operation in those markets. If we are unable to retain our current provider networks or establish provider networks in new markets in a timely manner or on favorable terms, our profitability could be harmed. Further if we are unable to retain our current provider networks, we may be subject to material fines, penalties or sanctions from state or Federal regulatory authorities. Our inability to integrate, manage and grow our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations. Our operations are significantly dependent on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status and other information. We operate the majority of our markets on claims management application called, FACETS. As of December 31, 2008, we process claims payments using FACETS for all of our markets except for our New Jersey and Ohio markets. These remaining markets operate on our legacy system, AMISYS. We expect to convert these markets to FACETS during 2009. We believe that FACETS will meet our software needs and will support our long-term growth strategies. However, if we cannot execute a successful system conversion for our remaining health plans, our operations could be disrupted, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and our ability to grow could be harmed. Our information systems and applications require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, our acquisition activity requires frequent transitions to or from, and the integration of, various information systems. We are continually upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly maintain or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. Failure of a business in a new state or market would negatively impact our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority and obtain a state contract in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our ability to be able to process claims. If we were unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary license, winning the bid to provide service or attracting members in numbers sufficient to cover our costs, the new business would fail. We also could be obligated by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or recover start-up costs. The costs associated with starting up the business could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, if the new business does not operate at underwritten levels, our profitability could be harmed. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy or integrating acquired business could adversely affect our business. Historically, acquisitions including the acquisition of publicly sponsored program contract rights and related assets of other health plans, both in our existing service areas and in new markets, have been a significant factor in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that acquisitions similar in nature to those we have historically executed, or other acquisitions we may consider, will continue to contribute to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets have greater financial resources than we have. Furthermore, many of the sellers are interested in either (1) selling, along with their publicly sponsored program assets, other assets in which we do not have an interest; or (2) selling their companies, including their liabilities, as opposed to just the assets of the ongoing business. Therefore, we 26 Table of Contents cannot be sure that we will be able to complete acquisitions on terms favorable to us or that we can obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions, particularly given the current credit environment. We are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making these acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire a new business, we may be required to obtain certain necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. Our existing credit facility imposes certain restrictions on acquisitions. We may become subject to more limitations under any future credit facility. We may not be able to meet these restrictions. In addition to the difficulties we may face in identifying and consummating acquisitions, we will also be required to integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations, • existing provider networks, which may operate on different terms than our existing networks, • existing members, who may decide to switch to another healthcare provider, and • disparate information and record keeping systems. We may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on to our technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitably. There can be no assurance that incurring expenses to acquire a business will result in the acquisition being consummated. These expenses could impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to competition that impacts our ability to increase our penetration of the markets that we serve. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional fee-for-service programs that reimburse providers as care is provided. Some of the health plans with which we compete have substantially larger enrollments, greater financial and other resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do. While many states mandate health plan enrollment for Medicaid eligible participants, including all of those in which we do business except for South Carolina, the programs are voluntary in other states. Subject to limited exceptions by Federally approved state applications, the Federal government requires that there be a choice for Medicaid recipients among managed care programs. Voluntary programs and mandated competition will impact our ability to increase our market share. In addition, in most states in which we operate we are not allowed to market directly to potential members, and therefore, we rely on creating name brand recognition through our community-based programs. Where we have only recently entered a market or compete with health plans much larger than we are, we may be at a competitive disadvantage unless and until our community-based programs and other promotional activities create brand awareness. Negative publicity regarding the managed care industry may harm our business and operating results. In the past, the managed care industry has received negative publicity. This publicity has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private litigation in the commercial sector. These factors may adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our services and increase the regulatory 27 Table of Contents burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and adversely affecting our operating results. We may be subject to claims relating to medical malpractice, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Our providers and employees involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of medical malpractice claims. Some states have passed or are considering legislation that permits managed care organizations to be held liable for negligent treatment decisions or benefits coverage determinations and or eliminate the requirement that certain providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. This kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. This could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Therefore, successful malpractice or tort claims asserted against us, our providers or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to other litigation that may adversely affect our business or results of operations. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liabilities that might adversely affect our business or results of operations. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would still have to defend ourselves against such claims. Any such defenses may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. Risks related to being a regulated entity Changes in government regulations designed to protect providers and members could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business and results of operations. Our business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the Federal government. These laws and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than us and our stockholders. Changes in existing laws and rules, the enactment of new laws and rules and changing interpretations of these laws and rules could, among other things: • force us to change how we do business, • restrict revenue and enrollment growth, • increase our health benefits and administrative costs, • impose additional capital requirements, and • increase or change our claims liability. Regulations could limit our profits as a percentage of revenues. Our New Jersey and Maryland subsidiaries, as well as our CHIP product in Florida, are subject to minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenue. Our Florida subsidiary is subject to minimum behavioral health expense levels as a percentage of behavioral health premium revenues. In New Jersey, Maryland and Florida, premium revenue recoupment may occur if these levels are not met. In addition, our Ohio subsidiary is subject to certain limits on administrative costs and our Virginia subsidiary is subject to a limit on profits. These regulatory requirements, changes in these requirements and additional requirements by our other regulators could limit our ability to increase or maintain our overall profits as a percentage of revenues, which could harm our operating results. We have been required, and may in the future be required, to make payments to the states as a result of not meeting these expense levels. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the states and we could be subject to fines and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to 28 Table of Contents comply could also affect future rate determinations and membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Our Texas health plan is required to pay an experience rebate to the State of Texas in the event profits exceed established levels. We file experience rebate calculation reports with the State for this purpose. These reports are subject to audits and if the audit results in unfavorable adjustments to our filed reports, our results of operations and liquidity could be negatively impacted. Changes in healthcare laws could reduce our profitability. Numerous proposals relating to changes in healthcare law have been introduced, some of which have been passed by Congress and the states in which we operate or may operate in the future. These include Medicaid reform initiatives in Florida, as well as waivers requested by states for various elements of their programs. Changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered and interpretations of existing laws and rules may also change from time to time. We are unable to predict what regulatory changes may occur or what effect any particular change may have on our business and results of operations. Although some changes in government regulations, such as the removal of the requirements on the enrollment mix between commercial and public sector membership, have encouraged managed care participation in public sector programs, we are unable to predict whether new laws or proposals will continue to favor or hinder the growth of managed healthcare. We cannot predict the outcome of these legislative or regulatory proposals, nor the effect which they might have on us. Legislation or regulations that require us to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements could seriously harm our operations and financial results. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends, distributions or administrative fees by our subsidiaries to us, it could negatively affect our business strategy and liquidity. We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to state insurance holding company system and other regulations that limit the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. We also have administrative services agreements with our subsidiaries in which we agree to provide them with services and benefits (both tangible and intangible) in exchange for the payment of a fee. Some states limit the administrative fees which our subsidiaries may pay. For example, Ohio limits administrative fees paid to an affiliate to the cost of providing the services. If the regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or restrict or disallow the payment of the administrative fee or not allow us to recover the costs of providing the services under our administrative services agreement or require a significant change in the timing or manner in which we recover those costs, the funds available to our Company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy, expand our infrastructure, improve our information technology systems, make needed capital expenditures and service our debt as well as negatively impact our liquidity. If state regulatory agencies require a statutory capital level higher than the state regulations we may be required to make additional capital contributions. Our operations are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which include HMOs, one HIC and one PHSP. HMOs, HICs, and PHSPs are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and the maintenance of certain financial ratios (which are referred to as risk based capital requirements), as defined by each state. Certain states also require performance bonds or letters of credit from our subsidiaries. Additionally, state regulatory agencies may require, at their discretion, individual regulated entities to maintain statutory capital levels higher than the state regulations. If this were to occur or other requirements change for one of our subsidiaries, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to the affected subsidiary. Any additional capital contribution made to one of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to grow. 29 Table of Contents Failure to comply with government laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and limitations on our profitability. We are subject to numerous local, state and Federal laws and regulations. Violation of the laws or regulations governing our operations could result in the imposition of sanctions, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services, or in the extreme case, the suspension or revocation of our licenses. We can give no assurance that the terms of our contracts with the states or the manner in which we are directed to comply with our state contracts is in accordance with the CMS regulations. We may be subject to material fines or other sanctions in the future. If we became subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially and adversely affected. From time to time we have been subject to sanctions as a result of violations of marketing regulations. Although we train our employees with respect to compliance with local, state and Federal laws of each of the states in which we do business, no assurance can be given that violations will not occur. We are, or may become subject to, various state and Federal laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws. State and Federal laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent or abusive. The submission of claims to a state or Federal healthcare program for items and services that are determined to be “not provided as claimed” may lead to the imposition of civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and Federally funded healthcare programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The DRA requires all entities that receive $5.0 million or more in annual Medicaid funds to establish specific written policies for their employees, contractors, and agents regarding various false claims-related laws and whistleblower protections under such laws as well as provisions regarding their polices and procedures for detecting and preventing fraud, waste and abuse. These requirements are conditions of receiving all future payments under the Medicaid program. Entities were required to comply with the compliance related provisions of the DRA by January 1, 2007. We believe that we have made appropriate efforts to meet the requirements of the compliance provisions of the DRA. However, if it is determined that we have not met the requirements appropriately, we could be subject to civil penalties and/or be barred from receiving future payments under the Medicaid programs in the states in which we operate thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operation and financial condition. HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things, billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. HIPAA establishes new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including a whistleblower program. Further, HIPAA imposes civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with the privacy and security standards set forth in the regulation. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 expands the coverage of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions and increasing penalties for violations. The Federal government has enacted, and state governments are enacting, other fraud and abuse laws as well. Our failure to comply with HIPAA or these other laws could result in criminal or civil penalties and exclusion from Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs and could lead to the revocation of our licenses. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impact our ability to operate our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over our financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be 30 Table of Contents material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Compliance with the terms and conditions of our Corporate Integrity Agreement requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or excluded from participation in government healthcare programs, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. In August 2008, in connection with the settlement of a qui tam action, we entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”). The Corporate Integrity Agreement provides that we shall, among other things, keep in place and continue our current compliance program, including a corporate compliance officer and compliance officers at its health plans, a corporate compliance committee and compliance committees at our health plans, a compliance committee of our Board of Directors, a code of conduct, comprehensive compliance policies, training and monitoring, a compliance hotline, an open door policy and a disciplinary process for compliance violations. The Corporate Integrity Agreement further provides that we shall provide periodic reports to the OIG, appoint a benefits rights ombudsman responsible for addressing concerns raised by health plan members and potential enrollees and engage an independent review organization to assist us in assessing and evaluating our compliance with the requirements of the Federal healthcare programs and other obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement. Maintaining the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement is expected to continue to require a significant portion of management’s attention as well as the application of significant resources. Failing to meet the Corporate Integrity Agreement obligations could have material adverse consequences for us including monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, in the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be excluded from participation in Federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. Risks related to our financial condition Ineffective management of rapid growth or our inability to grow could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. We have experienced rapid growth. In 1998, we had $186.8 million of premium revenue. In 2008, we had $4.4 billion in premium revenue. This increase represents a compounded annual growth rate of 37.3%. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, we expect to continue to grow rapidly. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to continue to recruit, hire, train and retain a substantial number of new and highly skilled medical, administrative, information technology, finance and other support personnel. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. If we continue to experience rapid growth, our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations, and our management may fail to anticipate adequately all demands that growth will place on our resources. In addition, due to the initial costs incurred upon the acquisition of new businesses, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability. Our inability to manage growth effectively or our inability to grow could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Restrictions and covenants in our credit agreement could limit our ability to take certain actions causing our operational and financial flexibility to be negatively impacted. As of December 31, 2008, we had $44.3 million outstanding under the secured term loan portion of our Credit and Guaranty Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”). As of December 31, 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings 31 Table of Contents under the senior secured revolving credit facility portion of our Credit Agreement, but have caused to be issued irrevocable letters of credit in the aggregate face amount of $16.5 million. The Credit Agreement includes customary covenants and events of default. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the Credit Agreement may be terminated and all amounts owing there under may become immediately due and payable. The Credit Agreement also includes the following financial covenants: (i) maximum leverage ratios as of specified periods, (ii) a minimum interest coverage ratio and (iii) a minimum statutory net worth ratio. The Credit Agreement also imposes acquisition limitations that restrict our ability to make certain acquisitions above specified values. As a result of these restrictions and covenants, our financial and operating flexibility may be negatively impacted. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of our wholly-owned subsidiary, PHP Holdings, Inc., including the stock of each of our respective wholly-owned managed care subsidiaries, in each case, subject to carve-outs. Events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment, could impair our operating performance, which could affect our ability to comply with the terms of the Credit Agreement. Breaching any of the covenants or restrictions could result in the unavailability of the Credit Agreement or a default under the Credit Agreement. We can provide no assurance that our assets or cash flows will be sufficient to fully repay outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement or that we would be able to restructure such indebtedness on terms favorable to us. If we were unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could proceed against the collateral expected to secure the indebtedness. Our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows and our increased leverage as a result of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes and Credit Agreement may harm our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had an outstanding $260.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2012. Our debt service obligation on our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes is approximately $5.2 million per year in interest payments. Our debt service obligations on our Credit Agreement includes interest at the adjusted Eurodollar rate plus 2.0% or the base rate plus 1.0% and annual principal payments equal to 1.0% of the outstanding principal of the term loan. The applicable interest rate was 2.50% at December 31, 2008. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to meet these obligations and must instead use our existing cash or investments, we may have to reduce, curtail or terminate other activities of our business. Additionally, the Credit Agreement includes provisions that may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from cash generated by our operations, if any, and from our existing cash and investments. A substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes. Our capital structure may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a debt service obligation payment, we could be in default of both the Credit Agreement and the 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes. Changes in accounting may affect our results of operations. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to our business could significantly affect our results of operations. 32 Table of Contents For example, in May 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) APB 14-a, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (“FSP APB 14-a”). FSP APB 14-a requires the proceeds from the issuance of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion to be allocated between a liability component and an equity component. The resulting debt discount will be amortized over the period the convertible debt is expected to be outstanding as additional non-cash interest expense. FSP APB 14-a is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and is applied retrospectively to prior periods. FSP APB 14-a will change the accounting treatment for our $260.0 million 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2012, which were issued effective March 28, 2007. The impact of this new accounting treatment will be significant to our results of operations and will result in an increase to non-cash interest expense beginning in fiscal year 2009 for financial statements covering past and future periods. We estimate that as a result of the adoption of FSP APB 14-a our 2007, 2008 and 2009 reported earnings per diluted share will decrease by approximately $0.08, $0.11 and $0.12, respectively. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks that may cause losses and have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, $71.6 million of our investments were comprised of municipal note investments with an auction reset feature (“auction rate securities”). These notes are issued by various state and local municipal entities for the purpose of financing student loans, public projects and other activities. All of these securities carry at least an A credit rating with the majority carrying a AAA credit rating. Liquidity for these auction rate securities historically was provided by an auction process which allowed holders to sell their notes and the interest rate was reset at pre-determined intervals, usually every 28 or 35 days. Since early 2008, auctions for these auction rate securities have failed and there is no assurance that auctions for these securities will succeed in the future. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not be matched with an adequate volume of buyers. In the event that there is a failed auction the indenture governing the security requires the issuer to pay interest at a contractually defined rate. The securities for which auctions have failed will continue to accrue interest at the contractual rate and be auctioned every 28 or 35 days until the auction succeeds, the issuer calls the securities, or they mature. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. As we cannot predict the timing of future successful auctions, if any, auction rate securities have been reclassified to long-term investments as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded a temporary unrealized decline in fair value of approximately $6.4 million, with a corresponding increase to other comprehensive loss of approximately $4.0 million which is net of the related tax benefit for those auction rate securities that we hold as available-for-sale. We currently believe that the temporary decline in fair values is primarily due to liquidity concerns, because the underlying assets for the majority of these securities are student loans supported and guaranteed by the United States Department of Education. In addition, our holdings of auction rate securities represented less than five percent of our total cash, cash equivalent, and investment balance at December 31, 2008, which we believe allows us sufficient time for the securities to return to full value. Because we believe that the current decline in fair value is temporary and based primarily on liquidity issues in the credit markets, any difference between our estimate and an estimate that would be arrived at by another party would have no impact on our earnings, since such difference would also be recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss. We will re-evaluate each of these factors as market conditions change in subsequent periods. If the credit ratings of the issuers of these auction rate securities deteriorate, we may in the future be required to record an additional impairment charge on these investments. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 32 years) to realize our investments’ recorded value. Further, if we are unable to hold these instruments to maturity or other factors occur causing our assessment of impairment to change such that the impairment is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we may be required to record an impairment charge to earnings in future periods which could be significant. 33 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio may suffer losses from reductions in market interest rates and fluctuations in fixed income securities which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, we had total cash and investments of $1.43 billion. Approximately 52% of our investment portfolio was invested in a diversified array of money market funds. Approximately 35% of our portfolio was invested in debt obligations of government sponsored entities, U.S. Treasuries, or FDIC-backed corporate bonds, all of which carried an AAA credit rating. Approximately 4% of our portfolio was invested in investment grade corporate bonds with a weighted average credit rating of AA and approximately 5% of our portfolio is in long-term municipal student loan corporation auction rate securities that carried a weighted average credit rating of AAA. Our investment portfolio generated approximately $50.9 million, $68.7 million and $38.8 million of pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The performance of our portfolio is interest rate driven, and consequently, volatility in interest rates, such as any actions by the Federal Reserve, affects our returns on, and the market value of our portfolio. This factor or any disruptions in the credit markets could materially adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions, and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Our investment portfolio is comprised primarily of investments classified as held-to-maturity. The balance of our portfolio is held in our available-for-sale and trading investment securities. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive loss as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, unless the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such securities until their full cost can be recovered. Trading securities are carried at fair value and any realized gains or losses are included as a component of earnings. For our available-for-sale investments and held-to-maturity investments, if a decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and we do not have the intent and ability to hold such security until its full cost can be recovered, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value and the loss is recorded as an expense. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include, the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of our ability and intent to hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The current economic environment and recent volatility of the securities markets increase the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we did not record any charges for other-than-temporary impairment of our available-for-sale securities. Over time, the economic and market environment may further deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines or losses related to our trading securities to be recorded as an expense. Given the current market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments or trading security losses may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. The availability of credit, from virtually all types of lenders, has been severely restricted. In the event we need access to additional 34 Table of Contents capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, pay capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significant. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. While we have not attempted to access the credit markets recently, we believe that if credit could be obtained, the terms and costs of such credit would be significantly less favorable to us than what was obtained in our most recent financings. Other risks An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and profitability. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various Federal and state laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. We are currently involved in litigation, and may become involved in future litigation, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from our business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, from time to time, we may be subject to additional legal claims. We may suffer an unfavorable outcome as a result of one or more claims, resulting in the depletion of capital to pay defense costs or the costs associated with any resolution of such matters. Depending on the costs of litigation and the amount and timing of any unfavorable resolution of claims against us, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation from time to time due to, among other things, the volatility of our stock price. When the market price of a stock has been volatile, regardless of whether such fluctuations are related to the operating performance of a particular company, holders of that stock have sometimes initiated securities class action litigation against such company. Any class action litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters and medical epidemics could cause our business to suffer. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage health benefits expenses. If an act or acts of terrorism or a natural disaster (such as a major hurricane) or a medical epidemic were to occur in markets in which we operate, our business could suffer. The results of terrorist acts or natural disasters could lead to higher than expected medical costs, network and information technology disruptions, and other related factors beyond our control, which would cause our business to suffer. A widespread epidemic in a market could cause a breakdown in the medical care delivery system which could cause our business to suffer. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents 