risk factors and where the impact of any adverse business and economic factors is expected to be small. Fitch's insurer financial strength ratings range from "AAA (exceptionally strong)" to "D (distressed)." Moody's: "A3 (good)" is the seventh highest designation of Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") twenty-one rating levels. Moody's assigns an "A3 (good)" rating to companies that offer, in its opinion, good financial security, but possess elements that suggest a susceptibility to impairment sometime in the future. Moody's long term insurance financial strength ratings range from "Aaa (exceptional)" to "C (lowest)." Standard & Poor's: "A- (strong)" is seventh highest of twenty-two rating levels. Standard & Poor's assigns an "A- (strong)" rating to companies that have, in its opinion, a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, but are somewhat more susceptible to the adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions than insurers with higher ratings. Standard & Poor's insurer financial strength ratings range from "AAA (extremely strong)" to "R (under regulatory supervision)." The ability to write reinsurance partially depends on an insurer's financial condition and its financial strength ratings. These ratings are based on an insurance company's ability to pay policyholder obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Each of our credit ratings is considered investment grade. Our ability to raise capital for our business and the cost of this capital is influenced by our credit ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. It is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Employees As of February 28, 2006, we employed approximately 369 full time employees, none of whom are unionized. We believe our relations with our employees are good. 13 Regulation General U.S. State Supervision Various state insurance departments enforce insurance and reinsurance regulation. The extent and nature of regulation varies from state to state. Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. is a Delaware-domiciled reinsurer, which is licensed, accredited, approved or authorized to write reinsurance in 50 states and the District of Columbia. Scottish Re Life Corporation is a Delaware-domiciled reinsurer, which is licensed, accredited, approved or authorized to conduct reinsurance in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam and the Federated States of Micronesia. Orkney Re, Inc. is a special purpose financial captive insurance company formed under the laws of South Carolina. Insurance Holding Company Regulation We and our subsidiaries, Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. and Scottish Re Life Corporation, are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws of Delaware. The insurance holding company laws and regulations vary from state to state, but generally require insurers and reinsurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies to register and file with state regulatory authorities certain reports including information concerning their capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations. Generally, all transactions between Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. and/or Scottish Re Life Corporation and their affiliates must be fair and, if material or of a certain kind, require prior notice and approval or non-disapproval by the Delaware state insurance department. Orkney Re, Inc. is not subject to the South Carolina insurance holding company act, but it is required to obtain the approval of the South Carolina Director of Insurance before it may materially amend any agreements to which it is a party, enter into any new agreements or otherwise amend its business plan. State insurance holding company laws typically place limitations on the amounts of dividends or other distributions payable by insurers and reinsurers. State insurance holding company laws also require prior notice or state insurance department approval of changes in control of an insurer or reinsurer or its holding company. The insurance laws of Delaware provide that no person, including a corporation or other legal entity, may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice to such company and obtained prior written approval of the state insurance commissioner. Any purchaser of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance or reinsurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless this presumption is rebutted. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to the state insurance department of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company licensed to transact insurance business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. and Scottish Re Life Corporation or any of their U.S. insurance subsidiaries may require prior notification in the states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification laws. These prior notice and prior approval laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Dividend Restrictions State insurance holding company laws typically place limitations on the amounts of dividends or other distributions payable by insurers and reinsurers. Delaware provides that, unless the prior approval of the state insurance commissioner has been obtained, dividends may be paid only from earned surplus and the maximum annual amount payable is limited to the greater of 10% of policyholder surplus at the end of the prior year or 100% of statutory net gain from operations for the prior year. Orkney Re, Inc. may only pay dividends in accordance with restrictions and guidelines contained in its licensing order issued by the South Carolina Director of Insurance. Any dividends Orkney Re, Inc. pays are subject to the lien of the indenture relating to the long-term debt of its parent entity, Orkney Holdings, LLC. 14 U.S. Reinsurance Regulation Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc., Scottish Re Life Corporation and Orkney Re, Inc. are subject to insurance regulation and supervision that in many respects is similar to the regulation of licensed primary insurers. Generally, state regulatory authorities monitor compliance with, and periodically conduct examinations regarding, state mandated standards of solvency, licensing requirements, investment limitations, restrictions on the size of risks which may be reinsured, deposits of securities for the benefit of reinsureds, methods of accounting, and reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes. However, in contrast with primary insurance policies, which are regulated as to rate, form, and content, the terms and conditions of reinsurance agreements are generally not subject to regulation by state insurance regulators. The ability of any primary insurer to take credit for the reinsurance placed with reinsurers is a significant component of reinsurance regulation. Typically, a primary insurer will only enter into a reinsurance agreement if it can obtain credit on its statutory financial statements for the reinsurance ceded to the reinsurer. Credit is usually granted when the reinsurer is licensed, accredited, approved or authorized to write reinsurance in the state where the primary insurer is domiciled. In addition, many states allow credit for reinsurance ceded to a reinsurer if the reinsurer is licensed in another jurisdiction and meets certain financial requirements, or if the primary insurer is provided with collateral in the form of letters of credit, trusts or funds withheld contracts to secure the reinsurer's obligations. U.S. Reinsurance Regulation of our Non-U.S. Reinsurance Subsidiaries Our non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries also assume reinsurance from primary U.S. insurers. In order for primary U.S. insurers to obtain financial statement credit for the reinsurance obligations of our non-U.S. reinsurers, our non-U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries must satisfy reinsurance requirements. Non-U.S. reinsurers that are not licensed in a state generally may become accredited by filing certain financial information with the relevant state commissioner and maintaining a U.S. trust fund for the payment of valid reinsurance claims. In addition, many states allow credit for reinsurance ceded to unlicensed and unaccredited reinsurers if the primary insurer is provided with collateral in the form of letters of credit, trusts or funds withheld contracts to secure the reinsurer's obligations. U.S. Insurance Regulation of our Non-U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries Our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries that sell wealth management products are not licensed to conduct insurance business in any jurisdiction in the United States. Therefore, they cannot utilize traditional life insurance marketing channels such as agents, nor can they use mail-order or other direct marketing channels to conduct business with persons in the United States or certain other jurisdictions. Accordingly, they rely primarily on referrals by financial advisors, investment managers, private bankers, attorneys and other intermediaries in the United States to generate wealth management business. None of these intermediaries represents us as agent or in any other capacity, nor do they receive any commissions or other remuneration from us for activities undertaken in the United States. In addition, policy solicitation, issuance and servicing must occur outside of the United States. NAIC Ratios The National Association of Insurance Commissioners, which we refer to as the NAIC, has developed a set of financial relationships or tests known as the NAIC Insurance Regulatory Information System to assist state regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies and identifying companies that require special attention or action by insurance regulatory authorities. A second set of confidential ratios, called Financial Analysis Solvency Tracking System, "FAST," is also used for monitoring. Insurance companies generally submit data quarterly to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data using prescribed financial data ratios, each with defined "usual ranges." If an insurance company's results vary significantly from usual ranges, regulators may make further inquiries. Regulators have the authority to impose remedies ranging from increased monitoring to certain business limitations to various degrees of supervision. Our U.S. reinsurance subsidiaries are not currently subject to increased regulatory scrutiny based on our ratios, as computed under these systems. 15 Statutory accounting principles United States Statutory Accounting Principles, or SAP, are a basis of accounting developed by U.S. insurance regulators to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurance companies. In developing SAP, insurance regulators were primarily concerned with assuring an insurer's ability to pay all its current and future obligations to policyholders. As a result, statutory accounting focuses on conservatively valuing the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurer's domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. These accounting principles and related regulations determine, among other things, the amounts our insurance subsidiaries may pay to us as dividends. U.S. GAAP is designed to measure a business on a going-concern basis. It gives consideration to matching of revenue and expenses and, as a result, certain expenses are capitalized when incurred and then amortized over the life of the associated policies. The valuation of assets and liabilities under U.S. GAAP is based in part upon best estimate assumptions made by the insurer. Shareholders' equity represents both amounts currently available and amounts expected to emerge over the life of the business. As a result, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP may be different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. Regulation of investments Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations that require diversification of their investment portfolio and limit the amount of investments in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed maturities, equity real estate, other equity investments and derivatives. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations would cause investments exceeding regulatory limitations to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non-complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurance subsidiaries comply with these laws and regulations. Market conduct regulation The laws and regulations of U.S. jurisdictions include numerous provisions governing the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, complaint handling and claims handling. The regulatory authorities in U.S. jurisdictions generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations. Statutory examinations As part of their regulatory oversight process, insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of insurers domiciled in their jurisdictions. These examinations generally are conducted in co-operation with the insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions, representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. Risk-Based Capital The Risk-Based Capital (RBC) for Insurers Model Act, or the Model Act, as it applies to insurers and reinsurers, was adopted by the NAIC in 1993. The main purpose of the Model Act is to provide a tool for insurance regulators to evaluate the capital of insurers relative to the risks assumed by them and determine whether there is a need for possible corrective action. U.S. insurers and reinsurers are required to report the results of their risk-based capital calculations as part of the statutory annual statements filed with state insurance regulatory authorities. The Model Act provides for four different levels of regulatory actions based on annual statements, each of which may be triggered if an insurer's Total Adjusted Capital, as defined in the Model Act, is less than a corresponding level of risk-based capital, which we call RBC. 16 o The Company Action Level is triggered if an insurer's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 200% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, as defined in the Model Act. At the Company Action Level, the insurer must submit a plan to the regulatory authority that discusses proposed corrective actions to improve its capital position. o The Regulatory Action Level is triggered if an insurer's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 150% of its Authorized Control Level RBC. At the Regulatory Action Level, the regulatory authority will perform a special examination of the insurer and issue an order specifying corrective actions that must be followed. o The Authorized Control Level is triggered if an insurer's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 100% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and at that level the regulatory authority is authorized (although not mandated) to take regulatory control of the insurer. o The Mandatory Control Level is triggered if an insurer's Total Adjusted Capital is less than 70% of its Authorized Control Level RBC, and at that level the regulatory authority must take regulatory control of the insurer. Regulatory control may lead to rehabilitation or liquidation of an insurer. As of December 31, 2005, the risk-based capital of Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. and Scottish Re Life Corporation exceeded minimum RBC levels. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act In November 1999, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, or the GLBA, was enacted, implementing fundamental changes in the regulation of the financial services industry in the United States. The GLBA permits the transformation of the already converging banking, insurance and securities industries by permitting mergers that combine commercial banks, insurers and securities firms under one holding company, a "financial holding company." Bank holding companies and other entities that qualify and elect to be treated as financial holding companies may engage in activities, and acquire companies engaged in activities, that are "financial" in nature or "incidental" or "complementary" to such financial activities. Such financial activities include acting as principal, agent or broker in the underwriting and sale of life, property, casualty and other forms of insurance and annuities. However, although a bank cannot act as an insurer nor can it own an insurer as a subsidiary in most circumstances, a financial holding company can own any kind of insurer, insurance broker or agent. Under the GLBA, national banks retain their existing ability to sell insurance products in some circumstances. Under state law, the financial holding company must apply to the insurance commissioner in the insurer's state of domicile for prior approval of the acquisition of the insurer. Under the GLBA, no state may prevent or restrict affiliations between banks and insurers, insurance agents or brokers. Further, states cannot prevent or significantly interfere with bank or bank subsidiary sales activities. Finally, both bank and bank affiliates can obtain licenses as producers. Until the passage of the GLBA, the Glass-Steagall Act had limited the ability of banks to engage in securities-related businesses, and the Bank Holding Company Act had restricted banks from being affiliated with insurers. With the passage of the GLBA, among other things, bank holding companies may acquire insurers, and insurance holding companies may acquire banks. The ability of banks to affiliate with insurers may materially affect our U.S. reinsurance subsidiary's product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. Bermuda Our Bermuda subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the Bermuda Companies Act of 1981, and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under the Bermuda Insurance Act of 1978, as amended by the Insurance Amendment Act 1995 (which we refer to as the Bermuda Insurance Act), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. They are required, among other things, to meet and maintain certain standards of solvency, 17 to file periodic reports in accordance with Bermuda statutory accounting rules, to produce annual audited financial statements and to maintain a minimum level of statutory capital and surplus. In general, the regulation of insurers in Bermuda relies heavily upon the auditors, directors and managers of the Bermuda insurer, each of which must certify that the insurer meets the solvency and capital requirements of the Bermuda Insurance Act. Under the Bermuda Insurance Act, a Bermuda insurance company carrying on long-term business (which includes the writing of annuity contracts and life insurance policies with respect to human life) must hold all receipts in respect of its long-term business and earnings thereon in a separate long-term business fund. Payments from such long-term business fund may not be made directly or indirectly for any purpose other than those of the insurer's long-term business, except in so far as such payment is made out of surplus certified by the insurer's approved actuary to be available for distribution other than to policyholders. In addition, certain of our Bermuda subsidiaries are authorized by private acts of the Bermuda Legislature (the Scottish Annuity & Life International Insurance Company (Bermuda) Ltd. Consolidation and Amendment Act 2001 and the Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Bermuda) Limited Consolidation and Amendment Act 2001, which we refer to as the private acts) to establish separate accounts in respect of one or more life insurance policies or annuity contracts. In the event of an inconsistency between the Bermuda Insurance Act and our private acts, the terms of the private acts control subject, however, to later amendments of the Bermuda Insurance Act or other relevant laws. Under our private acts, each insurance subsidiary is permitted to credit to relevant separate accounts such portion of the premiums and other receipts from the related policy or contract, and any property of the insurance subsidiary derived from or purchased with such premiums, as the related policies or contracts stipulate. To the extent provided in the relevant policies or contracts, income, interest or other gains earned from, and any property acquired by, investing or dealing in the assets of the separate account are credited to the separate account, and all expenses, fees or losses relating to the separate account are charged against the separate account. The assets and property held in the separate account are to be used for the sole purpose of paying any and all claims arising from or under the related policies or contracts, and no other person has any right or interest in such assets. Upon the termination of policies or contracts related to a separate account, and the discharge of obligations under the policies or contracts, the insurance subsidiary may terminate the separate account, and credit any remaining assets or property to its general account. In the event of insolvency of one of our Bermuda subsidiaries, the liquidator is bound to recognize the separate nature of each separate account, and is not empowered to apply property identified as the property of any one separate account to pay the claims of creditors of the insurance company or policyholders other than the policyholder to whom the separate account relates. The private acts also permit our Bermuda subsidiaries to issue certain securities based on separate accounts that are subject to similar provisions. Cayman Islands Our Cayman Islands subsidiaries are subject to regulation as licensed insurance companies under Cayman Islands law. These subsidiaries hold unrestricted Class B insurance licenses under Cayman Islands Insurance Law and may therefore carry on an insurance business from the Cayman Islands, but may not engage in any Cayman Islands domestic insurance business. Unless specifically exempted, a Cayman Islands insurance company must engage a licensed insurance manager operating in the Cayman Islands to provide insurance expertise and oversight. Our subsidiaries are exempt from this requirement. In addition, under the Cayman Islands Insurance Law, a Cayman Islands insurance company carrying on long-term business (which includes the writing of life insurance policies) must hold all receipts in respect of its long-term business and earnings thereon in a separate long-term business fund. Payments from such long-term business fund may not be made directly or indirectly for any purpose other than those of the insurer's long-term business except in so far as such payments can be made out of any surplus disclosed on an actuarial valuation and certified by an actuary to be distributable otherwise than to policyholders. Every Cayman Islands insurance company carrying on long-term business may establish any number of separate accounts in respect of premiums paid to it to provide (i) annuities on human life and (ii) contracts of insurance on human life, and such respective premiums shall be kept segregated one from the other and independent of all other funds of the Cayman Islands insurer, and, notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law to the contrary, are not chargeable with any liability arising from any other business of the insurer. The scope and the validity of the Cayman Islands law regarding separate accounts have not been tested in the courts of the Cayman Islands. 18 Guernsey World-Wide Insurance PCC Limited is a protected cell company incorporated under the laws of the Island of Guernsey and licensed by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission or GFSC, to carry on international insurance business under the Insurance Business (Bailiwick of Guernsey) Law, 2002. The activities of World-Wide Insurance PCC Limited are supervised by the GFSC. Insurers in Guernsey are required to maintain a minimum margin of solvency and to ensure that they have funds available sufficient to meet a total annual aggregate risk retention together with any forecasted annual expenses. In addition, insurance companies are also required to report annually to the GFSC and must also retain a general representative. The GFSC also has powers to investigate and intervene in the affairs of insurance companies in Guernsey. Ireland Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited is a reinsurance company incorporated under the laws of Ireland. Under Irish law, a reinsurance company such as Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited is required to maintain a minimum level of paid up share capital. As a general matter, neither Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited is subject to the same level of regulation in Ireland as a direct writing insurance company. However, the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority has the power under Section 22 of the Insurance Act, 1989 (as inserted by Section 5 of the Insurance Act, 2000) to direct Irish reinsurance companies to cease writing business indefinitely or for a specified period for, among other grounds, inadequate capitalization, unsuitable directors and/or management or insufficient staff based in Ireland. Section 22A of the Insurance Act, 1989 (as inserted by Section 6 of the Insurance Act, 2000) provides that the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority may create regulations to provide for the application of the general insurance laws and regulations in Ireland to reinsurance companies such as Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited where it considers it necessary to do so, in the public interest, in the interest of policyholders and in the interest of the orderly and proper regulation of the insurance industry. Directive 2005/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Commission dated November 16, 2005 (the "Reinsurance Directive") was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on December 9, 2005. The Reinsurance Directive must be implemented by EU Member States on or before December 10, 2007. It is anticipated that Ireland will implement the Reinsurance Directive during the first quarter of 2006. Once implemented by EU Member States, the Reinsurance Directive will introduce a single passport system for reinsurers similar to that which currently applies to direct insurers. This will mean that EU reinsurers such as our Irish subsidiary, Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited, will be authorized by their home state supervisor and will, on that basis, be entitled to transact business anywhere in the European Union either under the rules of "freedom of establishment" or under the "freedom of services" rules. Some key provisions of the Reinsurance Directive for life reinsurers such as Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited include the following: o EU reinsurers will be required to limit their purposes to the business of reinsurance and related operations. o EU reinsurers will be obliged to establish adequate technical reserves to cover their reinsurance obligations. Additionally, reinsurers will be required to invest the assets covering their technical reserves and their equalization reserves (which are required in the case of credit reinsurers) in accordance with a prescribed set of rules. These rules require a reinsurer to match its investments to its expected claims payments and also require diversity across asset classes and counterparties. Investments in derivatives are permitted only to reduce investment risks or to facilitate efficient portfolio management. In addition, home Member States are permitted to require reinsurers to also comply with the more quantitative rules set out in the Reinsurance Directive provided they are prudentially justified. o EU reinsurers will be obliged to maintain a solvency margin consisting of the assets of the reinsurer "free of any foreseeable liabilities" less any intangible items. Subject to an absolute minimum of EUR 3.0 million, in the case of life reinsurers, the required solvency margin will be based on the higher of a premium basis or a claims basis calculation. In respect of premiums, a ratio of 18% will apply on the first EUR 50.0 million, with 16% applying on the excess. In respect of claims, a ratio of 26% will apply on the average burden of claims determined by reference to a number of preceding financial years up to EUR 35.0 million with 23% applying on the excess. For unit linked 19 business, home Member States may require the solvency margin to be calculated in accordance with the rules set out in the Reinsurance Directive applicable to direct life assurance companies. o One-third of the required solvency margin will constitute a minimum guarantee fund, which must be not less than EUR 3.0 million. o As regards transitional arrangements, the Reinsurance Directive provides that Member States may allow EU reinsurers which are carrying on business at the date of entry into force of the Reinsurance Directive, two years within which to comply with, inter alia, the requirements regarding establishment of technical provisions and reserves and relating to the solvency margin and the guarantee fund described above. However, the Irish Financial Regulator has embarked on a consultation process with industry on grandfathering requirements for existing reinsurers such as Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited and its current thinking suggests that Irish reinsurers would be expected to comply with the requirements of the Reinsurance Directive regarding the establishment of technical provisions within six months of the Reinsurance Directive being transposed into Irish law. Furthermore, it is expected that Irish reinsurers would be required to comply with the solvency margin requirements and the investment rules described above within 12 months of the transposition of the Reinsurance Directive into Irish law. All Irish reinsurers, including Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited, will be required to submit a Reinsurance Grandfathering Compliance Submission to the Irish Financial Regulator showing how they will comply with the new regulatory requirements. If Scottish Re (Dublin) Limited was not already in compliance or was unable to demonstrate that it had a compliance plan acceptable to the Irish Financial Regulator, then it might not be allowed by the Irish Financial Regulator to continue to carry on reinsurance business. United Kingdom Scottish Re Limited is a reinsurance company incorporated and registered in England and Wales and subject to regulation and supervision in the United Kingdom. On December 1, 2001, the United Kingdom's Financial Services Authority, or FSA, assumed its full powers and responsibilities under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, or FSMA. The FSA is now the single statutory regulator responsible for regulating deposit-taking, insurance (including reinsurance), investment and most other financial services business. It is a criminal offense for any person to carry on a regulated activity in the United Kingdom unless that person is authorized by the FSA or falls under an exemption. Scottish Re Limited is authorized to carry on long-term business and certain classes of general business with a requirement that it restricts its business to reinsurance. The FSA has adopted a risk-based approach to the supervision of insurance companies. Under this approach the FSA periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance and reinsurance companies or groups carrying on business in the United Kingdom. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer/reinsurer of its views on the insurer's/reinsurer's risk profile. This will include details of any remedial action that the FSA requires and the likely consequences if this action is not taken. The FSA also supervises the management of insurance and reinsurance companies through the approved persons regime, by which any appointment of persons to perform certain specified "controlled functions" within a regulated entity, must be approved by the FSA. Under FSA rules, insurance and reinsurance companies are required to maintain a margin of solvency at all times, the calculation of which in any particular case depends on the type and amount of business a company writes. The method of calculation of the solvency margin is set out in the FSA rules and, for these purposes, a company's assets and its liabilities are subject to specific valuation rules. Failure to maintain the required solvency margin is one of the grounds on which wide powers of intervention conferred upon the FSA may be exercised. The acquisition of "control" of any U.K. insurance or reinsurance company will require FSA approval. For these purposes, a party that "controls" a U.K. insurance or reinsurance company includes any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in a U.K. authorized insurance or reinsurance company or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power in such authorized insurance or reinsurance company or its parent company. In 20 considering whether to approve an application for approval, the FSA must be satisfied that both the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such "control" and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of "control." Failure to make the relevant prior application could result in action being taken by the FSA against both the person who sought to acquire control and against the regulated company. The Reinsurance Directive has been approved by the United Kingdom and the regulatory authority is expected to take action within the prescribed time period. New Jurisdictions If we or any of our subsidiaries were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction where we or that subsidiary is not presently admitted, they may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could adversely affect our financial results and operations. Additional Information Our website address is www.scottishre.com. Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and all amendments to such reports are available free of charge on our website. These reports are posted to the website as soon as reasonably practical after they have been filed with the SEC. We will also provide electronic or paper copies of these reports on request. Information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves certain risks. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business A downgrade in the financial ratings of our insurance subsidiaries could make us less competitive. Ratings are an important factor in attracting business in our life reinsurance business. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. Although most of the factors considered relate to the rated company, some of the factors take into account general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company's control. The objective of rating organizations is to provide an opinion of an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the relevant rating agency and may be revised downward or withdrawn at the sole discretion of the rating agency. In addition, these ratings are not an evaluation directed to investors in our securities and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. See "Business - Competition and Ratings" for a description of our subsidiaries' ratings. A downgrade in or withdrawal of one or more ratings of any of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect our ability to sell products, retain existing business (through recapture provisions and non-renewal) and compete for attractive acquisition opportunities. Inadequate risk analysis and underwriting may result in a decline in our profits. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess and manage the risks associated with the business that we reinsure. We have developed risk analysis and underwriting guidelines, policies, and procedures with the objective of controlling the quality of the business as well as the pricing of the risks we are assuming. Among other things, these processes rely heavily on our underwriting, our analysis of mortality trends and lapse rates, and our understanding of medical improvements and their impact on mortality. If these processes are inadequate or are based on inadequate information, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may not be adequate to cover our losses. 21 In addition, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by, and information provided to us by, ceding companies. For example, we incurred a charge to net income of $10.4 million in the third quarter of 2003 when we discovered that one of our ceding insurers had underreported death claims to us over a three-year period. We are also subject to the risk that the ceding clients may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. To the extent actual claims exceed our underlying assumptions, we will be required to increase our liabilities, which will reduce our profits in the period in which we identify the deficiency. Reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of what we ultimately expect to pay out on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as persistency, inflation and interest rates. Because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Life reinsurance is a highly competitive industry, which could limit our ability to gain or maintain our competitive position. The life reinsurance industry is highly competitive, and we encounter significant competition from other reinsurance companies, as well as competition from other providers of financial services. Competition in the reinsurance business is based on price, financial strength ratings, reputation, experience, relationships and service. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources and have longer operating histories than we do. Competition from other reinsurers could adversely affect our competitive position. We consider our major competitors in the United States to include Swiss Re, Reinsurance Group of America Inc., Munich American Reassurance Company, Generali USA Life Re, and Transamerica Reinsurance. In other markets outside the United States, our competitors include XL Capital Ltd, Max Reinsurance Ltd. and PartnerRe Ltd. Our life reinsurance contracts and variable life insurance policies expose us to mortality risk which could negatively affect our net income. Mortality risk is the risk that death claims may differ from the amount we assumed in pricing our reinsurance contracts and our variable life insurance policies. Mortality experience that is less favorable than the mortality rates that we assumed will negatively affect our net income. For example, in the second quarter of 2005, we experienced higher than expected mortality, which negatively affected our net income. If our investment strategy is not successful, we could suffer unexpected losses. The success of our investment strategy is crucial to the success of our business. Specifically, we are subject to: o market value risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value. This decrease in value may be due to a change in the yields realized on our assets and prevailing market yields for similar assets, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investment or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuer of the investment; o reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less than expected; and o duration matching risk, which is the risk that liabilities are surrendered or mature sooner than anticipated and that we may have to sell assets at an undesirable time to provide for policyholder surrenders or withdrawals. We attempt to address such risks in product pricing and in establishing policy reserves. If our assets do not properly match our anticipated liabilities or our investments do not provide sufficient returns to enable us to satisfy our guaranteed fixed benefit obligations then our profits and financial condition would deteriorate. Also, declines in 22 the value of our investments that provide collateral for reinsurance contracts would require us to post additional collateral. In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities, known as MBSs, and collateralized mortgage obligations, known as CMOs. As of December 31, 2005, MBSs and CMOs constituted approximately 16.4% of our invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities will fluctuate depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and MBSs and CMOs are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. We may also enter into foreign currency, interest rate and credit derivatives and other hedging transactions in an effort to manage risks. Structuring these derivatives and hedges so as to effectively manage these risks is an inherently uncertain process. If our calculations are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our derivatives or hedges, we may have unexpected losses and our assets may not be adequate to meet our needed reserves, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. General economic conditions affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets. Unexpected changes in general economic conditions could create volatility or illiquidity in these markets in which we hold positions and harm our investment return. Our strategy includes growth through acquisitions. Our inability to grow through acquisitions or to successfully integrate acquired companies or blocks of business may negatively affect our results of operations. Much of our growth, particularly in 2005, has been fueled by acquisitions. Our ability to grow through acquisitions depends, among other things, on our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates. We have completed three major acquisitions since 2001, including the acquisition of the in-force individual life reinsurance business of ING on December 31, 2004, and we may make future acquisitions, either of companies or other selected blocks of business. While we will evaluate business opportunities on a regular basis, we may not be successful in identifying any attractive acquisitions. We may not have, or be able to raise on acceptable terms, sufficient financial resources to make acquisitions. In addition, any acquisition we make is subject to all of the risks inherent in an acquisition strategy, including: o integrating the acquired financial and operational systems; o establishing satisfactory budgetary and other financial and accounting controls; o funding increased capital needs and overhead expenses; o obtaining management personnel required for expanded operations; o funding cash flow shortages that may occur if anticipated sales and revenues are not realized or are delayed, whether by general economic or market conditions or unforeseen internal difficulties; and o the value of assets acquired may be lower than expected or may diminish due to credit defaults or changes in interest rates and liabilities assumed may be greater than expected. Our failure to manage successfully these operational challenges and risks may impact our results of operations. In addition, disputes can arise over the terms of any acquisition. For example, in connection with the acquisition of Scottish Re Life Corporation, formerly ERC Life Reinsurance Corporation, we are currently in mediation with the seller over the representations made to us at the time of sale. Also, growth by acquisition may divert a substantial amount of management time that would otherwise be devoted to our operations. We may not be able to grow as quickly as we have in the past. To the extent that consolidation of the domestic life reinsurance industry leads to an improved pricing environment for reinsurers, such pricing increases may be offset by larger retentions and the amount of risk our 23 clients retain. While international markets in Europe and Asia may offer better long-term prospects for growth, the timing of the growth is uncertain and is not likely to offset any slow-down in the domestic life reinsurance industry. In certain reinsurance contracts we do not maintain control of the invested assets, which may limit our ability to control investment risks on these assets and may expose us to credit risk of the ceding company. As part of our business we enter into reinsurance agreements on a modified coinsurance and funds withheld coinsurance basis. In these transactions, the ceding insurance company retains the assets supporting the ceded business and manages them for our account. As of December 31, 2005, $2.6 billion of assets were held by ceding companies under such agreements and were recorded under "funds withheld at interest" on our balance sheet. Although the ceding company must adhere to general standards agreed to by us for the management of these assets, we do not control the selection of the specific investments or the timing of the purchase or sale of investments made by the ceding company. Accordingly, we may be at risk if the ceding company selects investments that deviate from our agreed standards or if the ceding company performs poorly in the purchase, sale and management of those assets. In addition, these assets are not segregated from the ceding company's other assets, and we may not be able to recover all of these assets in the event of the insolvency of the ceding insurer. In certain other reinsurance arrangements, we may place assets in a trust in order to provide the ceding company with credit for reinsurance on its financial statements. Although we generally have the right to direct the investment of assets in these trusts, in the event of the insolvency of the ceding company, its receiver may attempt to take control of those assets. Interest rate fluctuations could lower the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and interest we pay under our reinsurance contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not earning income or experiencing losses based on the difference between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited interest rates paid on outstanding reinsurance contracts. Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities will likely bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure life insurance policies or annuities with cash value components. A majority of our annuity and certain other products have multi-year guarantees and guaranteed floors on their crediting rates. During periods of rising interest rates, we may be contractually obligated to increase the crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure annuities or life insurance policies with cash value components. We may not, however, have the ability to immediately acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset the increased crediting rates under our reinsurance contracts. Although we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, significant changes in interest rates caused by factors beyond our control such as changes in governmental monetary policy or political conditions may negatively affect our interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain insurance and investment products of our customers, which would reduce the demand for our reinsurance of these products. A prolonged economic downturn could reduce the demand for annuity and life insurance products, which could substantially reduce our revenues. A prolonged general economic downturn or poor performance of the equity and other capital markets, could lower the demand for many annuity and life insurance products. Because we obtain substantially all of our revenues through reinsurance arrangements that cover a portfolio of life insurance products, as well as annuities, our business would be harmed if the demand for annuities or life insurance decreased. 24 Policyholder withdrawals or recaptures of reinsurance treaties could force us to sell investments at a loss and take a larger than anticipated charge for amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Some of the products offered by our insurance subsidiaries and some of the products offered by primary insurance companies that we reinsure allow policyholders and contract holders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. In addition, our reinsurance agreements may provide for recapture rights on the part of our insurance company customers. Recapture rights permit these customers to reassume all or a portion of the risk formerly ceded to us after an agreed upon time, usually 10 years, subject to various conditions or upon a downgrade of any of our financial strength ratings or our failure to satisfy other financial conditions. Recapture of business previously ceded does not affect premiums ceded prior to the recapture, but may result in immediate payments to our insurance company customers. In addition, when we issue a new insurance policy or annuity contract or write a reinsurance contract, we defer a portion of the related acquisition costs by establishing a deferred acquisition cost asset on the balance sheet. This asset is amortized over the expected term of the acquired business based on certain assumptions about the performance and persistency of that business and investment experience. To the extent surrender, withdrawal or recapture activity is greater than we assumed, or investment experience is worse than we assumed, we may incur a non-cash charge to write down the deferred acquisition cost asset. Any such charge may be partially offset by recapture and surrender fees. One of our customers exercised a right of recapture in April 2001, requiring us to pay $185.7 million to the customer. Because we had expected the recapture, we did not have to dispose of assets at a loss and we had already fully amortized the deferred acquisition costs. In December 2002, another of our customers exercised a right of recapture requiring us to pay $49.3 million to the customer. In that case, we did not have to dispose of assets at a loss and we recovered all of our unamortized deferred acquisition costs relating to the transaction. However, because recapture rights can be triggered by circumstances, which may be unforeseeable, such as rating decreases or production shortfalls, we may not be able to anticipate future recaptures and make adequate preparations to reduce their impact on us. If recaptures occur and we do not make adequate preparations, our earnings and financial condition could decline. With regard to our business generally, the outcome of current industry investigations may have an adverse impact. The attorneys general and the insurance departments of New York and numerous other states have announced investigations of insurance broker compensation arrangements, bid-rigging and other practices within the insurance industry, and may propose changes in the regulation of broker compensation arrangements and disclosure. Some regulators have also announced investigations into proper uses of finite reinsurance. We received a letter of inquiry from the Delaware Department of Insurance in November 2004 as part of its review of Delaware domestic insurance companies and their arrangements and dealings with producers acting as brokers to which we responded in November 2004. We have not been contacted by any other government agency (including through receipt of a subpoena) in connection with these investigations. It is impossible to predict the outcomes of these investigations, whether they will expand into other industry practices not yet contemplated, whether they will result in changes in insurance regulation or practices, or the impact, if any, of this increased regulatory scrutiny of the insurance industry on us or on the liquidity or trading prices of our ordinary shares. Government subpoenas we have received may create negative publicity and the risk of regulatory action. We have received separate subpoenas from the staff of the SEC and the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations of the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs ("PSI"). The SEC subpoena seeks documents and other information regarding transactions and trading involving Scottish Re securities by certain former officers and directors of Scottish Re (each of whom left those positions by mid-year 2001), by certain original shareholders of Scottish Re, and by our current Chairman. The PSI subpoena is in connection with the PSI's general review of compliance with anti-money laundering, tax and securities laws and regulations related to financial transactions by individuals and domestic and offshore entities. The PSI subpoena seeks documents regarding the formation of Scottish Re, certain wealth management products and transactions involving the individuals mentioned above. We are fully cooperating with these inquiries. While it is premature for 25 us to assess the scope or any potential outcome to us of these inquiries, including any potential enforcement actions involving us, these inquiries may result in negative publicity and could have an adverse affect on us. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies who may not pay amounts due to us, which could materially harm our business. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies, known as retrocessionaires. We assume the risk that the retrocessionaire will be unable to pay amounts due to us because of its own financial difficulties. The failure of our retrocessionaires to pay amounts due to us will not absolve us of our responsibility to pay ceding companies for risks that we reinsure. Failure of retrocessionaires to pay us could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters, catastrophes and disasters caused by humans, including the threat of terrorist attacks and related events, epidemics, and pandemics may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as epidemics and pandemics, can adversely affect our business and results of operations because they accelerate mortality risk. Terrorist attacks in the United States and in other parts of the world and the threat of future attacks could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our reinsurance programs are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses for individual life claims relating to potential future natural disasters and terrorist attacks. Our reinsurance programs, including our catastrophe coverage, limited our net losses in individual life claims relating to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks to approximately $750,000. However, the consequences of further natural disasters, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, epidemics and pandemics are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Our international operations subject us to regulatory, foreign currency, and other risks which may affect our business. In 2005, approximately 6% of our earned premiums came from our international operations. Our plan to grow our international operations subjects us to various risks. In addition to the regulatory and foreign currency risks we identify later in this section, these risks include: o volatility in earnings arising out of mortality swings in the initial years of operating in new markets; o political and economic instability as well as armed conflict in these regions; and o uncertainty arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees or the loss of any of our key employees could negatively impact our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of Scott E. Willkomm, our Chief Executive Officer, Paul Goldean, our General Counsel, David Huntley, the Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Re Limited, Hugh McCormick, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Development, Dean E. Miller, our Chief Financial Officer, Seth Vance, the Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Holdings, Inc., and Clifford J. Wagner, our Chief Actuary. Each of the foregoing members of senior management has employment agreements and we maintain $2,500,000 key man life insurance policies for each of Mr. Willkomm and Mr. Wagner. The loss of the services of members of our senior management, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel from the very limited pool of qualified insurance professionals, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy which could harm our financial performance. 26 We are exposed to foreign currency risk which could negatively affect our business. Our functional currency is the United States dollar. However, our U.K. subsidiaries, Scottish Re Holdings Limited and Scottish Re Limited, maintain operating expense accounts in British pounds, parts of their investment portfolio in Euros and British pounds and receive other currencies in payment of premiums. All of Scottish Re Limited's original U.S. business is settled in United States dollars, all Canadian, Latin American and certain Asia and Middle East business is converted and settled in United States dollars, and all other currencies are converted and settled in either Euros or British pounds. The results of the business recorded in Euros or British pounds are then translated to United States dollars. Scottish Re Limited attempts to limit substantial exposures to foreign currency risk, but does not actively manage currency risks. To the extent our foreign currency exposure is not properly managed or otherwise hedged, we may experience exchange losses, which in turn would lower our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated, and changes in these regulations could harm our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include trade and claim practices, accounting methods, premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, acceptability of collateral for purposes of taking credit for reinsurance, policy forms, affiliate transactions, changes of control and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things: o establish solvency requirements, including minimum reserves and capital and surplus requirements; o limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, intercompany loans and other payments our insurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval; o impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold; and o require assessments to pay claims of insolvent insurance companies. The NAIC continuously examines existing laws and regulations. We cannot predict the effect that any NAIC recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule making in the United States or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. If Scottish Re or any of our subsidiaries were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction where Scottish Re or that subsidiary is not presently admitted, they may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could harm our financial results and operations. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our subsidiaries' ability to distribute funds to us. We are a holding company, with our principal assets consisting of the stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, HyCUs, our non-cumulative perpetual preferred shares, and to pay debt service on any of our indebtedness, depends significantly on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries, our principal sources of cash flow, to declare and distribute dividends or to advance money to us in the form of intercompany loans. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to various state and foreign government statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance companies generally that limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances and other payments to affiliates. If insurance regulators at any time determine that payment of a dividend or any other payment to an affiliate would be detrimental to an insurance subsidiary's policyholders or creditors, because of the financial condition of the insurance subsidiary or otherwise, the regulators may block dividends or other payments to affiliates that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. 27 Our ordinary shares are subject to voting and transfer limitations. Under our articles of association, our board of directors (or its designee) is required, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, to decline to register any transfer of ordinary shares if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares, except that Cypress Merchant B Partners II (Cayman) L.P., Cypress Merchant Banking II-A C.V., 55th Street Partners II (Cayman) L.P. and Cypress Side-by-Side (Cayman) L.P. (collectively, the "Cypress Entities") are each permitted to transfer ordinary shares to another Cypress Entity, so long as the number of ordinary shares beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Cypress Entities in the aggregate does not exceed 24.9% of a class of our shares. With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares (24.9% in the case of the Cypress Entities), the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. Similar restrictions apply to issuances and repurchases of ordinary shares by us. Our directors (or their designee) also may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any ordinary shares, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if they have reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction or if they have reason to believe that registration of such transfer under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, under any state "blue sky" or other U.S. securities laws or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and such registration has not been duly effected. With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction, the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. A transferor of ordinary shares will be deemed to own such shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such ordinary shares has been registered on our register of members. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of ordinary shares as necessary to effect registration of any such transaction, and may decline to register any such transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our articles of association generally provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) other than the Cypress Entities, holding directly, or by attribution, or otherwise beneficially owning our voting shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding voting shares, will have the voting rights attached to its voting shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than approximately 9.9% of such total voting rights. In addition, in the event the Cypress Entities hold directly or by attribution or otherwise beneficially own voting shares with more than 24.9% of the total voting rights of our voting shares, the voting rights of the Cypress Entities will be reduced so that they may not exercise in the aggregate more than approximately 24.9% of the total voting rights of our voting shares at any given time. Because of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds of record 10% or more of our voting shares. Further, our board of directors (or its designee) has the authority to request from any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether such shareholder's voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives our board of directors (or its designee) discretion to disregard all votes attached to such shareholder's ordinary shares. 28 On April 7, 2005, our shareholders approved amendments to our articles of association permitting certain affiliates of The Cypress Group to own up to 24.9% of our ordinary shares and the issuance of ordinary shares to the Cypress Entities upon the conversion of the 7% Convertible Junior Subordinated Notes. On May 4, 2005, the Cypress Entities obtained insurance regulatory approval in Delaware and the United Kingdom to hold more than 10% of our outstanding shares. The Cypress Entities, at December 31, 2005, hold approximately 17.5% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Our articles of association make it difficult to replace directors and to effect a change of control. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that make it more difficult for the shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions may make more difficult the acquisition of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, a proxy fight or otherwise, including by reason of the limitation on transfers of ordinary shares and voting rights described above. While these provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control to negotiate with our board of directors, they could have the effect of discouraging a prospective purchaser from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control and may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Examples of provisions in our articles of association that could have such an effect include: o election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; o the total voting power of any shareholder owning 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to our ordinary shares will be reduced to approximately 9.9% of the total voting rights of our ordinary shares; o our directors must decline to register the transfer of ordinary shares on our share register that would result in a person owning 10% or more of any class of our shares and may decline certain transfers that they believe may have adverse tax or regulatory consequences; o shareholders do not have the right to act by written consent; and o our directors have the ability to change the size of the board of directors. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. The Cypress Entities currently own approximately 17.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Pursuant to a shareholders' agreement, as long as the Cypress Entities continue to hold the lesser of (i) 9.9% or more of the voting power of our voting securities on an as-converted basis or (ii) 35% or more of the securities purchased on an as-converted basis, the Cypress Entities have the non-assignable right to appoint one director and one non-voting observer to our board of directors. The Cypress Entities' share ownership and ability to nominate persons for election to the board of directors might provide the Cypress Entities with significant influence over potential change in control transactions. Applicable insurance laws make it difficult to effect a change of control. Under applicable Delaware insurance laws and regulations, no person may acquire control of us, Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. or Scottish Re Life Corporation Limited, our Delaware insurance subsidiaries, unless that person has filed a statement containing specified information with the Delaware Insurance Commissioner and approval for such acquisition is obtained. Under applicable laws and regulations, any person acquiring, directly by stock ownership or indirectly (by revocable proxy or otherwise), 10% or more of the voting stock of any other person is presumed to have acquired control of such person, and a person who beneficially acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares without obtaining the approval of the Delaware Insurance Commissioner would be in violation of Delaware's insurance holding company act and would be subject to injunctive action requiring disposition or seizure of the shares and prohibiting the voting of such shares, as well as other action determined by the Delaware Insurance Commissioner. In addition, because of our ownership of Orkney Re, Inc., our South Carolina special purpose reinsurance captive, any person acquiring control of Orkney Re, Inc., directly or indirectly through acquiring control of us, would be required to obtain approvals from the South Carolina Director of Insurance. 29 In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to the state insurance department of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company licensed to transact insurance in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of us, Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. or Scottish Re Life Corporation Limited may require prior notification in the states that have pre-acquisition notification laws. These prior notice and prior approval laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Any change in control of Scottish Re Limited would need the approval of the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is the body responsible for the regulation and supervision of the U.K. insurance and reinsurance industry. Investors may have difficulties in suing or enforcing judgments against us in the United States. We are a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands with its principal executive office in Bermuda. Certain of our directors and officers are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and those of such directors and officers, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have irrevocably agreed that we may be served with process in New York, New York with respect to actions arising out of or in connection with violations of United States Federal securities laws relating to offers and sales of ordinary shares made hereby, it could be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to recover against us or such directors and officers on judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. The market price for our ordinary shares may be highly volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares has fluctuated, ranging between $21.68 and $26.02 per share for the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2005. The overall market and the price of our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant effect on the market price for our ordinary shares due to, among other things: - changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business, - the size of the public float of our ordinary shares; - the announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors; - variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors; - regulatory developments; - market conditions; and - general economic conditions. Limited trading volume of our ordinary shares may contribute to its price volatility. Our ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, the average daily trading volume for our ordinary shares as reported by the NYSE was 245,504 shares. As a result, relatively small trades may have a significant effect on the price of our ordinary shares. 30 Risks Related to Taxation If we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is determined to be conducting business in the United States, we could be liable for U.S. federal income taxes which could negatively affect our net income. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands with our principal executive office in Bermuda. We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries believe they have operated and intend to continue operating in a manner such that neither we nor any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries should be treated as engaging in a trade or business in the United States and thus should not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on net income. Because there are no definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions there is considerable uncertainty as to which activities constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and as the determination is essentially factual in nature, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could contend that Scottish Re or one or more of its non-U.S. subsidiaries, is engaged in a trade or business in the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and thus may be subject to U.S. federal income tax and "branch profits" tax on net income. The highest marginal federal income tax rates currently are 35% for a corporation's income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business and 30% for the "branch profits" tax unless the "branch profits" tax is reduced by an applicable income tax treaty. If we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is treated as a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company or if any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries generate more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income, U.S. persons who own our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation on our undistributed earnings and may recognize ordinary income upon disposition of our shares. We believe that we were not a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company, nor have we generated an impermissible amount of related person insurance income for the year ended December 31, 2005. Although no assurances can be given, based upon (i) our current beliefs with respect to the dispersion of our share ownership and (ii) our financial information for the period ending December 31, 2005, we do not expect to be a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company or to generate an impermissible amount of related person insurance income for the current year or in the future but we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the preceding facts are beyond our control. Our shareholders who are U.S. persons may be required to include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes our undistributed earnings if we are treated as a controlled foreign corporation or a passive foreign investment company or if we have generated more than a permissible amount of related person insurance income. In addition, in certain cases gain on the disposition of our ordinary shares may be treated as ordinary income. Controlled Foreign Corporation. Each U.S. 10% holder of a controlled foreign corporation on the last day of the controlled foreign corporation's taxable year generally must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such shareholder's pro-rata share of the controlled foreign corporation's subpart F income, even if the subpart F income has not been distributed. For purposes of this discussion, the term "U.S. 10% holder" includes only persons who, directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities (or through the application of certain "constructive" ownership rules, which we refer to as constructively), own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the foreign corporation. In general, a non-U.S. company is treated as a controlled foreign corporation if such U.S. 10% holders collectively own more than 50% of the total combined voting power or value of our stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year and a non-U.S. insurance company is treated as a controlled foreign corporation if such U.S. 10% holders collectively own more than 25% of the total combined voting power or value of our stock for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during any year. At the present time, our largest aggregate shareholder, the Cypress Entities, owns collectively approximately 17.5% of our ordinary shares. In order to lessen the risk that Scottish Re or any of its non-U.S. subsidiaries could be characterized as a controlled foreign corporation, our articles of association prohibit the ownership by any person of shares that would equal or exceed 10% (or in the case of the Cypress Entities that would exceed 24.9%) of any class of the issued and outstanding Scottish Re shares and provide a "voting cutback" that would, in certain circumstances, reduce the voting power with respect to Scottish Re shares to the extent necessary to prevent the Cypress Entities from owning more than 24.9% of the voting power of Scottish Re, and any other person owning more than 9.9% of the voting power of Scottish Re. We believe, although not free from doubt, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, that the dispersion of our share ownership (other than with respect to the Cypress Entities) and the provisions of our articles of association 31 restricting the transfer, issuance and voting power of our shares should prevent any person (other than certain potential U.S. affiliates of the Cypress Entities) from becoming a U.S. 10% holder of Scottish Re; however, we cannot be certain of this belief because of factual uncertainties and some of these provisions have not been directly passed on by the IRS, or by any court, in this context. If, however, one or more U.S. persons owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of our voting stock were to acquire separately or in the aggregate 25% of the vote or value of the stock of Scottish Re, our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries would be treated as controlled foreign corporations. In addition, Scottish Re and its other (non-insurance) non-U.S. subsidiaries would be characterized as controlled foreign corporations if such U.S. persons were to acquire more than 50% of the vote or value of the stock of Scottish Re. In either case, any such U.S. 10% holder would be required to include in gross income its pro-rata share of subpart F income of Scottish Re and/or its non-U.S. subsidiaries. Related Person Insurance Income. If (i) any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries' related person insurance income, or RPII, determined on a gross basis were to equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year, (ii) direct or indirect insureds and persons related to such insureds were to own directly or indirectly 20% or more of the voting power or value of Scottish Re's stock or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries' stock, and (iii) U.S. persons (without regard to whether any U.S. person is a U.S. 10% holder) directly, indirectly or constructively own collectively by voting power or value 25% or more of our aggregate shares (taking into account the relative vote and value of different classes of shares), such U.S. persons who directly or indirectly own our shares on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the U.S. person's pro-rata share of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries' RPII for the portion of the taxable year during, which any such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary was a controlled foreign corporation under the RPII provisions determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to U.S. persons at that date, taking into account any differences existing with respect to the distribution rights applicable to different classes of shares. Related person insurance income is generally underwriting premium and related investment income attributable to insurance or reinsurance policies when the direct or indirect insureds are direct or indirect U.S. shareholders or are related to such direct or indirect U.S. shareholders. At present, we believe that our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries should satisfy the 20% RPII ownership exception described herein because the direct or indirect ownership of the shares of Scottish Re or any of its non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries by any shareholders that are direct or indirect insureds of any of Scottish Re's non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries (or any person related to such insureds) should be less than 20% of the voting power or value of Scottish Re or any of its non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Even if the 20% RPII ownership exception described above is not met, although no assurances can be given, we do not believe that the 20% gross insurance income threshold has been met and we do not expect such threshold to be met in the future but we cannot be certain of the preceding belief because certain of the preceding facts are beyond our control. If we are characterized as a controlled foreign corporation under the RPII provisions, U.S. persons who directly or indirectly own our shares on the last day of such taxable year would be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the U.S. person's pro-rata share of the relevant non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries' RPII for the portion of the taxable year during which any such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary was a controlled foreign corporation under the RPII provisions determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately to such U.S. person at that date, taking into account any differences existing with respect to the distribution rights applicable to different classes of shares. Dispositions of Our Shares. If we are considered to be a controlled foreign corporation, any gain from the sale or exchange of our shares by a U.S. 10% holder of our shares may be treated as ordinary income to the extent of our earnings and profits during the period that such shareholder held our ordinary shares (with certain adjustments). If we are considered to have RPII and U.S. persons (without regard to whether any U.S. person is a U.S. 10% holder) collectively own directly, indirectly or constructively 25% or more of the voting power or value of our aggregate shares (taking into account the relative vote and value of different classes of shares), any gain from the disposition of our shares by a U.S. holder will generally be treated as income to the extent of such U.S. holder's portion of our undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the U.S. holder owned the shares (with certain adjustments). In addition, such U.S. holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned directly or indirectly. However, because Scottish Re is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business 32 and because proposed U.S. Treasury regulations applicable to this situation appear to apply only to sales of shares of corporations that are directly engaged in the insurance business, we do not believe that sale of our shares should be subject to these rules. The IRS, however, could interpret the proposed regulations, or the proposed regulations could be promulgated in final form, in a manner that would cause these rules to apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares. Passive Foreign Investment Company. In order to avoid significant potential adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for any U.S. person who owns our shares, we cannot be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, in any year in which such U.S. person is a shareholder. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. Passive income does not, however, include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. Although we believe that Scottish Re and its non-U.S. subsidiaries, taken as a whole, are engaged predominantly in insurance and reinsurance activities that involve significant risk transfer and that are otherwise activities of a type normally undertaken by insurance or reinsurance companies, and do not expect to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of their insurance businesses, it is possible that the IRS could take the position that we are a PFIC. Although we do not believe that we are or will be a PFIC, the IRS or a court could concur that we are a PFIC with respect to any given year. If we are a controlled foreign corporation or if any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries generate RPII, U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either we are a controlled foreign corporation and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% holder or there is RPII and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons should be allocated subpart F insurance income, potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. While there are no currently pending legislative proposals which, if enacted, would have a material adverse effect on us or our shareholders, it is possible that broader-based legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could have an adverse impact on us, or our shareholders. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the RPII of a controlled foreign corporation are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. Future transactions may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2005, we had actual net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, of approximately $615.5 million. $603.1 million is attributable to the U.S. operations and $12.4 million is attributable to the U.K. operations. The U.K. net operating loss has an unlimited carryforward period. The U.S. NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Code, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" to use its NOLs to reduce its tax liability. It is possible that future transactions (including issuances of new shares and sales of our shares), would cause us to undergo an ownership change. In that event, we would not be able to use our pre-ownership-change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by Section 382. 33 If we do not receive further undertakings from the Cayman Islands, we may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands in the future. Scottish Re and our Cayman Islands subsidiaries, Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd. and The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., have received undertakings from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended (1999 Revision), that until the year 2028 with respect to Scottish Re and Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd., and until the year 2024 with respect to The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., (1) no subsequently enacted Cayman Islands law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries and (2) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any shares, debentures or other obligations of Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries. We could be subject to Cayman Islands taxes after the applicable dates. If Bermuda law changes, we may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future. Bermuda currently imposes no income tax on corporations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has assured us that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries until March 28, 2016. Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries could be subject to Bermuda taxes after that date. The impact of letters of commitment from Bermuda and the Cayman Islands to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices may impact us negatively. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD's report dated April 18, 2002, and updated as of June 2004 and November 2005 via a "Global Forum", Bermuda and the Cayman Islands were not listed as uncooperative tax haven jurisdictions because each had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 