Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Risks related to our business Our inability to manage medical costs effectively could reduce our profitability. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage medical costs. Changes in healthcare regulations and practices, level of use of healthcare services, hospital costs, pharmaceutical costs, major epidemics, pandemics, such as the H1N1 virus in 2009, new medical technologies and other external factors, including general economic conditions such as inflation levels or natural disasters, are beyond our control and could reduce our ability to predict and effectively control the costs of healthcare services. Although we attempt to manage medical costs through a variety of techniques, including various payment methods to PCPs and other providers, advance approval for hospital services and referral requirements, medical management and quality management programs, and our information systems and reinsurance arrangements, we may not be able to manage costs effectively in the future. In addition, new products or new markets, such as our expansion in Fort Worth, Texas to offer managed care services to ABD members in 2011 and our further planned expansion into Louisiana, Washington and in Texas, among others, in 2012, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively manage medical costs. It is possible that there could be an increase in the volume or value of appeals for claims previously denied and claims previously paid to out-of-network providers could be appealed and subsequently reprocessed at higher amounts. This would result in an adjustment to health benefits expense. If our costs for medical services increase, our profits could be reduced, or we may not remain profitable. We maintain reinsurance to help protect us against individually severe or catastrophic medical claims, but we can provide no assurance that such reinsurance coverage will be adequate or available to us in the future or that the cost of such reinsurance will not limit our ability to obtain appropriate levels of coverage. Our limited ability to accurately predict our incurred but not reported medical expenses has in the past and could in the future materially impact our reported results. Our health benefits expense includes estimates of the cost of claims for services rendered to our members that are yet to be received, or incurred but not reported (“IBNR”), including claims that have been received but not yet processed through our claims system. We estimate our IBNR health benefits expense based on a number of factors, including authorization data, prior claims experience, maturity of markets, complexity and mix of products and stability of provider networks. Adjustments, if necessary, are made to health benefits expense in the period during which the actual claim costs are ultimately determined or when underlying assumptions or factors used to estimate IBNR change. We cannot be sure that our current or future IBNR estimates are adequate or that any further adjustments to such IBNR estimates will not significantly harm or benefit our results of operations. Further, our inability to accurately estimate IBNR may also affect our ability to take timely corrective actions, further exacerbating the extent of the impact on our results of operations. Though we employ substantial efforts to estimate our IBNR at each reporting date, we can give no assurance that the ultimate results will not materially differ from our estimates resulting in a material increase or decrease in our health benefits expense in the period such difference is determined. New products or new markets, such as our recent and planned expansions in the Louisiana, Washington and Texas markets, significant volatility in membership enrollment and healthcare service utilization patterns, or significant changes in the speed at which claims are paid or the accuracy of claims processing, could pose new and unexpected challenges to effectively predict health benefits expense. We derive a majority of our premium revenues and net income from a small number of states, in particular, the state of Texas, and if we fail to retain our contracts in those states, or if the conditions in those states change, our business and results of operations may suffer. We earn substantially all of our revenues by serving members who receive healthcare benefits through contracts with government agencies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. For the year ended December 31, 28 Table of Contents 2011, our Texas contract represented approximately 22% of our premium revenues and our Tennessee, Georgia and Maryland contracts represented approximately 14%, 12% and 11% of our premium revenues, respectively. Our reliance on operations in a limited number of states could cause our revenue and profitability to change suddenly and unexpectedly as a result of significant premium rate reductions, a loss or modification of a material contract, legislative actions, changes in Medicaid eligibility methodologies, catastrophic claims, an epidemic or pandemic, or an unexpected increase in medical service utilization, general economic conditions and similar factors in those states. Our inability to continue to operate in any of the states in which we currently operate, or a significant change in the nature of our existing operations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Some of our contracts are subject to a re-bidding or re-application process. For example, the Georgia Department of Community Health (“GA DCH”) expects to begin reprocurement of its entire managed care program in the state of Georgia in 2012. If we lost a contract through the re-bidding process, or if an increased number of competitors were awarded contracts in a specific market, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in the number of Medicaid eligible beneficiaries, or benefits provided to Medicaid eligible beneficiaries or a change in mix of Medicaid eligible beneficiaries could cause our operating results to suffer. Historically, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits has increased during periods of rising unemployment, corresponding to less favorable general economic conditions. This pattern has been consistent with our experience of significant membership growth during the recession that occurred during the past few years. However, during such economic downturns, available state budget dollars can and have decreased, causing states to attempt to cut healthcare programs, benefits and premium rates. If this were to happen while our membership was increasing, our results of operations could suffer. Macroeconomic conditions in recent years have resulted in such budget challenges in the states in which we operate, placing pressures on the premium rate-setting process. Conversely, the number of persons eligible to receive Medicaid benefits may grow more slowly or even decline as economic conditions improve, thereby causing our operating results to suffer. In either case, in the event that the Company experiences a change in product mix to less profitable product lines or the membership we serve becomes less profitable due to decreases in premium rates, our profitability could be negatively impacted. Receipt of inadequate or significantly delayed premiums could negatively impact our revenues, profitability and cash flows. Most of our revenues are generated by premiums consisting of fixed monthly payments per member. These premiums are fixed by contract and we are obligated during the contract period to facilitate access to healthcare services as established by the state governments. We have less control over costs related to the provision of healthcare services than we do over our selling, general and administrative expenses. Historically, our reported expenses related to health benefits as a percentage of premium revenue have fluctuated. For example, our expenses related to health benefits were 83.7%, 81.6% and 85.4% of our premium revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. If health benefits expense increases at a higher rate than premium increases, our results of operations would be impacted negatively. In addition, if there is a significant delay in premium rate increases provided by states to offset increasing health benefits expense, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. Premiums are generally contractually payable to us before or during the month for which we are obligated to provide services to our members. Our cash flow is negatively impacted if premium payments are not made according to contract terms. Despite any delays in premium payments, our contracts require that we pay claims for medical services within certain time frames which would require that we remit payments to providers for services in advance of receipts from the government agencies if such receipts are delayed. In general, we believe we will be able to collect any delayed premiums; however, if these delays occur in a significant market for an 29 Table of Contents extended period of time or in more than one market that in the aggregate are significant to our consolidated business, our liquidity could be materially adversely affected. For example, we anticipate a delay in the timing of premium payments to our Georgia health plan from GA DCH during the first quarter of 2012, or longer, that may impact a significant portion of the premium payments owed to us for the affected period. If this anticipated delay continues for an extended period of time, our liquidity could be materially adversely affected. As participants in state and federal healthcare programs, we are subject to extensive fraud and abuse laws which may give rise to lawsuits and claims against us, and the outcome of these lawsuits and claims may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Our operations are subject to various state and federal healthcare laws commonly referred to as “fraud and abuse” laws, including the federal False Claims Act. Many states have false claims act statutes which mirror the provisions of the federal act. The federal False Claims Act prohibits any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment. Suits filed under the federal False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual (known as a “relator” or, more commonly, “whistleblower”) on behalf of the government. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or be excluded from the Medicaid, Medicare or other state or federal healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. In addition, the DRA encourages states to enact state-versions of the federal False Claims Act that establish liability to the state for false and fraudulent Medicaid claims and that provide for, among other things, claims to be filed by qui tam relators. Although we believe we are in substantial compliance with applicable healthcare laws, we can give no assurances that we will not be subject to federal False Claims Act suits in the future. Any violations of any applicable fraud and abuse laws or any federal False Claims Act suit against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with the terms of our government contracts could negatively impact our profitability and subject us to fines, penalties and liquidated damages. We contract with various state governmental agencies and CMS to provide managed healthcare services. These contracts contain certain provisions regarding data submission, provider network maintenance, quality measures, continuity of care, call center performance and other requirements specific to state and program regulations. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we may be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages that could impact our profitability. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective action plan with the state and we could be subject to fines, penalties and liquidated damages and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to comply could also affect future membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Changes in Medicaid or Medicare funding by the states or the federal government could substantially reduce our profitability. Most of our revenues come from state government Medicaid premiums. The base premium rate paid by each state differs depending on a combination of various factors such as defined upper payment limits, a member’s health status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix and member eligibility category. Future levels of Medicaid premium rates may be affected by continued government efforts to contain medical costs and may further be affected by state and federal budgetary constraints. Although it is not clear that there is legislative support for any of the proposals, recent budget proposals for 2012 have suggested federal cuts to Medicaid funding (i.e. through block grants, modifications to the formula that calculates the FMAP and other means) by as much as $1 trillion over 10 years. Changes to Medicaid programs could reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, or increase our administrative or healthcare costs under such programs. States periodically consider reducing or reallocating the amount of money they spend 30 Table of Contents for Medicaid. We believe that additional reductions in Medicaid payments could substantially reduce our profitability. Further, our contracts with the states are subject to cancellation in the event of the unavailability of state funds. In some jurisdictions, such cancellation may be immediate and in other jurisdictions a notice period is required. State governments generally are experiencing tight budgetary conditions within their Medicaid programs. Macroeconomic conditions in recent years have, and are expected to continue to, put pressure on state budgets as the Medicaid eligible population increases, creating more need and competing for funding with other state budget items. We anticipate this will require government agencies with which we contract to find funding alternatives, which may result in reductions in funding for current programs and program expansions, contraction of covered benefits, limited or no premium rate increases or premium decreases or changes in timing of premium payments. If any state in which we operate were to decrease premiums paid to us, or pay us less than the amount necessary to keep pace with our cost trends, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Additionally, a portion of our premium revenues comes from CMS through our Medicare Advantage contracts. As a consequence, our Medicare Advantage plans are dependent on federal government funding levels. The premium rates paid to Medicare health plans are established by contract, although the rates differ depending on a combination of factors, including upper payment limits established by CMS, a member’s health profile and status, age, gender, county or region, benefit mix, member eligibility categories and the member’s risk scores. The Affordable Care Act included significant cuts in payments to Medicare Advantage plans and restructured payments to Medicare Advantage plans by setting payments to different percentages of Medicare fee-for-service rates. The Affordable Care Act also froze 2011 benchmark rates at 2010 levels so that in 2011, Medicare Advantage plans did not receive rate increases to account for recent healthcare cost increases or Medicare physician payment increases enacted since the implementation of 2010 Medicare Advantage benchmarks. Phase-in for this revised payment schedule will last for three years for plans in most areas, and last as long as four to six years for plans in other areas. Through a combination of the Affordable Care Act and a CMS Demonstration Project, beginning in 2012, Medicare Advantage plans can earn a bonus payment if the plan receives three or more stars (based on that year’s applicable current five-star quality rating system for Medicare Advantage plans). Under proposed regulations that may become effective, beginning with the 2013 star rating, plans that receive fewer than three stars in three consecutive years may be terminated from the Medicare Advantage program and will not be eligible to participate in the program again for 38 months. As of December 31, 2011, one of our seven Medicare Advantage plans had not received star ratings and the remaining six plans had received ratings of 2.5 out of five stars. Although we have implemented initiatives to improve the star ratings of the plans that have received them to at least three out of five stars, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in improving the star ratings for any or all of our Medicare Advantage plans. In addition, continuing government efforts to contain healthcare related expenditures, including prescription drug costs, and other federal budgetary constraints that result in changes in the Medicare program, including with respect to funding, could lead to reductions in the amount of reimbursement, elimination of coverage for certain benefits or mandate additional benefits, and reductions in the number of persons enrolled in or eligible for Medicare, which in turn could reduce the number of beneficiaries enrolled in our health plans and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Lastly, CMS has conducted Risk Adjustment Data Validation (“RADV”) audits to review the diagnosis code information provided by managed care companies for medical records in support of the reported diagnosis codes. These audits were performed on a sample basis across all Medicare Advantage plans. In 2009, CMS announced an expansion of these audits to include targeted or contract specific audits. These audits will cover calendar year 2009 and 2010 contract years with the intent of determining an error rate from a selected sample and extrapolating that error to determine any overpayments made to the Medicare Advantage plan. The payment error calculation methodology is currently proposed and CMS has requested comments on the proposed 31 Table of Contents methodology. To date, we have not been notified that any of our Medicare Advantage plans have been selected for audit. If we are selected for audit and the payment error calculation methodology is employed as proposed, we could be subject to an assessment for overpayment of premium for the years under audit due to the inherent judgment required when reviewing medical records and those assessments could be significant. Delays in program expansions or contract changes could negatively impact our business. In any program start-up, expansion, or re-bid, the implementation of the contract as designed may be affected by factors beyond our control. These include political considerations, network development, contract appeals, membership assignment (allocation for members who do not self-select) and errors in the bidding process, as well as difficulties experienced by other private vendors involved in the implementation, such as enrollment brokers. Our business, particularly plans for expansion or increased membership levels, could be negatively impacted by these delays or changes. If a state fails to renew its federal waiver application for mandated Medicaid enrollment into managed care or such application is denied, our membership in that state will likely decrease. States may only mandate Medicaid enrollment into managed care under federal waivers or demonstrations. Waivers and programs under demonstrations are approved for two-year periods and can be renewed on an ongoing basis if the state applies. We have no control over this renewal process. If a state does not renew its mandated program or the federal government denies the state’s application for renewal, our business could suffer as a result of a likely decrease in membership. We rely on the accuracy of eligibility lists provided by state governments, and in the case of our Medicare Advantage members, by the federal government. Inaccuracies in those lists could negatively affect our results of operations. Premium payments to us are based upon eligibility lists produced by government enrollment data. From time-to-time, governments require us to reimburse them for premiums paid to us based on an eligibility list that a government later determines contained individuals who were not in fact eligible for a government sponsored program, were enrolled twice in the same program or were eligible for a different premium category or a different program. Alternatively, a government could fail to pay us for members for whom we are entitled to receive payment. These reimbursements and recoupments can be significant in a given period and have occurred in periods that are significantly after the original date of eligibility. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of such reimbursement to the government or inability to receive payments we are due if we had made related payments to providers and were unable to recoup such payments from the providers. Our inability to operate new business opportunities at underwritten levels could have a material adverse effect on our business. In underwriting new business opportunities we must estimate future health benefits expense. We utilize a range of information and develop numerous assumptions. The information we use can often include, but is not limited to, historical cost data, population demographics, experience from other markets, trend assumptions and other general underwriting factors. The information we utilize may be inadequate or not applicable and our assumptions may be incorrect. If our underwriting estimates are incorrect, our cost experience could be materially different than expected. If costs are higher than expected, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our inability to maintain good relations with providers could harm our profitability or subject us to material fines, penalties or sanctions. We contract with providers as a means to assure access to healthcare services for our members, to manage healthcare costs and utilization, and to better monitor the quality of care being delivered. In any particular 32 Table of Contents market, providers could refuse to contract with us, demand higher payments, or take other actions which could result in higher healthcare costs, disruption to provider access for current members, or difficulty in meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. Our profitability depends, in large part, upon our ability to contract on favorable terms with hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Our provider arrangements with our primary care physicians and specialists usually are for two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year terms, subject to termination by us for cause based on provider conduct or other appropriate reasons. The contracts generally may be canceled by either party without cause upon 60 to 120 days prior written notice. Our contracts with hospitals are usually for two-year periods and automatically renew for successive one-year periods, subject to termination for cause due to provider misconduct or other appropriate reasons. Generally, our hospital contracts may be canceled by either party without cause on 60 to 120 days prior written notice. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to renew such contracts or enter into new contracts enabling us to service our members profitably. We will be required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets. Although we have established long-term relationships with many of our providers, we may be unable to enter into agreements with providers in new markets on a timely basis or under favorable terms. If we are unable to retain our current provider contracts, or enter into new provider contracts timely or on favorable terms, our profitability could be adversely affected. In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations and some specialists, may have significant market positions. If these providers refuse to contract with us or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts to themselves, our profitability could be adversely affected. Some providers that render services to our members have not entered into contracts with our health plans (out-of-network providers). In those cases, there is no pre-established understanding between the out-of-network provider and the health plan about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider. In some states, with respect to certain services, the amount that the health plan must pay to out-of-network providers for services provided to our members is defined by law or regulation, but in certain instances it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that is not clearly translatable into dollar terms. In such instances, we generally pay out-of-network providers based on our standard out-of-network fee schedule. Out-of-network providers may believe they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with the health plan. The uncertainty of the amount to pay and the possibility of subsequent adjustment of the payment could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are required to establish acceptable provider networks prior to entering new markets and to maintain such networks as a condition to continued operation in those markets. If we are unable to retain our current provider networks, or establish provider networks in new markets in a timely manner or on favorable terms, our profitability could be harmed. Further if we are unable to retain our current provider networks, we may be subject to material fines, penalties or sanctions from state or federal regulatory authorities, including but not limited to monetary fines, enrollment freezes and/or termination of our state or federal contracts. Our inability to integrate, manage, secure and grow our information systems effectively could disrupt our operations. Our operations depend significantly on effective information systems. The information gathered and processed by our information systems assists us in, among other things, monitoring utilization and other cost factors, processing provider claims and providing data to our regulators. Our providers also depend upon our information systems for membership verifications, claims status and other information. We operate our markets through integrated information technology systems for our financial, claims, customer service, care management, encounter management and sales/marketing systems. The ability to capture, process, enable local access to data and translate it into meaningful information is essential to our ability to operate across a multi-state service area in a cost efficient manner. Our information systems and applications 33 Table of Contents require continual maintenance, upgrading and enhancement to meet our operational needs. Moreover, any acquisition activity requires migrations to our platform and the integration of, various information systems. We are continually upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities. If we experience difficulties with the transition to or from information systems or are unable to properly maintain, secure or expand our information systems, we could suffer, among other things, from operational disruptions, loss of existing members and difficulty in attracting new members, regulatory problems and increases in administrative expenses. Due to our significant dependence on our information systems, there is a risk that a cyber attack or security breach could have a material adverse effect on our operations and negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Our information systems are subject to attack, damage or unauthorized access from external or internal sources. Such an attack could require us to expend significant resources to remediate any damage, interrupt our operations and damage our reputation. Moreover, a cyber attack could result in litigation or governmental enforcement actions. Although we have measures in place to protect our information systems, there can be no assurance that a cyber incident will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial position. An unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential member information could have an adverse effect on our business, reputation and profitability. As part of our normal operations, we collect, process and retain confidential member information. We are subject to various state and federal laws and rules regarding the use and disclosure of confidential member information, including HIPAA and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Despite the security measures we have in place to ensure compliance with applicable laws and rules, our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential member information, whether by us or a third party, could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and results of operations. Failure of a business in a new state or market could negatively impact our results of operations. Start-up costs associated with a new business can be substantial. For example, in order to obtain a certificate of authority and obtain a state contract in most jurisdictions, we must first establish a provider network, have systems in place and demonstrate our ability to process claims. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining the necessary license, winning the bid to provide service or attracting members in numbers sufficient to cover our costs, the new business would fail. We also could be obligated by the state to continue to provide services for some period of time without sufficient revenue to cover our ongoing costs or recover start-up costs. The costs associated with starting up the business could have a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, if the new business does not operate at underwritten levels, our profitability could be adversely affected. Difficulties in executing our acquisition strategy or integrating acquired business could adversely affect our business. Historically, acquisitions, including the acquisition of publicly funded program contract rights and related assets of other health plans, both in our existing service areas and in new markets, have been a significant factor in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as the result of acquisitions with complete accuracy, we believe that acquisitions similar in nature to those we have historically executed, or other acquisitions we may consider, will continue to contribute to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of these assets have greater financial resources than we have. Furthermore, many of the sellers are interested in either (i) selling, along with their publicly funded program assets, other assets in which we do not have an interest; or (ii) selling their companies, including their liabilities, as opposed to just the assets of the ongoing business. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete acquisitions on terms favorable 34 Table of Contents to us or that we can obtain the necessary financing for these acquisitions, particularly if the credit environment were to experience similar volatility and disruption to that experienced in the recent recession. We are generally required to obtain regulatory approval from one or more state agencies when making these acquisitions. In the case of an acquisition of a business located in a state in which we do not currently operate, we would be required to obtain the necessary licenses to operate in that state. In addition, although we may already operate in a state in which we acquire new business, we would be required to obtain additional regulatory approval if, as a result of the acquisition, we will operate in an area of the state in which we did not operate previously. There can be no assurance that we would be able to comply with these regulatory requirements for an acquisition in a timely manner, or at all. In addition to the difficulties we may face in identifying and consummating acquisitions, we will also be required to integrate our acquisitions with our existing operations. This may include the integration of: • additional employees who are not familiar with our operations; • existing provider networks, which may operate on different terms than our existing networks; • existing members, who may decide to switch to another health plan; and • disparate information and record keeping systems. We may be unable to successfully identify, consummate and integrate future acquisitions, including integrating the acquired businesses on to our technology platform, or to implement our operations strategy in order to operate acquired businesses profitably. There can be no assurance that incurring expenses to acquire a business will result in the acquisition being consummated. These expenses could adversely impact our selling, general and administrative expense ratio. If we are unable to effectively execute our acquisition strategy or integrate acquired businesses, our future growth will suffer and our results of operations could be harmed. We are subject to competition that impacts our ability to increase our penetration of the markets that we serve. We compete for members principally on the basis of size and quality of provider network, benefits provided and quality of service. We compete with numerous types of competitors, including other health plans and traditional fee-for-service programs, primary care case management programs and other commercial Medicaid or Medicare only health plans. Some of the health plans with which we compete have substantially larger enrollments, greater financial and other resources and offer a broader scope of products than we do. While many states mandate health plan enrollment for Medicaid eligible participants, including all of those in which we do business, the programs are voluntary in other states. Subject to limited exceptions by federally approved state applications, the federal government requires that there be a choice for Medicaid recipients among managed care programs. Voluntary programs and mandated competition will impact our ability to increase our market share. In addition, in most states in which we operate we are not allowed to market directly to potential members, and therefore, we rely on creating name brand recognition through our community-based programs. Where we have only recently entered a market or compete with health plans much larger than we are, we may be at a competitive disadvantage unless and until our community-based programs and other promotional activities create brand awareness. Negative publicity regarding the managed care industry may harm our business and operating results. In the past, the managed care industry and the health insurance industry in general have received negative publicity. This publicity has led to increased legislation, regulation, review of industry practices and private 35 Table of Contents litigation in the commercial sector. These factors may adversely affect our ability to market our services, require us to change our services and increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate, further increasing the costs of doing business and adversely affecting our operating results. We may be subject to claims relating to professional liability, which could cause us to incur significant expenses. Our providers and employees involved in medical care decisions may be exposed to the risk of professional liability claims. Some states have passed, or may consider passing in the future, legislation that exposes managed care organizations to liability for negligent treatment decisions by providers or benefits coverage determinations and/or legislation that eliminates the requirement that certain providers carry a minimum amount of professional liability insurance. This kind of legislation has the effect of shifting the liability for medical decisions or adverse outcomes to the managed care organization. This could result in substantial damage awards against us and our providers that could exceed the limits of applicable insurance coverage. Therefore, successful professional liability claims asserted against us, our providers or our employees could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to other litigation that may adversely affect our business or results of operations. We maintain errors and omissions insurance and such other lines of coverage as we believe are reasonable in light of our experience to date. However, this insurance may not be sufficient or available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liabilities that might adversely affect our business or results of operations. Even if any claims brought against us were unsuccessful or without merit, we would still have to defend ourselves against such claims. Any such defenses may be time-consuming and costly, and may distract our management’s attention. As a result, we may incur significant expenses and may be unable to effectively operate our business. We are currently involved in litigation, and may become involved in future litigation, which may result in substantial expense and may divert our attention from our business. In the normal course of business, we are involved in legal proceedings and, from time-to-time, we may be subject to additional legal claims of a non-routine nature. We may suffer an unfavorable outcome as a result of one or more claims, resulting in the depletion of capital to pay defense costs or the costs associated with any resolution of such matters. Depending on the costs of litigation and the amount and timing of any unfavorable resolution of claims against us, our financial position, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may be subject to securities class action litigation from time-to-time due to, among other things, the volatility of our stock price. When the market price of a stock has been volatile, regardless of whether such fluctuations are related to the operating performance of a particular company, holders of that stock have sometimes initiated securities class action litigation against such company. Any class action litigation against us could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert the time and attention of our management and other resources, or otherwise harm our business. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters and medical epidemics or pandemics could cause our business to suffer. Our profitability depends, to a significant degree, on our ability to predict and effectively manage health benefits expense. If an act or acts of terrorism or a natural disaster (such as a major hurricane) or a medical epidemic or pandemic, such as the H1N1 virus in 2009, were to occur in markets in which we operate, our business could suffer. The results of terrorist acts or natural disasters could lead to higher than expected medical costs, network and information technology disruptions, and other related factors beyond our control, which 36 Table of Contents would cause our business to suffer. A widespread epidemic or pandemic in a market could cause a breakdown in the medical care delivery system which could cause our business to suffer. Risks Related to Being a Regulated Entity Changes in government regulations designed to protect providers and members could force us to change how we operate and could harm our business and results of operations. Our business is extensively regulated by the states in which we operate and by the federal government. These laws and regulations are generally intended to benefit and protect providers and health plan members rather than us and our stockholders. Changes in existing laws and rules, the enactment of new laws and rules and changing interpretations of these laws and rules could, among other things: • force us to change how we do business; • restrict revenue and enrollment growth; • increase our health benefits and administrative costs; • impose additional capital requirements; and • increase or change our claims liability. Regulations could limit our profits as a percentage of revenues. Our Texas health plan is required to pay an experience rebate to the state of Texas in the event profits exceed established levels. We file experience rebate calculation reports with the state of Texas for this purpose. These reports are subject to audits and if the audit results in unfavorable adjustments to our filed reports, our financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively impacted. Our New Jersey and Maryland subsidiaries, as well as our CHIP product in Florida, are subject to minimum medical expense levels as a percentage of premium revenue. Our Florida subsidiary is subject to minimum behavioral health expense levels as a percentage of behavioral health premium revenues. In New Jersey, Maryland and Florida, premium revenue recoupment may occur if these levels are not met. In addition, our Ohio subsidiary is subject to certain limits on administrative costs and our Virginia subsidiary is subject to a limit on profits. These regulatory requirements, changes in these requirements and additional requirements by our other regulators could limit our ability to increase or maintain our overall profits as a percentage of revenues, which could harm our operating results. We have been required, and may in the future be required, to make payments to the states as a result of not meeting these expense levels. Additionally, we could be required to file a corrective plan of action with the states and we could be subject to fines and additional corrective action measures if we did not comply with the corrective plan of action. Our failure to comply could also affect future rate determinations and membership enrollment levels. These limitations could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Recently enacted healthcare reform and the implementation of these laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. In addition, if the new non-deductible federal premium-based assessment is imposed as enacted, or if we are unable to adjust our business model to address this new assessment, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. In March 2010, the President signed into law the Affordable Care Act. Implementation of this new law varies from as early as six months from the date of enactment to as long as 2018. 37 Table of Contents There are numerous steps required to implement the Affordable Care Act, including promulgating a substantial number of new regulations that may affect our business significantly. A number of federal regulations have been proposed for public comment by a handful of federal agencies, but these proposals have raised additional issues and uncertainties that will need to be addressed in additional regulations yet to be proposed or in the final version of the proposed regulations eventually adopted. Further, there has been resistance to expansion at the state level, largely due to the budgetary pressures faced by the states. Because of the unsettled nature of these reforms and numerous steps required to implement them, we cannot predict what additional health insurance requirements will be implemented at the federal or state level, or the effect that any future legislation or regulations or the pending litigation challenging the Affordable Care Act, will have on our business or our growth opportunities. There is also considerable uncertainty regarding the impact of the Affordable Care Act and the other reforms on the health insurance market as a whole. In addition, we cannot predict our competitors’ reactions to the changes. A number of states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions. There have been several federal lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, and various federal appeals courts have reached inconsistent decisions on constitutionality. The parties in those suits have sought review by the U.S. Supreme Court which has agreed to hear arguments in March of 2012. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the Affordable Care Act. Although we believe the Affordable Care Act will provide us with significant opportunity for growth, the enacted reforms, as well as future regulations, legislative changes and judicial decisions, may in fact have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. If we fail to effectively implement our operational and strategic initiatives with respect to the implementation of healthcare reform, or do not do so as effectively as our competitors, our business may also be materially adversely affected. The Affordable Care Act also imposes a significant new non-deductible federal premium-based assessment and other assessments on health insurers. If this federal premium-based assessment is imposed as enacted, and if the cost of the federal premium-based assessment is not factored into the calculation of our premium rates, or if we are unable to otherwise adjust our business model to address this new assessment, our results of operations, financial position or cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Changes in healthcare laws could reduce our profitability. Numerous proposals relating to changes in healthcare laws have been introduced, some of which have been passed by Congress and the states in which we operate or may operate in the future. These include mandated medical loss ratio thresholds as well as waivers requested by states for various elements of their programs. Changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered and interpretations of existing laws and rules may also change from time-to-time. We are unable to predict what regulatory changes may occur or what effect any particular change may have on our business and results of operations. Although some changes in government regulations, such as the removal of the requirements on the enrollment mix between commercial and public sector membership, have encouraged managed care participation in public sector programs, we are unable to predict whether new laws or proposals will continue to favor or hinder the growth of managed healthcare. We cannot predict the outcome of these legislative or regulatory proposals, nor the effect which they might have on us. Legislation or regulations that require us to change our current manner of operation, provide additional benefits or change our contract arrangements could seriously harm our operations and financial results. If state regulators do not approve payments of dividends, distributions or administrative fees by our subsidiaries to us, it could negatively affect our business strategy and liquidity. We principally operate through our health plan subsidiaries. These subsidiaries are subject to state insurance holding company system and other regulations that regulate the amount of dividends and distributions that can be paid to us without prior approval of, or notification to, state regulators. We also have administrative services agreements with our subsidiaries in which we agree to provide them with services and benefits (both tangible and 38 Table of Contents intangible) in exchange for the payment of a fee. Some states limit the administrative fees which our subsidiaries may pay. If the regulators were to deny our subsidiaries’ requests to pay dividends to us or restrict or disallow the payment of the administrative fee or not allow us to recover the costs of providing the services under our administrative services agreement or require a significant change in the timing or manner in which we recover those costs, the funds available to our Company as a whole would be limited, which could harm our ability to implement our business strategy, expand our infrastructure, improve our information technology systems, make needed capital expenditures and service our debt as well as negatively impact our liquidity. If state regulatory agencies require a statutory capital level higher than existing state regulations we may be required to make additional capital contributions. Our operations are conducted through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which include HMOs, HICs, an A&H and a PHSP. HMOs, HICs, A&Hs and PHSPs are subject to state regulations that, among other things, require the maintenance of minimum levels of statutory capital and the maintenance of certain financial ratios (which are referred to as risk based capital requirements), as defined by each state. Certain states also require performance bonds or letters of credit from our subsidiaries. Additionally, state regulatory agencies may require, at their discretion, individual regulated entities to maintain statutory capital levels higher than the minimum capital and surplus levels under state regulations. If this were to occur or other requirements change for one of our subsidiaries, we may be required to make additional capital contributions to the affected subsidiary. Any additional capital contribution made to one of the affected subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to grow. Failure to comply with government laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties and limitations on our profitability. We are subject to numerous local, state and federal laws and regulations. Violation of the laws or regulations governing our operations could result in the imposition of sanctions, the cancellation of our contracts to provide services, or in the extreme case, the suspension or revocation of our licenses and/or exclusion from participation in state or federal healthcare programs. We can give no assurance that the terms of our contracts with the states or the manner in which we are directed to comply with our state contracts is in accordance with the CMS regulations. We may be subject to material fines or other sanctions in the future. If we became subject to material fines, or if other sanctions or other corrective actions were imposed upon us, our ability to continue to operate our business could be materially and adversely affected. From time-to-time we have been subject to sanctions as a result of violations of marketing regulations. Although we train our employees with respect to compliance with local, state and federal laws of each of the states in which we do business, no assurance can be given that violations will not occur. We are, or may become subject to, various state and federal laws designed to address healthcare fraud and abuse, including false claims laws. State and federal laws prohibit the submission of false claims and other acts that are considered fraudulent or abusive. The submission of claims to a state or federal healthcare program for items and services that are determined to be “not provided as claimed” may lead to the imposition of civil monetary penalties, criminal fines and imprisonment, and/or exclusion from participation in state and federal funded healthcare programs, including the Medicaid and Medicare programs. The DRA requires all entities that receive $5.0 million or more in annual Medicaid funds to establish specific written policies for their employees, contractors, and agents regarding various false claims-related laws and whistleblower protections under such laws as well as provisions regarding their policies and procedures for detecting and preventing fraud, waste and abuse. These requirements are conditions of receiving all future payments under the Medicaid program. We believe that we have made appropriate efforts to meet the requirements of the compliance provisions of the DRA. However, if it is determined that we have not met the 39 Table of Contents requirements appropriately, we could be subject to civil penalties and/or be barred from receiving future payments under the Medicaid programs in the states in which we operate thereby materially adversely affecting our business, results of operations and financial condition. HIPAA broadened the scope of fraud and abuse laws applicable to healthcare companies. HIPAA created civil penalties for, among other things, billing for medically unnecessary goods or services. HIPAA established new enforcement mechanisms to combat fraud and abuse, including a whistleblower program. Further, HIPAA imposes civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with the privacy and security standards set forth in the regulation. The Affordable Care Act created additional tools for fraud prevention, including increased oversight of providers and suppliers participating or enrolling in Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. Those enhancements included mandatory licensure for all providers and site visits, fingerprinting and criminal background checks for higher risk providers. On September 23, 2010, CMS issued proposed regulations designed to implement these requirements. It is not clear at this time the degree to which managed care providers would have to comply with these new requirements. The HITECH Act, one part of the ARRA, modified certain provisions of HIPAA by, among other things, extending the privacy and security provisions to business associates, mandating new regulations around electronic medical records, expanding enforcement mechanisms, allowing the state Attorneys General to bring enforcement actions and increasing penalties for violations. The HHS, as required by the HITECH Act, has issued the HITECH Breach Notification Interim Final Rule. The various requirements of the HITECH Act and the HITECH Breach Notification Interim Final Rule have different compliance dates, some of which have passed and some of which will occur in the future. With respect to those requirements whose compliance dates have passed, we believe that we are in compliance with these provisions. With respect to those requirements whose compliance dates are in the future, we are reviewing our current practices and identifying those which may be impacted by upcoming regulations. It is our intention to implement these new requirements on or before the applicable compliance dates. The federal and state governments have and continue to enact other fraud and abuse laws as well. Our failure to comply with HIPAA or these other laws could result in criminal or civil penalties and exclusion from Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs and could lead to the revocation of our licenses. These penalties or exclusions, were they to occur, would negatively impact our ability to operate our business. Our business could be adversely impacted by adoption of the new ICD-10 standardized coding set for diagnoses. HHS has released rules pursuant to HIPAA which mandate the use of standard formats in electronic healthcare transactions. HHS also has published rules requiring the use of standardized code sets and unique identifiers for providers. These new standardized code sets, known as International Classification of Diseases, 10th Edition, or ICD-10, will require substantial investments from healthcare organizations, including us. While use of the ICD-10 code sets will require significant administrative changes, we believe that the cost of compliance with these regulations has not had and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, these changes may result in errors and otherwise negatively impact our service levels, and we may experience complications related to supporting customers that are not fully compliant with the revised requirements as of the applicable compliance date. Furthermore, if physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for services provided as a result of the new coding set, we may be unable to process payments to providers properly or efficiently creating difficulties in adequately estimating our claims liability and negatively impacting our ability to be reimbursed, or adequately reimbursed through our premium rates, for such services. The federal government initially established October 2013 as the deadline by which healthcare organizations, including health insurers, would be required to comply with ICD-10 but on February 16, 2012 HHS announced its intent to delay the deadline to an undetermined future date. 40 Table of Contents Compliance with the terms and conditions of our Corporate Integrity Agreement requires significant resources and, if we fail to comply, we could be subject to penalties or excluded from participation in government healthcare programs, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. In August 2008, in connection with the settlement of a qui tam action, we voluntarily entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“OIG”). The Corporate Integrity Agreement provides that we shall, among other things, keep in place and continue our current compliance program, including employment of a corporate compliance officer and compliance officers at our health plans, a corporate compliance committee and compliance committees at our health plans, a compliance committee of our Board of Directors, a code of conduct, comprehensive compliance policies, training and monitoring, a compliance hotline, an open door policy and a disciplinary process for compliance violations. The Corporate Integrity Agreement further provides that we shall provide periodic reports to the OIG, appoint a benefits rights ombudsman responsible for addressing concerns raised by health plan members and potential enrollees and engage an independent review organization to assist us in assessing and evaluating our compliance with the requirements of the federal healthcare programs and other obligations under the Corporate Integrity Agreement and retain a compliance expert to provide independent compliance counsel to our Board of Directors. Maintaining the broad array of processes, policies, and procedures necessary to comply with the Corporate Integrity Agreement is expected to continue to require a significant portion of management’s attention as well as the application of significant resources. Failing to meet the Corporate Integrity Agreement obligations could have material adverse consequences for us including monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. In addition, in the event of an uncured material breach or deliberate violation of the Corporate Integrity Agreement, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs and/or subject to prosecution, which could significantly harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Ineffective management of rapid growth or our inability to grow could negatively affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. We have experienced rapid growth. In 2001, we had $877.3 million of premium revenue. In 2011, we had $6.3 billion in premium revenue. This increase represents a compounded annual growth rate of 21.8%. For the year ended December 31, 2011 premium revenue increased 9.0% to $6.3 billion versus $5.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2010. Depending on acquisitions and other opportunities, as well as macroeconomic conditions that affect membership such as those conditions experienced recently and the opportunity for growth created under the Affordable Care Act, we expect to continue to grow rapidly. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our management and on other resources, and increased capital requirements of subsidiaries may require additional capital contributions which could impact our liquidity. We anticipate that continued growth, if any, will require us to continue to recruit, hire, train and retain a substantial number of new and highly skilled medical, administrative, information technology, finance and other support personnel. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. If we continue to experience rapid growth, our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our operations, and our management may fail to anticipate adequately all demands that growth will place on our resources. In addition, due to the initial costs incurred upon the acquisition of new businesses, rapid growth could adversely affect our short-term profitability. Our inability to manage growth effectively or our inability to grow could have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. As of December 31, 2011, we had $659.9 million in aggregate principal amount of total indebtedness outstanding, including $400.0 million outstanding in aggregate principal amount of our 7.5% Senior Notes due November 15, 2019 (“7.5% Senior Notes”) and $259.9 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2012 (“2.0% Convertible Senior Notes”), which we plan to repay at or before May 15, 2012, including interest accrued thereon, using a portion of the proceeds from the offering of our 7.5% Senior Notes. Additionally, on January 18, 2012, we issued an additional $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 7.5% Senior Notes. The additional $75.0 million in principal was issued at a premium of 103.75%. Following the issuance of the additional notes, the aggregate principal amount of our 7.5% Senior Notes outstanding was $475.0 million. Our debt service obligation on our 7.5% Senior Notes, including the issuance of the additional notes, is approximately $36.0 million per year in cash interest payments. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our debt obligations other than those related to our 2.0% Convertible Senior Notes, depends on our and our subsidiaries’ financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that financing sources will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the 7.5% Senior Notes may restrict us from adopting some or all of these alternatives. Restrictive covenants in our debt instruments may limit our operating flexibility. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in defaults under our indenture and future debt instruments even though we may be able to meet our debt service obligations. The indenture governing our 7.5% Senior Notes and any debt instruments we enter into in the future may impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The restrictions in the indenture governing the 7.5% Senior Notes significantly limit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make other distributions or payments, repay junior indebtedness, sell assets, make investments, engage in transactions with affiliates, create certain liens and engage in certain types of mergers or acquisitions. Our future debt instruments may have similar or more restrictive covenants. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financings, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. If we fail to comply with these restrictions, the noteholders or lenders under any debt instrument could declare a default under the terms of the relevant indebtedness even though we are able to meet debt service obligations and, because of cross-default and cross-acceleration provisions in our debt instruments, all of our debt could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds available, or that we would have access to sufficient capital from other sources, to repay any accelerated debt. Even if we could obtain additional financing, we cannot assure you that the terms would be favorable to us. As a result, any event of default could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition, and could prevent us from paying amounts due under our 7.5% Senior Notes. 42 Table of Contents Our investment portfolio may suffer losses from reductions in market interest rates and fluctuations in fixed income securities which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, we had total cash and investments of $2.2 billion. The following table shows the types, percentages and average Standard and Poor’s (“S&P”) ratings of our holdings within our investment portfolio at December 31, 2011: Portfolio Average S&P Percentage Rating Auction rate securities 0.5 % AAA Cash, bank deposits and commercial paper 9.4 % AAA Certificates of deposit 10.2 % AAA Corporate bonds 25.9 % A Debt securities of government sponsored entities and U.S. Treasury securities 14.5 % AA+ Equity index funds 1.9 % * Money market funds 19.2 % AAA Municipal bonds 18.4 % AA+ 100.0 % AA * Not applicable. Our investment portfolio generated approximately $16.5 million, $17.2 million and $22.4 million of pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The performance of our investment portfolio is primarily interest rate driven, and consequently, changes in interest rates affect our returns on, and the fair value of our portfolio. This factor or any disruptions in the credit markets could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows in future periods. The value of our investments is influenced by varying economic and market conditions and a decrease in value could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Our investment portfolio is comprised of investments classified as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale investments are carried at fair value, and the unrealized gains or losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. If a security experiences a decline in value and we intend to sell such security prior to maturity, or if it is likely that we will be required to sell such security prior to maturity, the security is deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired and it is written down to fair value through a charge to earnings. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, we review our investment securities to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. This review is subjective and requires a high degree of judgment. We conduct this review on a quarterly basis, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary. Such factors considered include, the length of time and the extent to which market value has been less than cost, financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, recommendations of investment advisors and forecasts of economic, market or industry trends. This review process also entails an evaluation of the likelihood that we will hold individual securities until they mature or full cost can be recovered. The economic environment and periodic volatility of the securities markets increases the difficulty of assessing investment impairment and the same influences tend to increase the risk of potential impairment of these assets. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we did not record any charges for other-than-temporary impairment of our available-for-sale securities. Over time, the economic and market environment could deteriorate or provide additional insight regarding the fair value of certain securities, which could change our judgment regarding impairment. This could result in realized losses relating to other-than-temporary declines to 43 Table of Contents be recorded as an expense. Given the variability in market conditions and the significant judgments involved, there is continuing risk that further declines in fair value may occur and material other-than-temporary impairments may result in realized losses in future periods which could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Adverse credit market conditions may have a material adverse affect on our liquidity or our ability to obtain credit on acceptable terms. The financial markets have experienced periods of volatility and disruption. Future volatility and disruption is possible and unpredictable. In the event we need access to additional capital to pay our operating expenses, make payments on our indebtedness, such as the principal of our 7.5% Senior Notes, pay capital expenditures or fund acquisitions, our ability to obtain such capital may be limited and the cost of any such capital may be significantly higher than in past periods depending on the market conditions and our financial position at the time we pursue additional financing. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. If a combination of these factors were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms. This could restrict our ability to (i) acquire new business or enter new markets, (ii) service or refinance our existing debt, (iii) make necessary capital investments, (iv) maintain statutory net worth requirements in the states in which we do business and (v) make other expenditures necessary for the ongoing conduct of our business. 