Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves certain risks. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business An unfavorable shareholder vote or delay in the consummation of the Transaction will adversely affect our business and could lead to further deterioration of shareholder value. If our shareholders do not approve the Transaction or if the Transaction is not consummated for any other reason, we will be required to pursue another financing transaction which, if available at all, would likely be on less favorable terms than the Tranaction, or seek other restructuring alternatives, which would also likely be less favorable to us and our shareholders than the Transaction. Having undertaken a thorough process of seeking bids to purchase or capitalize the company, with the assistance of Goldman Sachs and Bear Stearns, we do not believe at this time that an alternative financing or restructuring transaction or pursuit of a run-off plan would be available following a shareholder rejection of the Transaction. Accordingly, upon a rejection of the Transaction, we believe we will be required to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws in the jurisdictions where we and our operating subsidiaries are domiciled. An unfavorable shareholder vote or delay in the consummation of the Transaction will require us to seek out alternative capital sources which could be unavailable or on less favorable terms than the Issuance. We need to raise substantial capital in the short term to meet our liquidity needs. Without shareholder approval of the Transaction and the consummation of the Transaction, we would need to seek out alternative capital sources which may not be available or, if available, would likely be on less favorable terms than the Transaction. In addition, it is unlikely that we would be able to enter into such a transaction on a timely basis. In addition, in connection with the execution of the Securities Purchase Agreement on November 27, 2006, we entered into a commitment letter with Cerberus pursuant to which Cerberus agreed to provide Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd. a term loan facility in an amount of up to $100 million and we entered into a commitment letter with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Calyon Securities (USA) Inc. for a collateral finance facility of up to $500 million. These facilities were arranged by the Investors and formed part of the negotiated Transaction. If shareholder approval is not obtained, we will need to seek alternative capital sources, which may not be available or, if available, would likely be on less favorable terms. An unfavorable shareholder vote or delay in the consummation of the Transaction would likely lead to further downgrading of the ratings of both our operating companies and our holding company, which could further inhibit our ability to obtain sources of capital. In light of ratings actions taken over the last few months, immediate action may be taken by the rating agencies to further downgrade the ratings of both our operating companies and our holding company. The various rating agencies have publicly announced their intention to further downgrade us if the Transaction is not consummated. 22 Any such further downgrade will further inhibit our ability to obtain sources of capital and, as discussed below, would likely lead to demands from existing creditors for additional collateral. Moreover, we believe that our relationships with existing clients will further suffer during any prolonged period of uncertainty. With further ratings downgrades and uncertain prospects of achieving an alternative restructuring, we would likely lose many of our key employees and thereby we would risk losing our ability to manage our existing book of business effectively and to retain value for shareholders. The recent downgrades, and any further downgrades, could make us less competitive and will increase our cost of capital. Ratings are an important factor in attracting business in our life reinsurance business. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including our insurance subsidiaries. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. Although most of the factors considered relate to the rated company, some of the factors take into account general economic conditions and circumstances outside the rated company's control. The objective of rating organizations is to provide an opinion of an insurer's financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders. These ratings are subject to periodic review by the relevant rating agency and may be revised downward or withdrawn at the sole discretion of the rating agency. In addition, these ratings are not an evaluation directed to investors in our securities and are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities. See "Item 1 - Competition and Ratings" starting on page 12 for a description of our subsidiaries' ratings. Although there are certain in-force treaties with recapture provisions that are triggered by a ratings downgrade, the recent downgrades have and will continue to adversely affect our ability to sell products, write new treaties, retain existing business (through the termination of open treaties for new business), and compete for attractive acquisition opportunities. In addition, as a result of the downgrades, the interest rates for our credit facilities and securitization transactions have increased. Our ability to raise capital for our business and the cost of such capital will be adversely affected by downgrades in our credit ratings. An unfavorable shareholder vote or delay in consummation of the Transaction would likely lead to demands from existing creditors for additional collateral. On November 26, 2006, we entered into an amended forbearance agreement with HSBC, whereby HSBC agreed not to make demands for additional collateral under our collateral finance facilities with them through December 31, 2008 so long as certain conditions are met. This forbearance agreement will terminate if our shareholders do not approve the Transaction or if the Transaction is not consummated for any other reason and we likely will face demands from HSBC for additional collateral, which we may not be able to meet, and in any event which would further exacerbate our tight liquidity and capital position. Any breach by us of our obligation to post collateral could result in an acceleration of our obligations under these collateral finance facilities, which would require us to seek bankruptcy protection under applicable law if we were unable promptly to access alternative sources of capital. An unfavorable shareholder vote or delay in the consummation of the Transaction will adversely affect our business and could result in us seeking protection under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws in the jurisdictions where we and our operating subsidiaries are domiciled and/or regulatory intervention by our primary insurance regulators. Given our ongoing liquidity and capital needs, we may need to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy and insolvency laws in the jurisdictions where we and our operating subsidiaries are domiciled if the Transaction is not consummated. Bankruptcy filings by us and our subsidiaries would be complex and expensive. Moreover, we and our Cayman Islands domiciled subsidiaries would need to request the commencement of parallel "joint provisional liquidation" proceedings in Bermuda and the Cayman Islands in order to assure protection from creditors outside the United States. Coordination of these related proceedings would be difficult and cumbersome. While we may be able to restructure or sell our business and emerge from such bankruptcy proceedings, we cannot predict the costs of, or amount of time we would spend in bankruptcy. Lengthy bankruptcy proceeding might disrupt our business, as well as create additional concerns for our employees and policyholders. There can be no assurance concerning the outcome of such proceedings or their impact on shareholder value. Further, in the event that shareholders reject the Transaction, we believe our primary insurance regulators will likely consider exercising one or more regulatory intervention powers, which are designed primarily for the protection of our ceding company clients and not shareholders. Such regulatory intervention powers include regulatory supervision or formal insolvency procedures, in which case the interests of our shareholders would be subordinated to those of ceding insurers, which could reduce or eliminate any value to be received by shareholders. Our existing sources of liquidity and collateral may be insufficient or unavailable to fund our expected future liquidity needs and we are required to raise new sources of equity capital, liquidity and collateral, which sources, if available, will be on less advantageous terms than our historical sources. Based on our known sources and uses of liquidity, our liquidity position is very tight over the near term. As a result of the losses in the second quarter of 2006, we have either completely drawn down or terminated certain of our liquidity facilities, including for example the Stingray facility and our bank credit facility. Without new sources of capital, we face the risk of running out of liquidity in the second quarter of 2007. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in obtaining new sources of capital and if not successful and we are not otherwise able to consummate the Transaction by the end of the second quarter of 2007, we will face a default on our obligations to fund our collateral and to meet our capital needs. If our shareholders approve the Transaction at the Extraordinary General meeting of Shareholders to be held at March 2, 2007, Cerberus has agreed to provide us a term loan facility in an amount of $100.0 million. Definitive documentation for this term loan is currently being negotiated. However, we can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter this term loan facility or satisfy all of the conditions to borrowing thereunder. Our ability to pay dividends depends on our subsidiaries' ability to distribute funds to us. We are a holding company, with our principal assets consisting of the stock of our insurance company subsidiaries. Our ability to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, our non-cumulative perpetual preferred shares, and to pay debt service on any of our indebtedness, depends significantly on the ability of our insurance company subsidiaries, our principal sources of cash flow, to declare and distribute dividends or to advance money to us in the form of inter-company loans or service fees. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to various state and foreign government statutory and regulatory restrictions applicable to insurance companies generally that limit the amount of dividends, loans and advances and other payments to affiliates. If insurance regulators at any time determine that payment of a dividend or any other payment to an affiliate would be detrimental to an insurance subsidiary's policyholders or creditors, because of the financial condition of the insurance subsidiary or otherwise, the regulators may block dividends or other payments to affiliates that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. We have also agreed with HSBC not to declare any dividends for a two year period, other than on currently outstanding preferred securities, unless Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd. receives an insurer financial strength rating of at least "A-" by Standard & Poor's Rating Services and "A3" by Moody's Investor Service. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, we have agreed not to declare any dividends, other than on currently outstanding preferred securities, until the completion of the Transaction or the termination of the Securities Purchase Agreement. The issuance of the Convertible Shares will significantly dilute the interests of our existing shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, we had 60,554,104 ordinary shares outstanding and obligations to issue an additional 12,442,021 ordinary shares upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and other securities exercisable or convertible into our ordinary shares. Upon the completion of the Transaction, the Investors will hold approximately 68.7% of our outstanding voting securities (subject to certain adjustments, if any). As a result, our pro forma fully converted book value per share as of December 31, 2006, after giving effect to the Transaction and the payment of related transaction costs, would decrease from $15.78 per share to $7.68 per share. The Investors will also have priority over the holders of our ordinary shares with respect to the distribution of our assets in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, and will receive consideration per share potentially in excess of that received by holders of our ordinary shares in the event of a change of control. 23 In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, after the consummation of the Transaction, we will indemnify the Investors for any breaches of representations, warranties and covenants, for uncollectability of certain reinsurance recoverables and for adverse mortality in our ING business, subject in each case to certain limitations. Other than indemnification with respect to the Investors' out-of-pocket costs, our indemnification obligations will be satisfied not through a cash payment but rather through adjustment of the conversion ratio of the Convertible Shares. Therefore, to the extent that we are required to indemnify the Investors pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, the holdings of our existing shareholders will be further diluted. Upon the consummation of the Transaction, the Investors will own a controlling block of our voting shares and will have the ability to appoint a majority of our directors. Upon the consummation of the Transaction, the Investors will hold securities representing approximately 68.7% of the voting power of all of our shareholders (subject to certain adjustments, if any) and will have the ability to appoint at closing more than a majority of our directors. As a result, the Investors (and their assignees) will have the ability to determine matters requiring shareholder approval, including without limitation, the election and removal of directors, and business combinations, changes of control and sales of all or substantially all of our assets. Pursuant to the terms of the Certificate of Designations, holders of Convertible Shares will also have the right to a separate class vote on a variety of change of control transactions and other key corporate transactions, including, for example, the incurrence of debt in excess of $10.0 million. The market price for our ordinary shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly, ranging between an intraday high of $25.49 per share in March 2006 to an intraday low of $2.95 per share on July 31, 2006. The overall market and the price of our ordinary shares may continue to be volatile. There may be a significant effect on the market price for our ordinary shares due to, among other things: o changes in investors' and analysts' perceptions of the risks and conditions of our business, o changes in investors' and analysts' perception of the likelihood of us consummating the Transaction, o the size of the public float of our ordinary shares, o the announcement of acquisitions by us or our competitors, o variations in our anticipated or actual operating results or the results of our competitors, o regulatory developments, o market conditions, and o general economic conditions. Our inability to attract and retain qualified employees or the loss of any of our key employees could negatively impact our business. Our success substantially depends upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees and upon the ability of our senior management and other key employees to implement our business strategy. We believe there are only a limited number of available qualified executives in the business lines in which we compete. We rely substantially upon the services of Paul Goldean, our President and Chief Executive Officer; David Howell, the Chief Executive Officer of our Life Reinsurance International Segment; Hugh McCormick, our Executive Vice President of Corporate Development; Dean Miller, our Chief Financial Officer; and Clifford Wagner, the Chief Executive Officer of our Life Reinsurance North America Segment. Each of the foregoing members of senior management has an employment agreement and we maintain a $2,500,000 key man life insurance policy for Mr. Wagner. The loss of 24 the services of members of our senior management, or our inability to hire and retain other talented personnel from the very limited pool of qualified insurance professionals, could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy which could harm our financial performance. Several class action securities lawsuits have been filed against us and certain of our current and former officers and directors, and we cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named defendants in federal securities class action lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits may make additional claims, expand existing claims and/or expand the time periods covered by the complaints, and other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims. We expect to incur significant defense costs regardless of the outcome of these lawsuits. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, part or all of which 25 may not be covered by insurance. These lawsuits may result in a diversion of our management's time and attention and the incurrence of increased costs. Inadequate risk analysis and underwriting may result in a decline in our profits. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess and manage the risks associated with the business that we reinsure. We have developed risk analysis and underwriting guidelines, policies, and procedures with the objective of controlling the quality of the business as well as the pricing of the risks we are assuming. Among other things, these processes rely heavily on our underwriting, our analysis of mortality trends and lapse rates, and our understanding of medical improvements and their impact on mortality. If these processes are inadequate or are based on inadequate information, we may not establish appropriate premium rates and our reserves may not be adequate to cover our losses. In addition, we are dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by, and information provided to us by, ceding companies. For example, we incurred a charge to net income of $10.4 million in the third quarter of 2003 when we discovered that one of our ceding insurers had underreported death claims to us over a three-year period. We are also subject to the risk that the ceding clients may not have adequately evaluated the risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. To the extent actual claims exceed our underlying assumptions, we will be required to increase our liabilities, which will reduce our profits in the period in which we identify the deficiency. Reserves are estimates based on actuarial and statistical projections, at a given point in time, of what we ultimately expect to pay out on claims and benefits, based on facts and circumstances then known, predictions of future events, estimates of future trends in mortality, morbidity and other variable factors such as persistency, inflation and interest rates. Because of the many assumptions and estimates involved in establishing reserves, the reserving process is inherently uncertain. Life reinsurance is a highly competitive industry, which could limit our ability to gain or maintain our competitive position. The life reinsurance industry is highly competitive, and we encounter significant competition from other reinsurance companies, as well as competition from other providers of financial services. Competition in the reinsurance business is based on price, financial strength ratings, reputation, experience, relationships and service. Many of our competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial resources and have longer operating histories than we do. Competition from other reinsurers could adversely affect our competitive position. We consider our major competitors in the United States to include Swiss Re, Reinsurance Group of America Inc., Munich American Reassurance Company, Generali USA Life Re, and Transamerica Reinsurance. In other markets outside the United States, our competitors include Swiss Re, Reinsurance Group of America, Hannover Re, Scor and XL Capital Ltd. 26 Our life reinsurance contracts and variable life insurance policies expose us to mortality risk which could negatively affect our net income. Mortality risk is the risk that death claims may differ from the amount we assumed in pricing our reinsurance contracts and our variable life insurance policies. Mortality experience that is less favorable than the mortality rates that we assumed will negatively affect our net income. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced higher than expected mortality, which negatively affected our net income. If our investment strategy is not successful, we could suffer unexpected losses. The success of our investment strategy is crucial to the success of our business. Specifically, we are subject to: o market value risk, which is the risk that our invested assets will decrease in value. This decrease in value may be due to a change in the yields realized on our assets and prevailing market yields for similar assets, an unfavorable change in the liquidity of the investment or an unfavorable change in the financial prospects or a downgrade in the credit rating of the issuer of the investment; o reinvestment risk, which is the risk that interest rates will decline and funds reinvested will earn less than expected; and o duration matching risk, which is the risk that liabilities are surrendered or mature sooner than anticipated and that we may have to sell assets at an undesirable time to provide for policyholder surrenders or withdrawals. We attempt to address such risks in product pricing and in establishing policy reserves. If our assets do not properly match our anticipated liabilities or our investments do not provide sufficient returns to enable us to satisfy our guaranteed fixed benefit obligations then our profits and financial condition would deteriorate. Also, declines in the value of our investments that provide collateral for reinsurance contracts would require us to post additional collateral. In addition, our investment portfolio includes mortgage-backed securities, known as MBSs, and collateralized mortgage obligations, known as CMOs. As of December 31, 2006, MBSs and CMOs constituted approximately 19.2% of our invested assets. As with other fixed income investments, the fair value of these securities will fluctuate depending on market and other general economic conditions and the interest rate environment. Changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on these investments. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and MBSs and CMOs are prepaid more quickly, requiring us to reinvest the proceeds at the then current market rates. We may also enter into foreign currency, interest rate and credit derivatives and other hedging transactions in an effort to manage risks. Structuring these derivatives and hedges so as to effectively manage these risks is an inherently uncertain process. If our calculations are incorrect, or if we do not properly structure our derivatives or hedges, we may have unexpected losses and our assets may not be adequate to meet our needed reserves, which could adversely affect our business, earnings and financial condition. General economic conditions affect the markets for interest-rate-sensitive securities, including the level and volatility of interest rates and the extent and timing of investor participation in such markets. Unexpected changes in general economic conditions could create volatility or illiquidity in these markets in which we hold positions and harm our investment return. We may not be able to grow as quickly as we have in the past. Our current and projected ratings will make new business growth very challenging for the next several years. To the extent that we do not regain adequate ratings, our new business volumes may be substantially less than in 27 prior years. Also, to the extent that consolidation of the domestic life reinsurance industry leads to an improved pricing environment for reinsurers, such pricing increases may be offset by larger retentions and the amount of risk our clients retain. While international markets in Europe and Asia may offer better long-term prospects for growth, the timing of the growth is uncertain and is not likely to offset any slow-down in the domestic life reinsurance industry. In certain reinsurance contracts we do not maintain control of the invested assets, which may limit our ability to control investment risks on these assets and may expose us to credit risk of the ceding company. As part of our business we enter into reinsurance agreements on a modified coinsurance and funds withheld coinsurance basis. In these transactions, the ceding insurance company retains the assets supporting the ceded business and manages them for our account. As of December 31, 2006, $1.9 billion of assets were held by ceding companies under such agreements and were recorded under "funds withheld at interest" on our balance sheet. Although the ceding company must adhere to general standards agreed to by us for the management of these assets, we do not control the selection of the specific investments or the timing of the purchase or sale of investments made by the ceding company. Accordingly, we may be at risk if the ceding company selects investments that deviate from our agreed standards or if the ceding company performs poorly in the purchase, sale and management of those assets. In addition, these assets are not segregated from the ceding company's other assets, and we may not be able to recover all of these assets in the event of the insolvency of the ceding insurer. In certain other reinsurance arrangements, we may place assets in a trust in order to provide the ceding company with credit for reinsurance on its financial statements. Although we generally have the right to direct the investment of assets in these trusts, in the event of the insolvency of the ceding company, its receiver may attempt to take control of those assets. Interest rate fluctuations could lower the income we derive from the difference between the interest rates we earn on our investments and interest we pay under our reinsurance contracts. Significant changes in interest rates expose us to the risk of not earning income or experiencing losses based on the difference between the interest rates earned on investments and the credited interest rates paid on outstanding reinsurance contracts. Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect the income we derive from these interest rate spreads. During periods of falling interest rates, our investment earnings will be lower because new investments in fixed maturity securities will likely bear lower interest rates. We may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure life insurance policies or annuities with cash value components. A majority of our annuity and certain other products have multi-year guarantees and guaranteed floors on their crediting rates. During periods of rising interest rates, we may be contractually obligated to increase the crediting rates on our contracts that reinsure annuities or life insurance policies with cash value components. We may not, however, have the ability to immediately acquire investments with interest rates sufficient to offset the increased crediting rates under our reinsurance contracts. Although we develop and maintain asset/liability management programs and procedures designed to reduce the volatility of our income when interest rates are rising or falling, significant changes in interest rates caused by factors beyond our control such as changes in governmental monetary policy or political conditions may negatively affect our interest rate spreads. Changes in interest rates may also affect our business in other ways. Lower interest rates may result in lower sales of certain insurance and investment products of our customers, which would reduce the demand for our reinsurance of these products. A prolonged economic downturn could reduce the demand for annuity and life insurance products, which could substantially reduce our revenues. A prolonged general economic downturn or poor performance of the equity and other capital markets could lower the demand for many annuity and life insurance products. Because we obtain substantially all of our revenues 28 through reinsurance arrangements that cover a portfolio of life insurance products, as well as annuities, our business would be harmed if the demand for annuities or life insurance decreased. Policyholder withdrawals or recaptures of reinsurance treaties could force us to sell investments at a loss and take a larger than anticipated charge for amortization of deferred acquisition costs. Some of the products offered by our insurance subsidiaries and some of the products offered by primary insurance companies that we reinsure allow policyholders and contract holders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. In addition, our reinsurance agreements may provide for recapture rights on the part of our insurance company customers. Recapture rights permit these customers to reassume all or a portion of the risk formerly ceded to us after an agreed upon time, usually 10 years, subject to various conditions or upon a downgrade of any of our financial strength ratings or our failure to satisfy other financial conditions. Recapture of business previously ceded does not affect premiums ceded prior to the recapture, but may result in immediate payments to our insurance company customers. In addition, when we issue a new insurance policy or annuity contract or write a reinsurance contract, we defer a portion of the related acquisition costs by establishing a deferred acquisition cost asset on the balance sheet. This asset is amortized over the expected term of the acquired business based on certain assumptions about the performance and persistency of that business and investment experience. To the extent surrender, withdrawal or recapture activity is greater than we assumed, or investment experience is worse than we assumed, we may incur a non-cash charge to write down the deferred acquisition cost asset. Any such charge may be partially offset by recapture and surrender fees. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies who may not pay amounts due to us, which could materially harm our business. We cede some of the business that we reinsure to other reinsurance companies, known as retrocessionaires. We assume the risk that the retrocessionaire will be unable to pay amounts due to us because of its own financial difficulties. The failure of our retrocessionaires to pay amounts due to us will not absolve us of our responsibility to pay ceding companies for risks that we reinsure. Failure of retrocessionaires to pay us could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Natural disasters, catastrophes and disasters caused by humans, including the threat of terrorist attacks and related events, epidemics, and pandemics may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters and terrorist attacks, as well as epidemics and pandemics, can adversely affect our business and results of operations because they accelerate mortality risk. Terrorist attacks in the United States and in other parts of the world and the threat of future attacks could have a negative effect on our business. We believe our reinsurance programs are sufficient to reasonably limit our net losses for individual life claims relating to potential future natural disasters and terrorist attacks. Our reinsurance programs, including our catastrophe coverage, limited our net losses in individual life claims relating to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks to approximately $750,000. However, the consequences of further natural disasters, terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, epidemics and pandemics are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Our Life Reinsurance International Segment subjects us to regulatory, foreign currency and other risks which may affect our business. In 2006, approximately 7% of our earned premiums came from our Life Reinsurance International Segment. Our Life Reinsurance International Segment subjects us to various risks. In addition to the regulatory and foreign currency risks we identify later in this section, these risks include: o volatility in earnings arising out of mortality swings in the initial years of operating in new markets; 29 o political and economic instability as well as armed conflict in these regions; and o uncertainty arising out of foreign government sovereignty over our international operations. We are exposed to foreign currency risk which could negatively affect our business. Our functional currency is the United States dollar. However, our U.K. subsidiaries, Scottish Re Holdings Limited and Scottish Re Limited, maintain operating expense accounts in British pounds, parts of their investment portfolio in Euros and British pounds and receive other currencies in payment of premiums. All of Scottish Re Limited's original U.S. business is settled in United States dollars, all Canadian, Latin American and certain Asia and Middle East business is converted and settled in United States dollars, and all other currencies are converted and settled in either Euros or British pounds. The results of the business recorded in Euros or British pounds are then translated to United States dollars. Scottish Re Limited attempts to limit substantial exposures to foreign currency risk, but does not actively manage currency risks. To the extent our foreign currency exposure is not properly managed or otherwise hedged, we may experience exchange losses, which in turn would lower our results of operations and harm our financial condition. Our insurance subsidiaries are highly regulated and changes in these regulations could harm our business. Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to government regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which they are licensed or authorized to do business. Governmental agencies have broad administrative power to regulate many aspects of the insurance business, which may include trade and claim practices, accounting methods, premium rates, marketing practices, advertising, acceptability of collateral for purposes of taking credit for reinsurance, policy forms, affiliate transactions, changes of control and capital adequacy. These agencies are concerned primarily with the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. Moreover, insurance laws and regulations, among other things: o establish solvency requirements, including minimum reserves and capital and surplus requirements; o limit the amount of dividends, tax distributions, inter- company loans and other payments our insurance subsidiaries can make without prior regulatory approval; o impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments we may hold; and o require assessments to pay claims of insolvent insurance companies. The NAIC continuously examines existing laws and regulations. We cannot predict the effect that any NAIC recommendations or proposed or future legislation or rule making in the United States or elsewhere may have on our financial condition or operations. If Scottish Re or any of our subsidiaries were to become subject to the laws of a new jurisdiction where Scottish Re or that subsidiary is not presently admitted, they may not be in compliance with the laws of the new jurisdiction. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could harm our financial results and operations. 30 Our ordinary shares are subject to voting and transfer limitations. Under our articles of association, our Board of Directors (or its designee) is required, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, to decline to register any transfer of ordinary shares if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares, except that Cypress Merchant B Partners II (Cayman) L.P., Cypress Merchant Banking II-A C.V., 55th Street Partners II (Cayman) L.P. and Cypress Side-by-Side (Cayman) L.P. (collectively, the "Cypress Entities") are each permitted to transfer ordinary shares to another Cypress Entity, so long as the number of ordinary shares beneficially owned directly or indirectly by the Cypress Entities in the aggregate does not exceed 24.9% of a class of our shares. With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer would result in a person (or any group of which such person is a member) beneficially owning, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of any class of our shares (24.9% in the case of the Cypress Entities), the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. Similar restrictions apply to issuances and repurchases of ordinary shares by us. Our directors (or their designee) also may, in their absolute discretion, decline to register the transfer of any ordinary shares, except for transfers of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if they have reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction or if they have reason to believe that registration of such transfer under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, under any state "blue sky" or other U.S. securities laws or under the laws of any other jurisdiction is required and such registration has not been duly effected. With respect to a transfer of ordinary shares executed on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE, if our directors have any reason to believe that such transfer may expose us, our subsidiaries or shareholders or any person insured or reinsured or proposing to be insured or reinsured by us or any of our subsidiaries to adverse tax or regulatory treatment in any jurisdiction, the directors may demand that such person surrender the ordinary shares to an agent designated by the directors, who will sell the ordinary shares on any recognized securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system, including the NYSE. After applying the proceeds of the sale toward reimbursing the transferee for the price paid for the ordinary shares, the agent will pay the remaining proceeds to certain charitable organizations designated by the directors. The proceeds of such sale may be used to reimburse the agent for its duties. A transferor of ordinary shares will be deemed to own such shares for dividend, voting and reporting purposes until a transfer of such ordinary shares has been registered on our register of members. We are authorized to request information from any holder or prospective acquirer of ordinary shares as necessary to effect registration of any such transaction, and may decline to register any such transaction if complete and accurate information is not received as requested. In addition, our articles of association generally provide that any person (or any group of which such person is a member) other than the Cypress Entities, holding directly, or by attribution, or otherwise beneficially owning our voting shares carrying 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to all of our outstanding voting shares, will have the voting rights attached to its voting shares reduced so that it may not exercise more than approximately 9.9% of such total voting rights. In addition, in the event the Cypress Entities hold directly or by attribution or otherwise beneficially own voting shares with more than 24.9% of the total voting rights of our voting shares, the voting rights of the Cypress Entities will be reduced so that they may not exercise in the aggregate more than approximately 24.9% of the total voting rights of our voting shares at any given time. Because of the attribution provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, regarding determination of beneficial ownership, this requirement may have the effect of reducing the voting rights of a shareholder whether or not such shareholder directly holds of record 10% or more of our voting shares. Further, our Board of Directors (or its designee) has the authority to request from 31 any shareholder certain information for the purpose of determining whether such shareholder's voting rights are to be reduced. Failure to respond to such a notice, or submitting incomplete or inaccurate information, gives our Board of Directors (or its designee) discretion to disregard all votes attached to such shareholder's ordinary shares. At the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on March 2, 2007, our shareholders will be asked, among other things, to vote upon a proposal to amend our articles of association to permit the Investors to hold more than 10% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, the Cypress Entities would become subject to the 10% limitation. These amendments would not be effective until the completion of the Transaction. Our articles of association make it difficult to replace directors and to effect a change of control. Our articles of association contain certain provisions that make it more difficult for our shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions may make more difficult the acquisition of control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchase, a proxy fight or otherwise, including by reason of the limitation on transfers of ordinary shares and voting rights described above. While these provisions are designed to encourage persons seeking to acquire control to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could have the effect of discouraging a prospective purchaser from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control and may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our ordinary shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Examples of provisions in our articles of association that could have such an effect include: o election of our directors is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our directors are elected each year; o the total voting power of any shareholder owning 10% or more of the total voting rights attached to our ordinary shares will be reduced to approximately 9.9% of the total voting rights of our ordinary shares; o our directors must decline to register the transfer of ordinary shares on our share register that would result in a person owning 10% or more of any class of our shares and may decline certain transfers that they believe may have adverse tax or regulatory consequences; o shareholders do not have the right to act by written consent; and o our directors have the ability to change the size of the Board of Directors. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. The Cypress Entities currently own approximately 15.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Pursuant to a shareholders' agreement, as long as the Cypress Entities continue to hold the lesser of (i) 9.9% or more of the voting power of our voting securities on an as-converted basis or (ii) 35% or more of the securities purchased on an as-converted basis, the Cypress Entities have the non-assignable right to appoint one director and one non-voting observer to our Board of Directors. The Cypress Entities' share ownership and ability to nominate persons for election to the Board of Directors might provide the Cypress Entities with significant influence over potential change in control transactions. Upon the completion of the Transaction, the Investors will initially hold securities representing approximately 68.7% of the voting power of all of our shareholders (subject to certain adjustments, if any). In addition, pursuant to the terms of a Registration Rights and Shareholders Agreement that we will enter into with the Investors upon the closing of the Transaction, the Investors will have the right to designate for election to the board the number of individuals equal to two-thirds of the authorized number of directors of the board, rounded up to the nearest whole even number. In addition, for so long as the Cypress Entities beneficially own at least 2.5% of the outstanding ordinary shares, the Cypress Entities will be entitled to nominate one individual for election to the board. The Investors' share ownership and ability to nominate a majority of persons for election to the Board of Directors would provide the Investors with significant control over change in control transactions. 32 Applicable insurance laws make it difficult to effect a change of control. Under applicable Delaware insurance laws and regulations, no person may acquire control of us, Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. or Scottish Re Life Corporation, our Delaware insurance subsidiaries, unless that person has filed a statement containing specified information with the Delaware Insurance Commissioner and approval for such acquisition is obtained. Under applicable laws and regulations, any person acquiring, directly by stock ownership or indirectly (by revocable proxy or otherwise), 10% or more of the voting stock of any other person is presumed to have acquired control of such person, and a person who beneficially acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares without obtaining the approval of the Delaware Insurance Commissioner would be in violation of Delaware's insurance holding company act and would be subject to injunctive action requiring disposition or seizure of the shares and prohibiting the voting of such shares, as well as other action determined by the Delaware Insurance Commissioner. In addition, because of our ownership of Orkney Re, Inc., our South Carolina special purpose reinsurance captive, any person acquiring control of Orkney Re, Inc., directly or indirectly through acquiring control of us, would be required to obtain approvals from the South Carolina Director of Insurance. In addition, many state insurance laws require prior notification to the state insurance department of a change in control of a non-domiciliary insurance company licensed to transact insurance in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state insurance departments to disapprove the change in control, they authorize regulatory action in the affected state if particular conditions exist such as undue market concentration. Any future transactions that would constitute a change in control of us, Scottish Re (U.S.), Inc. or Scottish Re Life Corporation may require prior notification in the states that have pre-acquisition notification laws. These prior notice and prior approval laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, including transactions that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Any change in control of Scottish Re Limited would need the approval of the U.K. Financial Services Authority, which is the body responsible for the regulation and supervision of the U.K. insurance and reinsurance industry. It may be difficult to sue or enforce judgments against us in the United States. We are a holding company organized under the laws of the Cayman Islands with its principal executive office in Bermuda. Certain of our directors and officers are residents of various jurisdictions outside the United States. All or a substantial portion of our assets and those of such directors and officers, at any one time, are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States. Although we have irrevocably agreed that we may be served with process in New York, New York with respect to actions arising out of or in connection with violations of United States Federal securities laws relating to offers and sales of ordinary shares made hereby, it could be difficult to effect service of process within the United States on our directors and officers who reside outside the United States or to recover against us or such directors and officers on judgments of United States courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Limited trading volume of our ordinary shares may contribute to its price volatility. Our ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, the average daily trading volume for our ordinary shares as reported by the NYSE was 1,229,419 ordinary shares. Risks Related to Taxation If we or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is determined to be conducting business in the United States, we could be liable for U.S. federal income taxes which could negatively affect our net income. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands with our principal executive office in Bermuda. If we or our non-U.S. subsidiaries were characterized as engaged in a trade or business in the 33 United States such company would be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profit taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business. We and our non-U.S. subsidiaries intend to conduct substantially all of our operations outside of the United States and limit our U.S. contacts, so that none of these companies should be characterized as engaged in a U.S. trade or business. However, because there are not definitive standards provided by the Code, regulations or court decisions, there is considerable uncertainty as to which activities constitute being engaged in the conduct of a trade or business within the United States and as the determination as to whether a non-U.S. corporation is engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States is essentially factual in nature, the United States Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, could contend that we and/or one or more of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, is engaged in a trade or business in the United States for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The highest marginal federal income tax rates currently are 35% for a corporation's income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business and 30% for the "branch profits" tax. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. If you are a U.S. 10% holder of a non-U.S. corporation that is a controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as a CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC's taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC's "subpart F income," even if the subpart F income is not distributed. For purposes of this discussion, the term "U.S. 10% holder" includes only U.S. Persons (as defined below) who, directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities (or through the application of certain "constructive" ownership rules, which we refer to as constructively), own 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote of the non-U.S. corporation. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is treated as a CFC if U.S. 10% holders collectively own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that corporation or the total value of all stock of that corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company if U.S. 10% holders collectively own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 25% of the total combined voting power. At the present time, our largest aggregate shareholder, the Cypress Entities, owns collectively approximately 13.7% of our ordinary shares and it is anticipated that MassMutual Capital will own approximately 34% and Cerberus will own approximately 34% of the voting power of all of our shareholders, if, as is expected, our Convertible Shares are issued. In order to lessen the risk that our direct or indirect shareholders could be required to include our subpart F income in their U.S federal gross income, our articles of association currently prohibit the ownership by any person of shares that would equal or exceed 10% (the "10% Limit") (or in the case of the Cypress Entities that would exceed 24.9%) of any class of the issued and outstanding Scottish Re shares and provide a "voting cutback" that would, in certain circumstances, reduce the voting power with respect to Scottish Re shares to the extent necessary to prevent the Cypress Entities from owning more than 24.9% of the voting power of Scottish Re, and any other person owning more than 9.9% of the voting power of Scottish Re (the "Second 10% Limit). If, as is expected to be the case, our Convertible Shares are issued our articles of association will be amended to exclude MassMutual Capital and Cerberus from the 10% Limit and Second 10% Limit and to subject the Cypress Entities to the 10% Limit and Second 10% Limit. We believe, although not free from doubt, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, that because of the dispersion of our share ownership (other than with respect to the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and Cerberus) and the provisions of our articles of association restricting the transfer, issuance and voting power of our shares that no U.S. Person (other than certain potential U.S. affiliates of the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus) should be a U.S. 10% holder of Scottish Re; however, we cannot be certain of this result because of factual and legal uncertainties. In addition, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of the provisions in our organizational documents and a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person will not be characterized as a U.S. 10% holder. If one or more U.S. Persons owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of our voting stock were to acquire separately or in the aggregate 25% of the voting power or value of our stock, our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries would be treated as CFCs. If the Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital (a U.S. Person) will own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) more than 25% (but less than 50%) of our voting stock and each of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries should be 34 characterized as a CFC. Scottish Re and its other (non-insurance) non-U.S. subsidiaries would be characterized as CFCs if U.S. Persons were to acquire more than 50% of the voting power or value of our shares. In either case, any U.S. 10% holder would be required to include in its gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes its pro-rata share of the subpart F income of each of those entities characterized as a CFC. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries related person insurance income. If U.S. Persons (as defined below) (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) own collectively (by voting power or value) 25% or more of our shares (as is expected to be the case), then any U.S. Person who (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) owns any of our shares on the last day of any taxable year would be required to include its pro-rata share of the related person insurance income ("RPII") of one or more of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles (i.e., Orkney Re II plc or Ballantyne Re plc) in its ordinary gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, determined as described below unless one of the RPII exceptions described in the next paragraph is applicable. The RPII rules will not apply, however, and the income inclusion described above will not be required with respect to RPII earned by any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles for any taxable year, if either (i) direct or indirect insureds, and persons related to such insureds, do not own (directly or indirectly through U.S. or non-U.S. entities), 20% or more of the voting power or value of the stock of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary or special purpose vehicle (the "20% RPII Ownership Exception") or (ii) the RPII of such non-U.S. insurance subsidiary or special purpose vehicle, determined on a gross basis, does not equal or exceed 20% of its gross insurance income in any taxable year (the "20% RPII Gross Income Exception"). Qualification for these exceptions is determined on an entity-by-entity basis. In addition, the RPII rules do not apply to any RPII earned by Scottish Annuity and Life International Insurance Company (Bermuda) Ltd. and Scottish Re Life (Bermuda) Limited, which have each elected to be taxed as U.S. corporations. We believe that, prior to the issuance of the Convertible Shares, and if they are not issued, our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and our special purpose vehicles should satisfy the 20% RPII Ownership Exception and the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception. However, if the Convertible Shares are issued, then because risks underwritten by affiliates of MassMutual Capital are indirectly reinsured by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles, immediately following the issuance of the Convertible Shares our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries will not meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception and it is likely that one or more of our special purpose vehicles will not meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception. If, in a year in which it failed to meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception, any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles also failed to meet the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception, then U.S. Persons owning (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) our shares would be subject to the RPII income inclusion rules, and could be required to include RPII in their U.S. federal gross income as described below. RPII is, generally, underwriting premium (and related investment income) of a non-U.S. insurance company that is attributable to the insurance or reinsurance of policies under which the direct or indirect insureds are (i) U.S. Persons that (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) own any shares of such non-U.S. insurance company or (ii) persons that are in control of, controlled by or under common control with U.S. Persons that (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) own the non-U.S. insurance company (such as MassMutual Capital's affiliates if the Convertible Shares are issued). Although no assurances can be given, we believe that if the Convertible Shares are issued, our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and our special purpose vehicles should qualify for the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception immediately following the issuance of the Convertible Shares, provided we do not generate substantial additional RPII with respect to our shareholders other than MassMutual Capital in 2007. Additionally, we believe that our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and our special purpose vehicles should qualify for that exception in the future, provided we effectively manage the gross amount of RPII generated with respect to our shareholders. Under the securities purchase agreement that we entered into with MassMutual Capital and Cerberus, during the period beginning on November 26, 2006 and ending on the date of issuance of the Convertible 35 Shares, we and MassMutual Capital and Cerberus have agreed to cooperate and use commercially reasonable efforts to take such actions as may be appropriate to reduce the anticipated amount of RPII that may be realized by any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries in the tax year beginning January 1, 2007 in a manner that is reasonably acceptable to us and to each Investor. In addition, the MassMutual Capital and Cerberus have indicated to us that they do not intend to cause the gross RPII of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles to equal or exceed 20% of each such company's gross insurance income in any tax year. There can be no assurance, however, that this exception will be met. Avoidance of the RPII income inclusion rules depends upon numerous factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and special purpose vehicles, that are not solely within our control. If, for any taxable year, (i) one or more of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles meet the 25% ownership threshold described above (as is expected to be the case) and fail to meet the 20% RPII Ownership Exception (as is expected to be the case if the Convertible Shares are issued) and (ii) do not qualify for the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception described above, each U.S. Person who (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) owned our shares on the last day of such taxable year would be required to include RPII in their U.S. federal gross income (regardless of whether such income is distributed), which may materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. The amount of RPII includable in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes by each such U.S. Person would equal the U.S. Person's pro-rata share of the relevant entity's RPII, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons that are holders of shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on that date (taking into account any differences existing with respect to the distribution rights applicable to different classes of shares). The amount includible in gross income would be limited by each such U.S. Person's share of the non-U.S. insurance subsidiary's or special purpose vehicle's earnings and profits for the tax year, as reduced by the U.S. Person's share, if any, of certain prior-year deficits in earnings and profits. Such amount would be taxable at ordinary income rates. Moreover, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. If a U.S. Person were to own more than 50% of our shares (either directly or indirectly), our insurance subsidiaries would be treated as controlled by the U.S. Person for purposes of the RPII rules, and the reinsurance of their business by our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles would generate RPII. In that event, the 20% RPII Gross Income Exception would not be met by any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries or special purpose vehicles (as their business is currently conducted). Our Articles of Association do not and will not prohibit any person from acquiring more than 50% of our shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities). MassMutual Capital and Cerberus have indicated to us that they have no present intention of taking any action that would reasonably be expected to result in the ownership of more than 50% of our shares by a U.S. Person (either directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities). There can be no assurance, however, that this will not occur and that U.S. Persons owning our shares (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) will not have RPII income inclusions. For these purposes "U.S. Person" means: (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. If a partnership owns any of our shares, the application of the RPII rules to any of its partners will generally depend upon the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. If you are a partner of a partnership that owns our shares, you should consult your tax advisor. The RPII provisions have never been interpreted by the courts or the Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of 36 RPII by the IRS, the courts or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The RPII provisions include the grant of authority to the Treasury Department to prescribe "such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purpose of this subsection including regulations preventing the avoidance of this subsection through cross insurance arrangements or otherwise." Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to us is uncertain. In addition, we cannot be certain that the amount of RPII or the amounts of the RPII inclusions for any particular RPII shareholder, if any, will not be subject to adjustment based upon subsequent IRS examination. Shareholders are advised to consult with their tax advisors regarding the application of these provisions. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains if any. Under section 1248 of the Internal Revenue Code, any gain from the sale or exchange of the shares in a non-U.S. corporation by a U.S. Person, which was a U.S. 10% holder at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition when the corporation was a CFC, may be treated as a dividend to the extent of the CFC's earnings and profits (determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) during the period that the shareholder held the shares (with certain adjustments). We believe, although not free from doubt, based upon information made available to us regarding our existing shareholder base, the dispersion of our share ownership (other than with respect to the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and Cerberus) and the provisions of our articles of association restricting transfer, issuance and voting power of our shares that no U.S. Person (other than certain potential U.S. affiliates of the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus) should be characterized a U.S. 10% holder of Scottish Re and/or its non-U.S. subsidiaries, although we cannot be certain of the preceding result because of factual and legal uncertainties. To the extent it is the case that we have no U.S. 10% holders (other than certain potential U.S. affiliates of the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus), the application of Code section 1248 under the regular CFC rules should not apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares (other than possibly to certain potential U.S. affiliates of the Cypress Entities, and if our Convertible Shares are issued, MassMutual Capital and certain potential U.S. affiliates of Cerberus). It is possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge. Internal Revenue Code section 1248 also applies to the sale or exchange of shares in a non-U.S. corporation if the non-U.S. corporation would be treated as a CFC for RPII purposes regardless of whether the shareholder is a U.S. 10% holder or whether the 20% RPII gross income exception or the 20% RPII ownership exceptions are met. Existing proposed regulations do not address whether Internal Revenue Code section 1248 would apply if a non-U.S. corporation is not a CFC but the non-U.S. corporation has a subsidiary that is a CFC and that would be taxed as an insurance company if it were a domestic corporation. We believe, however, that this application of Code section 1248 under the RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because we will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot be certain, however, that the IRS will not interpret the proposed regulations in a contrary manner or that the U.S. Treasury Department will not amend the proposed regulations to provide that these rules will apply to dispositions of our shares. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S tax-exempt organization if either we are a controlled foreign corporation and the tax-exempt shareholder is a U.S. 10% holder or there is RPII and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. persons should be allocated our insurance income, potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisors. 37 U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if we are considered to be a passive foreign investment company. If we are considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investment in our shares could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning ordinary shares, such individual's heirs or estate would not be entitled to a "step-up" in the basis of the ordinary shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC for a taxable year if 75% or more of its income constitutes passive income or 50% or more of its assets produce passive income. Passive income generally includes interest, dividends and other investment income. Passive income does not, however, include income derived in the active conduct of an insurance business by a corporation that is predominantly engaged in an insurance business. This exception is intended to ensure that income derived by a bona fide insurance company is not treated as passive income, except to the extent such income is attributable to financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of the insurance business. The PFIC provisions also contain a look-through rule under which a foreign corporation shall be treated as if it "received directly its proportionate share of the income" and as if it "held its proportionate share of the assets" of any other corporation in which it owns at least 25% of the value of the stock. We believe for purposes of the PFIC rules, that each of our U.S., Bermuda, Irish, U.K. and Guernsey insurance subsidiaries should be characterized as predominantly engaged in an active insurance business and is unlikely to have financial reserves in excess of the reasonable needs of its insurance business in each year of operations. Accordingly, the income and assets of these companies should be treated as active. Further, we expect that the active income and assets of these companies should comprise more than 25% of our gross income and more than 50% of our assets for 2007 and we expect this should be the case for the foreseeable future. As a result, we believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections that may have a material adverse impact on us or our shareholders or require us to restructure certain of our business operations in the future. In addition, it is possible that similar legislative proposals could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse impact on us, or our shareholders. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. persons would be required to include in their gross income the subpart F income or the RPII of a controlled foreign corporation are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. 38 If we do not receive further undertakings from the Cayman Islands, we may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands in the future. Scottish Re and our Cayman Islands subsidiaries, Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd. and The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., have received undertakings from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended (1999 Revision), that until the year 2028 with respect to Scottish Re and Scottish Annuity & Life Insurance Company (Cayman) Ltd., and until the year 2024 with respect to The Scottish Annuity Company (Cayman) Ltd., (1) no subsequently enacted Cayman Islands law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries and (2) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any shares, debentures or other obligations of Scottish Re and its Cayman Islands subsidiaries. We could be subject to Cayman Islands taxes after the applicable dates. If Bermuda law changes, we may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future. Bermuda currently imposes no income tax on corporations. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under The Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966 of Bermuda, has assured us that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries until March 28, 2016. Scottish Re or any of our Bermuda subsidiaries could be subject to Bermuda taxes after that date. The impact of letters of commitment from Bermuda and the Cayman Islands to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to eliminate harmful tax practices may impact us negatively. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD's report dated April 18, 2002, and updated as of June 2004 and September 2006, Bermuda and the Cayman Islands were not listed as uncooperative tax haven jurisdictions because each had previously committed itself to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. Impact of adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Interpretation No. 48 ("FIN 48"), "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes". FIN 48 prescribes detailed guidance for the financial statement recognition, measurement and disclosure of uncertain tax positions recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with FASB Statement No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Tax positions must meet a "more likely than not" recognition threshold at the effective date to be recognized upon the adoption of FIN 48 and in subsequent periods. FIN 48 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006 and the provisions of FIN 48 will be applied to all tax positions upon initial adoption. The cumulative effect of applying the provisions of FIN 48 will be reported as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings for that fiscal year. We have not completed our evaluation of the effect of adoption of FIN 48. However, due to the fact that we have established tax positions in previously filed tax returns and are expected to take tax positions in future tax returns that will have effect in the financial statements, the adoption of FIN 48 may have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. 39 Issuance of the Convertible Shares will limit our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards. As of December 31, 2006, we had estimated net operating loss carry forwards, or NOLs, of approximately $817.3 million of which $695.9 million is attributable to the U.S. $93.0 is attributable to Ireland, $25.4 million is attributable to the U.K. and $3.0 million is attributable to Singapore. The U.K., Singapore and Irish net operating losses have an unlimited carry forward period. The U.S. NOLs may be used to offset future taxable income and thereby reduce our U.S. federal income taxes otherwise payable. Section 382 of the Code, imposes an annual limit on the ability of a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" to use its NOLs to reduce its tax liability. The issuance of the Convertible Shares will cause us to undergo an ownership change. In which event, we would not be able to use our pre-ownership-change NOLs in excess of the limitation imposed by section 382 of the Code. The Code section 382 NOL limitation following the issuance of the Convertible Shares is calculated by multiplying our value as of the date of the issuance by the federal long term tax exempt rate (currently 4.18%). This may result in a substantial increase in the amount of U.S. federal income tax payable by our U.S. consolidated life insurance subsidiary group. This would also result in the write-down of our associated gross deferred tax asset for GAAP purposes. However, we have already provided a full valuation allowance against the related gross deferred tax asset therefore such a write-down would not materially impact the net balance carried on the balance sheet. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 