ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Janus’ revenues and profits are largely dependent on the value of assets under management. Almost all of Janus’ revenues are dependent on the total value and composition of assets under management. Any decrease in the value or amount of assets under management will cause a decline in revenues and operating results. Assets under management may decline for various reasons, many of which are not under Janus’ control. For any period in which revenues decline, operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because of the high percentage of fixed costs. Factors that could cause assets under management and revenues to decline include the following: · Declines in the equity markets. Janus’ assets under management are concentrated in the U.S. equity markets and, to a lesser extent, in the international equity markets. As such, declines in the equity markets or the market segments in which Janus’ investment products are concentrated will cause assets under management to decrease. · Changes in interest rates and defaults. In the case of money market and other fixed income investment products, which invest in high-quality short-term money market instruments, as well as other fixed income securities, the value of the assets may decline as a result of changes in interest rates, an issuer’s actual or perceived creditworthiness or an issuer’s ability to meet its obligations. · Redemptions and other withdrawals. Investors (in response to adverse market conditions, inconsistent investment performance, the pursuit of other investment opportunities, regulatory investigations, civil lawsuits or otherwise) may reduce their investments in specific Janus investment products or in the market segments in which Janus’ investment products are concentrated. · Political and general economic risks. The investment products managed by Janus may invest significant funds in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. International markets, particularly emerging markets, are often smaller, may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. · A concentration in the growth equity discipline. Although down from prior years, approximately 40% of Janus’ assets under management were concentrated in the growth equity investment discipline at December 31, 2006. During periods where the general investing public does not favor 7 the growth equity discipline, Janus may experience a reduction of gross sales and an increase in gross redemptions. · Relative investment performance. Janus’ investment products are often judged on their performance as compared to the benchmark indices, peer groups or on an absolute return basis. Any period of prolonged underperformance of investment products may result in the loss of existing assets and impact our ability to attract new assets. Janus’ revenues may fluctuate from variability in performance fees. Certain INTECH institutional accounts are subject to performance fees which vary based on each account’s investment performance as compared to the benchmark index. In addition, certain mutual funds will become subject to performance fees in 2007, which will be determined based on each fund’s performance as compared to the benchmark index. The measurement period for mutual fund performance fees began in 2006 and the first performance adjustment will be recorded in the first quarter 2007. Janus’ results are dependent on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. The investment management business is highly dependent on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled, and often highly specialized, technical, executive, sales and management personnel. The market for investment and sales professionals is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by the frequent movement of portfolio managers, analysts and salespersons among different firms. Any cost reduction initiative, changes to management structure, shifts in corporate culture, changes to corporate governance authority, or adjustments or reductions to compensation (including, but not limited to, the implementation of the new portfolio managers’ compensation program that is tied to the Company’s revenue) may result in employee dissatisfaction and could impact Janus’ ability to retain key personnel. If Janus is unable to retain key personnel, it could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, portfolio managers and salespersons often maintain relationships with their clients. As such, the departure of a portfolio manager or salesperson may cause the loss of clients, which could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition. Janus is dependent upon third-party distribution channels to access clients and potential clients. Janus’ ability to market its investment products is significantly dependent on access to the client base of insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, securities firms, broker-dealers, banks and other distribution channels. These companies generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, Janus. Further, the private account business uses referrals from financial planners, professional investment advisers and other professionals. Janus cannot be certain that it will continue to have access to these third-party distribution channels or have an opportunity to offer some or all of its investment products through these channels. The inability to access clients through third-party distribution channels could have a material adverse effect on Janus’ ability to maintain or increase assets under management, its financial condition, results of operations or business prospects. INTECH’s investment process is highly dependent on key employees and proprietary software. Over the last two years, INTECH has become a more significant part of Janus’ investment management business, representing 37% of total assets under management and 22% of total Investment Management segment revenue. INTECH’s investment process is based on complex and proprietary mathematical models, which seek to outperform various indices by capitalizing on market volatility while controlling trading costs and overall risk relative to the index. The maintenance of such models for current products and the development of new products are highly dependent on certain key INTECH employees. A succession plan is in place in the event these key employees were unable to perform their current duties or if they terminate employment; however, there is no guarantee that such plan will be successful. If this plan is not successful, or if the mathematical investment strategies fail to produce the intended results, 8 INTECH may not be able to maintain the historical level of strong investment performance and clients may redeem assets, which could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition. The regulatory environment in which Janus operates has changed and may continue to change. Janus may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Compliance with these and other new reporting and operational requirements and regulations has increased significantly and may continue to increase the cost of operating mutual funds and related investment products, which could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition (See Item 1, Business — Regulation). Janus is named as a defendant in class action lawsuits and other related litigation. Janus, certain of the Janus funds, the Janus fund’s trustees and certain (past and present) officers of Janus are named as defendants in class action lawsuits and other related litigation (See Item 8, Note 16). These lawsuits seek unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. Janus is unable to estimate the range of potential losses that would be incurred if the plaintiffs in any of these actions were to prevail, or to determine the total potential effect that they may have on Janus’ results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Any settlement or judgment on the merits of these actions could have a material adverse effect on Janus’ liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Janus’ business is vulnerable to failures in support systems and customer service functions. The ability to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process shareowner transactions and provide reports and other customer service to the shareowners of funds and other investment products managed by Janus is essential to Janus’ operations. Any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing shareowner transactions or providing reports, and any inadequacies in other customer service could alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against Janus. Janus’ customer service capabilities, as well as Janus’ ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process shareowner transactions and reports, is dependent on communication and information systems and services provided by third-party vendors. Although Janus has established disaster recovery plans, these systems could suffer failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and the backup procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions. Additionally, Janus places significant reliance on its automated customer service systems, thereby increasing the related risks if such systems were to fail. A failure of these systems could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition. Janus’ business is dependent on investment advisory agreements that are subject to termination, non-renewal or reductions in fees. Janus derives substantially all of its revenue and net income from investment advisory agreements with mutual funds and other investment products. The termination of, or failure to renew, one or more of these agreements or the reduction of the fee rates applicable to such agreements, could have a material adverse effect on revenues and profits. With respect to investment advisory agreements with mutual funds, these agreements may be terminated by either party with notice, or terminated in the event of an “assignment” (as defined in the 1940 Act), and must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of each fund’s board of directors or trustees, or its shareowners, as required by law. In addition, the board of directors or trustees of certain funds and separate accounts generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason and without penalty. 9 The Printing and Fulfillment segment operates in a highly competitive industry. Rapid Solutions Group (“RSG”), the operating business of the Printing and Fulfillment segment, operates in a highly competitive industry. Competitive factors include not only the speed and accuracy with which RSG can meet customer needs, but also the price and quality of such services. Many of RSG’s competitors have an advantage in the fact that they are larger, have greater resources and offer a wider range of services. If RSG is unsuccessful in this market, it may not be able to retain current clients or grow the business through the addition of new clients, which could have an adverse effect on Janus’ results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 