Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to our Business Our business model has changed in significant ways, several times since our inception in response to a constantly changing and evolving market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects, and may expose us to increased risks and uncertainties. Our business has evolved substantially over time through organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We started operating with our current business model in June 2006, when we launched our Energy Efficiency Services business in the commercial and industrial market, and we have since modified that model by expanding our service offerings and markets. Accordingly, we have only a limited history of generating revenues under our current business model, and the future revenue potential of our current business model in the rapidly evolving energy efficiency solutions market is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history under our current business model, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business, strategies, performance and prospects or an investment in our common stock. 9 Table of Contents Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history under our current business model and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies with new business models. To address these risks and uncertainties, among other things, we must do the following: · maintain and expand our current relationships and develop new relationships with utilities, government agencies and energy service companies, or “ESCOs,” serving government and educational institutions and commercial and industrial businesses, property owners and managers; · maintain, enhance and add to our existing energy efficiency solutions; · execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; · attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · respond to competitive developments. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, accomplishing many of these goals might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any predictions about our future operating results may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history under our current business model. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced annual losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception and we currently have an accumulated deficit. We must continue to increase sales while maintaining or improving our margins to operate profitably and sustain positive operating cash flows. We may be required to reduce the prices of our services in order to increase sales. If we reduce prices, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to achieve acceptable profit margins. As we strive to grow our business, we have spent and expect to continue to spend significant funds for: (i) general corporate purposes, including working capital, marketing, recruiting and hiring additional personnel; and (ii) acquisitions. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if the gross margins we earn on our sales are lower than expected or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve profitability in the future or if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain it. As we grow, our working capital requirements are likely to increase. We may need to increase the size of our bank working capital line to support this increased working capital. If in the future we cannot obtain additional bank financing, or if we were to lose our current working capital line, it could limit our ability to grow our business to the point that it is profitable on a consistent basis. In addition, because of our negative cash flow, we have funded our operations through the issuance of common and preferred stock and debt. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow turns positive on a consistent basis may depend on our ability to continue to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt. If we are not successful in raising any needed additional funds, we might have to significantly scale back or delay our growth plans, or sell or shut down some of our businesses. Any reduction or delay in our growth plans could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace, take advantage of business opportunities and develop or enhance our services and technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents The current economic uncertainty and turmoil in the equity and credit markets could adversely impact our clients, diminish the demand for our services and products, and harm our operations and financial performance. The energy efficiency solutions marketplace has experienced rapid evolution and growth, but the current uncertainty regarding the economy and new regulations has increased the reluctance of some of our commercial and industrial customers to invest in energy efficiency projects, even those that offer strong ROIs, resulting in a material reduction in our sales to this market. We are not sure if conditions in this market will worsen or improve during coming months or how customers will react as the economy continues its recovery. The economic conditions may cause reductions or elimination of utility or government energy efficiency incentive programs used to partially fund the costs of customer projects. In addition, increased competition as a result of the slowdown in the construction industry may result in lower sales, reduced likelihood of profitability, and diminished cash flow to us. Further, the sales of our energy efficiency solutions are made on the basis of contracts that often permit our customers to terminate the engagement prior to completion rather than long-term purchase commitments and consequently our clients may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments in response to economic pressures with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. Whether in response to an economic downturn affecting an industry or a client’s specific business including its bankruptcy or insolvency, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our clients’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, impact our working capital, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. It is difficult for us to estimate our future quarterly operating results. A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities to be lower in the first two quarters and higher in the last two quarters of each year. The concentration of earnings and cash flow in the fourth quarter is primarily due to our clients’ budget cycles. Further, many of our clients purchase our energy efficiency solutions on the basis of cancellable short-term agreements for projects that can be completed in a matter of weeks rather than long-term purchase commitments. Consequently, we do not have a constant and predictable stream of revenue from those clients. Additionally, because a few large public sector projects are often responsible for a significant portion of our revenue, the level of activity, initial project delays or gaps between projects have historically led to significant fluctuations of revenue on an irregular basis throughout the fiscal year. Also, many utility contracts are subject to changes in budget allocations for the programs. We have already experienced a situation where funds allocated for a program we were operating under were diverted to other uses with no warning, reducing our expected revenue under this program. As a result, we may be unable to forecast our revenue accurately, and a failure to meet our revenue or expense forecasts could have an immediate and negative impact on the market price of our common stock. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. The energy efficiency solutions market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify as the energy efficiency solutions market continues to evolve. We face strong competition primarily from other providers of energy efficiency solutions, local electrical and mechanical contractors and engineering firms, lighting and lighting fixture manufacturers and lighting fixture distributors. We compete primarily on the basis of client service and support, quality and scope of services and products, cost of services and products, ability to service clients on a national level, name recognition and financial resources and performance track record for services provided. 11 Table of Contents In addition to our existing competitors, new competitors such as large national or multinational engineering and/or construction companies could enter our markets. Many of these current and potential competitors are better capitalized than we are, have longer operating histories and strong existing client relationships, greater name recognition, and more extensive engineering and sales and marketing capabilities. Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy efficiency solutions that may be potentially more attractive to clients than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy efficiency solutions at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. If our ESCO clients internally develop sufficient capabilities to perform their own work they may no longer outsource work to us. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain clients, require us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive, and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. A significant number of our public sector contracts require surety bonds to guarantee our performance and payment to our suppliers and subcontractors. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Our current surety does not require that we post collateral, guarantees, agreements of indemnity and letters of credit to secure performance and surety bonds, but due to our continuing losses this could change. In this event, our available collateral may be insufficient to support our increasing need for surety bonds, which could preclude us from being able to bid for certain contracts and successfully contract with certain customers. If we are unable to obtain surety bonds, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our success is largely dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineers, salespeople and other skilled personnel, and the loss of their services or our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business or to maintain profitable operations. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other senior managers. The loss of the service of executive officers and other senior managers or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, implement our strategy or maintain profitable operations. In addition, to execute our growth strategy and maintain our margins, we must attract and retain highly qualified engineers, other skilled personnel and an effective sales force that can accurately price our clients’ energy efficiency solution contracts. Competition for hiring these individuals is intense, especially with regard to engineers specializing in the energy efficiency solutions market. If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified engineers and other skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. We depend upon a limited number of clients in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. Historically, our dependence on individual key clients varied from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility projects. During 2011, approximately 54% of our consolidated billings was derived from just four customers, while during 2010, one client of our utility program management business accounted for approximately 17% of our consolidated revenue. We expect utility program management, large retrofit projects and large renewable energy projects to become 12 Table of Contents a greater component of our total revenue in the near term. As a result, we may experience more client concentration in any given future period. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any given future period. Failure of our subcontractors to properly and effectively perform their services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our energy efficiency solutions. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality, reliable energy efficiency solutions in a timely manner, which in part requires the proper removal and installation of lighting, mechanical and electrical systems and other products by our contractors and subcontractors upon which we depend. A significant portion of our energy efficiency solutions are installed by contractors or subcontractors. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in our energy efficiency solutions caused by improper installation could cause us to have difficulty retaining current clients and attracting new clients. Such delays could also result in additional costs that could affect the profit margin of our projects. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. If we cannot find investors to provide the equity for projects to be developed by our new Asset Development and Management business the growth of this business will be limited. We do not have sufficient capital to make significant investments in projects such as the Zemel Road landfill-gas to electricity project, nor can we take advantage of the tax benefits generated by these types of investments. Therefore, to grow this business we will need to find third parties willing to provide the equity for these projects. If we are unable to find such investors the future growth of this business will be limited. If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience operation interruptions, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our clients and maintain our financial and accounting records. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain and enhance our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, disrupt our business and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to client demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; · employee or other theft; · attacks by computer viruses or hackers; · power outages; and · computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, client dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Product liability and personal injury claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability and personal injury claims in the event that our energy efficiency solutions fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since the majority of our products use electricity, it is possible that the products we sell could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Because the products we sell often incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or materially adversely affect our client relations. Further, we face exposure to personal injury claims in the event that an individual is injured as a result of our negligence. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability or personal injury claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials and at times requires that our contractors or subcontractors work in hazardous conditions, either of which could give rise to a claim against us. When we retrofit a client’s facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls, or PCBs. Our work may also require the removal of asbestos or asbestos containing materials. We utilize licensed and insured hazardous wastes disposal companies to remove and/or dispose of such components. Failure to properly handle, remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us. Further, our workers are sometimes required to work in hazardous environments that present a risk of serious personal injury which could result in claims against us. A successful personal injury claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, our operations and profitability could be adversely affected. We intend to undertake a number of strategies in an effort to grow our revenue. If we are successful, our revenue growth may place significant strain on our current resources. To properly manage any future revenue growth, we must continue to improve our management, operational, administrative, accounting and financial reporting systems and expand, train and manage our employee base, which may involve significant expenditures and increased operating costs. Due to our limited resources and experience, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and adequately train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, the quality of our client care may suffer, we may experience client dissatisfaction, reduced future revenue or increased warranty claims, and our expenses could substantially and disproportionately increase. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our growth may be impaired and our current business may suffer if we do not successfully address risks associated with any future acquisitions that we may make. Our future growth may depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully identify, acquire and operate other complementary businesses. Any acquisition contemplated or completed by us may result in adverse short term effects on our reported results of operation; divert management’s attention; introduce risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; cause the incurrence of additional debt; cause the issuance of additional equity; or introduce contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, some or all of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, often an acquired company’s performance is largely dependent on a few key people, particularly in smaller companies. If these key people leave the company, become less focused on the business or less motivated to make the business successful after the acquisition, the performance of the acquired company and our combined business may suffer. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards will be subject to additional limitation, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carry forwards attributable to the period prior to such change. We have sold or otherwise issued shares of our common stock in various transactions sufficient to constitute an ownership change, including our public offering in 2009 and the conversion of all of our outstanding preferred stock and the conversion of all of our outstanding convertible notes. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry forwards, which amounted to $95 million as of December 31, 2011, to offset U.S. federal taxable income will be subject to limitations, which will likely result in increased future tax liability. In addition, future shifts in our ownership, including transactions in which we may engage, may cause additional ownership changes, which could have the effect of imposing additional limitations on our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry forwards. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The future trading market for our common stock may not be active on a consistent basis and the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Trading in our common stock has been limited and, at times, volatile since our shares were listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market in February 2008. The trading volume of our common stock in the future depends in part on our ability to increase our revenue and reduce or eliminate our operating losses. If we are unable to achieve these goals, the trading market for our common stock may be negatively affected, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may also fluctuate as a result of: · variations in our operating results; · announcements by us, our competitors or others of significant business developments, changes in client relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; · analysts’ earnings estimates, ratings and research reports; · the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; 15 Table of Contents · speculation in the press; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions or acquisitions; · actions by institutional and other stockholders; · recruitment or departure of key personnel; or · domestic and international economic factors and trends, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. The stock markets, in general, periodically experience volatility that is sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline; in particular, you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the public offering price. In the past, following a period of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. Because of the potential volatility of our common stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by cyclical factors outside of our control. In addition, we recognize revenue on many of our contracts once the project is substantially complete, resulting in intermittent periods of fluctuating revenue. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter in the future. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, these fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations and/or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock falls significantly we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering us downgrade their estimates or evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our Company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Due to the concentration of holdings of our stock, a limited number of investors may be able to control matters requiring common stockholder approval or could cause our stock price to decline through future sales because they beneficially own a large percentage of our common stock. There were 23,975,651 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 14, 2012, of which a total of 10 investors, including members of our Board and executive management, beneficially own in the 16 Table of Contents aggregate approximately 60%. As a result of their significant ownership, these investors may have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors, a sale of substantially all of our assets, a merger between us and another entity or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Also, in the event of a sale of our business, these investors could be able to seek to receive a control premium to the exclusion of other common stockholders. A significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock, including the shares beneficially owned by these holders, can be sold in the public market from time to time, subject to limitations imposed by federal securities laws. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares of common stock by these investors or other stockholders in the public market or due to the perception that these sales could occur. This could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our equity securities or for you to sell your shares if you choose to do so. The large concentration of our shares held by this small group of stockholders could result in increased volatility in our stock price due to the limited number of shares available in the market. Raising additional capital or consummation of additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could dilute your ownership interest. We may find it necessary to raise capital again sometime in the future or to consummate additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities. If we raise additional funds in the future through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution of their present equity ownership position and voting rights. Depending on the number of shares issued and the terms and conditions of the issuance, new equity securities could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Depending on the terms, common stock holders may not have approval rights with respect to such issuances. Provisions of our charter and by-laws, in particular our “blank check” preferred stock, and in the Delaware General Corporation Law may prevent or discourage an acquisition of our Company that would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our charter and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company, even if a change-in-control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon those terms and conditions, and having those rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine. In the past, we have issued preferred stock with dividend and liquidation preferences over our common stock, and with certain approval rights not accorded to our common stock, and which was convertible into shares of our common stock at a price lower than the market price of our common stock. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock we may issue in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in pursuing possible additional equity financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of our common stock. In addition, the price that future investors may be willing to pay for our common stock may be lower due to the conversion price and exercise price granted to investors in any such private financing. 17 Table of Contents In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions, including the application of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally restricts our ability to engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of our capital stock. Our Board of Directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act, and rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed substantial requirements on public companies, including with respect to public disclosure, internal control, corporate governance practices and other matters. Our management and other personnel are devoting substantial amounts of time and resources to comply with these evolving laws, regulations and standards. Moreover, these laws, regulations and standards have significantly increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we could incur significant costs to remediate any material weaknesses we identify through these efforts. We currently are evaluating and monitoring development with respect to these evolving laws, regulations and standards, and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These new regulatory requirements may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities, which could harm our business prospects and could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 