ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent public accounting firm has issued an opinion on our consolidated financial statements that states that the consolidated financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and further states that our recurring losses from operations, stockholders’ deficit and inability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our obligations and sustain our operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our plans concerning these matters are discussed in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and Note 2 to the accompanying audited consolidated financial statements. Our future is dependent on our ability to execute our plans successfully or otherwise address these matters. If we fail to do so for any reason, we would not be able to continue as a going concern and could potentially be forced to seek relief through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial position. We currently have and will continue to have for the foreseeable future, a substantial amount of indebtedness. Our indebtedness has increased over time and may increase in the future. As of May 3, 2009, we had an aggregate principal amount of approximately $80.0 million in outstanding debt. If cash flow from operations is not sufficient to meet our working capital needs and capital requirements, we may need to incur additional indebtedness. Our outstanding indebtedness will also require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments. If we do not increase our revenue, we could have difficulty making required payments on our indebtedness. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise 11 Table of Contents obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we fail to comply with the various requirements of our indebtedness, we would be in default, which would permit the holders of our indebtedness to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and could cause defaults under any indebtedness we may incur in the future. Any default under our indebtedness would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our substantial indebtedness may: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • limit our ability to use our cash flow, use our available financings to the fullest extent possible, or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions; and • cause our business to go into bankruptcy or cause our business to fail. General economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance, which may affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may, among other things: • seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets, and the documentation governing any future financing may contain covenants that limit or restrict our strategic, operating or financing activities; • attempt to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; • attempt to sell selected assets; • reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or • reduce or delay planned research and development expenditures. These measures may not be successful, may not be sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness and may harm our business and prospects. In addition, any financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available, or available on economically favorable terms. The convertible notes we issued in March 2007 must be repaid in cash in May 2010, unless they are redeemed by us or converted into shares of our common stock at an earlier date, which is unlikely to occur if the price of our common stock does not exceed the conversion price, or they are exchanged for convertible notes with a longer maturity. On May 15, 2010, we will be required to repay in full the $49.9 million principal amount outstanding on our notes (the “2010 Notes”) as of May 3, 2009, unless the holders of the 2010 Notes elect to convert them into shares of our common stock before the repayment date, the 2010 Notes are otherwise redeemed by us or the holders of the 2010 Notes choose to exchange them for convertible notes with a longer maturity. The conversion price is $15.00 for the 2010 Notes, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. On July 6, 2009, the last reported sale price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market was $1.32 per share. If the price of our common stock does not rise above the applicable conversion price prior to maturity, conversion of the 2010 Notes is unlikely and we would be required to repay the principal amounts of the 2010 Notes in cash. In that event, we may not have enough cash to meet our repayment obligations and we would be in default under the 2010 Notes, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, our auditors have expressed in their report on our 12 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements that there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In May 2009, we filed a Schedule TO and registration statement on Form S-4 for a proposed exchange offer of our 2010 Notes for a new series of convertible notes with a longer maturity. We filed amendments to both the Schedule TO and the registration statement on June 23, 2009. We plan to commence the exchange offer shortly following the filing of this Form 10-K. If the proposed exchange offer is unsuccessful, we will have a substantial amount of debt due in full in May 2010. If we cannot generate sufficient operating cash flow or alternatively obtain external financing, our business and financial condition may be materially adversely affected, and our business may fail. As of May 3, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted cash, of $32.9 million. Our long-term investments of $17.9 million as of May 3, 2009, consisted of auction rate securities, for which auctions have not occurred since February 2008, and a purchased put option. We have experienced a decrease in revenue during fiscal 2009 and, if adverse semiconductor industry or general economic conditions persist or worsen, we could experience further decreases in revenue. In the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we increased cost cutting activities, including reducing the number of employees, capital spending, research and development projects and administrative expenses. In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we further increased cost cutting activities, including reducing the number of employees, closing some offices and consolidating other offices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve anticipated expense reductions or that we will not be required to make further cost reductions. Some cost cutting activities may require initial cost outlays before the cost reductions are realized. If our revenue continues to decrease, or if our expense reduction efforts are unsuccessful, our operating results and business may be materially adversely affected, and our business may fail. In addition, the $49.9 million principal amount outstanding on our 2010 Notes as of May 3, 2009 will become due and payable on May 15, 2010. We will be required to generate cash sufficient to conduct our business operations and pay our indebtedness and other liabilities, including all amounts, both principal and interest, as they become due on the 2010 Notes, as well as any new convertible notes issued pursuant to our proposed exchange offer. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to cover our anticipated debt service obligations, including making payments on any outstanding notes or repaying any 2010 Notes that remain outstanding at maturity. Our ability to meet our future debt service obligations will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to make required principal and interest payments on our notes when due in the absence of additional sources of equity or debt financing. If our customers believe that we are not financially sound, they may choose to stop doing business with us, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We intend to assess and try to access private and public sources of external financing, including debt and equity, to repay our existing indebtedness. We are also currently exploring and may explore in the future sources of external financing in order to achieve growth or other business objectives. Such financing may not be available in sufficient amounts, when needed or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, any equity financing may not be desirable because of resulting dilution to our stockholders, which may be significant in light of the current trading price of our common stock and the size of our market capitalization compared to our outstanding debt. We also may, from time to time, redeem, tender for, exchange for, or repurchase our securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions depending upon availability of our cash resources, market conditions and other factors. In May 2009, we filed a Schedule TO and registration statement on Form S-4 for a proposed exchange offer of our 2010 Notes for a new series of convertible notes with a longer maturity. We filed amendments to both the Schedule TO and the registration statement on June 23, 2009. We plan to commence the exchange offer shortly following the filing of this Form 10-K. If the proposed exchange offer is unsuccessful, we will have a substantial amount of debt due in full in May 2010. Moreover, the availability of funds under our two existing $7.5 million revolving lines of credit may be adversely affected by our financial condition, results of 13 Table of Contents operations and incurrence or maintenance of additional debt, and we may be required to designate additional amounts of restricted cash up to an aggregate of $7.5 million. If we are unable to obtain needed financing or generate sufficient cash from operations, our ability to expand, develop or enhance our services or products, fund our working capital requirements or respond to competitive pressures would be limited, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are currently party to and may enter into debt arrangements in the future, each of which may subject us to restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to operate our business. We are party to two $7.5 million senior secured revolving lines of credit that impose various restrictions and covenants on us that limit our ability to incur or guarantee indebtedness, make investments, declare dividends or make distributions, acquire or merge into other entities, sell substantial portions of our assets and grant security interests in our assets. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness through arrangements such as credit agreements or term loans that may also impose similar restrictions and covenants. These restrictions and covenants limit, and any future covenants and restrictions may limit, our ability to respond to market conditions, make capital investments or take advantage of business opportunities. Any debt arrangements we enter into may require us to make regular interest or principal payments, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to satisfy or comply with the provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios of our debt instruments, which can be affected by events beyond our control. If we fail to satisfy or comply with such provisions, covenants, financial tests and ratios, or if we disagree with our lenders about whether or not we are in compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain waivers for any failures to comply with our financial covenants or any other terms of the debt instruments. We also may not be able to obtain amendments that will prevent a failure to comply in the future. A breach of any of the provisions, covenants, financial tests or ratios under our debt instruments could result in a default under the applicable agreement, which in turn could accelerate the timing of our repayment obligations such that our indebtedness would become immediately due and payable and could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments, any of which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing operations and investments. The volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has reached unprecedented levels over the past several months. These changes in U.S. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions and tightening of the credit markets, may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments or increase the cost of obtaining financing. Customer payment defaults may cause us to be unable to recognize revenue from backlog, and changes in the type of orders comprising backlog could affect the proportion of revenue recognized from backlog each quarter, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our revenue backlog is variable based on volume of usage of our products by customers or includes specific future deliverables or is recognized as revenue on a cash receipts basis. Management has estimated variable usage based on customers’ forecasts, but there can be no assurance that these estimates will be realized. In addition, it is possible that customers from whom we expect to derive revenue from backlog will default, and, as a result, we may not be able to recognize revenue from backlog as expected. At May 3, 2009, one customer accounted for 21% of accounts receivable. If a customer defaults and fails to pay amounts owed, or if the level of defaults increases, our bad debt expense is likely to increase. Any material payment default by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We rely on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and our revenue could decline if customers delay orders or fail to renew licenses or if we are unable to maintain or develop relationships with current or potential customers. Our business depends on sales to a small number of customers. Although no customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended May 3, 2009, we expect that we will generally continue to depend upon a relatively small number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. If we fail to sell sufficient quantities of our products and services to one or more customers in any particular period, or if a large customer reduces purchases of our products or services, defers orders, defaults on its payment obligations to us, or fails to renew licenses, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, if our customers believe that we are not financially sound, they may choose to stop doing business with us, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Most of our customers license our software under time-based licensing agreements, with terms that typically range from 15 months to 48 months. Most of our license agreements automatically expire at the end of the term unless the customer renews the license with us or purchases a perpetual license. If our customers do not renew their licenses or renew their licenses with shorter terms, we may not be able to maintain our current revenue or may not generate additional revenue. Some of our license agreements allow customers to terminate an agreement prior to its expiration under limited circumstances—for example, if our products do not meet specified performance requirements or goals. If these agreements are terminated prior to expiration or we are unable to collect under these agreements, our revenue may decline. Some contracts with extended payment terms provide for payments which are weighted toward the latter part of the contract term. Accordingly, for bundled agreements, as the payment terms are extended, the revenue from these contracts is not recognized evenly over the contract term, but is recognized as the lesser of the cumulative amounts due and payable or ratably. For unbundled agreements, as the payment terms are extended, the revenue from these contracts is recognized as amounts become due and payable. Revenue recognized under these arrangements will be higher in the latter part of the contract term, which potentially puts our future revenue recognition at greater risk of the customer’s continued credit-worthiness. In addition, some of our customers have extended payment terms, which creates additional credit risk. We compete against companies that hold a large share of the EDA market and competition is increasing among EDA vendors as customers tightly control their EDA spending and use fewer vendors to meet their needs. If we cannot compete successfully, we will not gain market share and our revenue could decline. We currently compete with companies that hold dominant shares in the electronic design automation (“EDA”) market, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. (“Cadence”), Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”) and Mentor Graphics Corporation (“Mentor”). Each of these companies has a longer operating history and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do, as well as greater name recognition and a larger installed customer base. Our competitors are better able to offer aggressive discounts on their products, a practice they often employ. Competition and corresponding pricing pressures among EDA vendors or other factors could cause the overall market for EDA products to have low growth rates, remain relatively flat or even decrease in terms of overall dollars. Our competitors offer a more comprehensive range of products than we do. For example, we do not offer logic simulation, which can sometimes be an impediment to our winning a particular customer order. In addition, our industry has traditionally viewed acquisitions as an effective strategy for growth in products and market share, and our competitors’ greater cash resources and higher market capitalization would likely give them a relative advantage over us in acquiring companies with promising new chip design products or companies that may be too large for us to acquire without a strain on our resources and liquidity. Competition in the EDA market has increased as customers rationalized their EDA spending by using products from fewer EDA vendors. Continued consolidation in the EDA market could intensify this trend. In addition, gaining market share in the EDA market can be difficult as it may take years for a customer to move from a competitor. Many of our competitors, such as Cadence, Synopsys and Mentor, have established 15 Table of Contents relationships with our current and potential customers and can devote substantial resources aimed at preventing us from establishing or enhancing our customer relationships. Competitive pressures may prevent us from obtaining new customers and gaining market share, may require us to reduce the price of products and services or cause us to lose existing customers, which could harm our business. To execute our business strategy successfully, we must continue our efforts to increase our sales worldwide. If we fail to do so in a timely manner or at all, we may not be able to gain market share and our business and operating results could suffer. Also, a variety of small companies continue to emerge, developing and introducing new products which may compete with our products. Any of these companies could become a significant competitor in the future. We also compete with the internal chip design automation development groups of our existing and potential customers. Therefore, these customers may not require, or may be reluctant to purchase, products offered by independent vendors. Our competitors may develop or acquire new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing or new product offerings. The introduction of these new or additional products by competitors may cause potential customers to defer purchases of our products or decide against purchasing our products. If we fail to compete successfully, we will not gain market share, or our market share may decrease, and our business may fail. If the industries into which we sell our products continue to experience a recession or other cyclical effects affecting our customers’ research and development budgets, our revenue would likely decline further. Demand for our products is driven by new integrated circuit design projects. The demand from semiconductor and systems companies is uncertain and difficult to predict. A continued sharp downturn (such as that currently being experienced in the semiconductor and systems industries), a reduced number of design starts, a reduction in the complexity of integrated circuits, a reduction in our customers’ EDA budgets or consolidation among our customers would accelerate the decrease in revenue we have experienced during fiscal 2009 and would harm our business and financial condition. The primary customers for our products are companies in the communications, computing, consumer electronics, networking and semiconductor industries. A continued downturn in our customers’ markets or in general economic conditions that results in the cutback of research and development budgets or the delay of software purchases would likely result in lower demand for our products and services and could harm our business. The continuing threat of terrorist attacks in the United States, the ongoing events in Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, the Middle East, North Korea and other parts of the world, recent problems with the financial system, such as problems involving banks as well as the mortgage markets and the recent financial crisis, and other worldwide events have increased uncertainty in the United States economy. If the economy continues to decline as a result of this economic, financial and political turmoil, existing customers may decrease their purchases of our software products or delay their implementation of our software products, and prospective customers may decide not to adopt our software products, any of which could negatively impact our business and operating results. The electronics industry has historically been subject to seasonal and cyclical fluctuations in demand for its products, and this trend may continue in the future. These industry downturns have been and may continue to be characterized by diminished product demand, excess manufacturing capacity and subsequent erosion of average selling prices. Any such seasonal or cyclical industry downturns could harm our operating results. Our lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle and the large size of some orders make it difficult for us to forecast revenue and increase the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations, which could harm our stock price. Customers for our software products typically commit significant resources to evaluate available software. The complexity of our products requires us to spend substantial time and effort to assist potential customers in evaluating our software and in benchmarking our products against those of our competitors. As the complexity of 16 Table of Contents the products we sell increases, we expect our sales cycle to lengthen. In addition, potential customers may be limited in their current spending by existing time-based licenses with their legacy vendors. In these cases, customers delay a significant new commitment to our software until the term of the existing license has expired. Also, because our products require our customers to invest significant time and incur significant costs, we must target those individuals within our customers’ organizations who are able to make these decisions on behalf of their companies. These individuals tend to be senior management in an organization, typically at the vice president level. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such individuals. Even after those individuals decide to purchase our products, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy and could lead the decision-maker to reconsider the purchase. Our sales cycle typically ranges between three and nine months but can be longer. Any delay in completing sales in a particular quarter could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Furthermore, economic downturns, technological changes, litigation risk or other competitive factors could cause some customers to shorten the terms of their licenses significantly, and such shorter terms could in turn have an impact on our total results for orders for this fiscal year. In addition, the precise mix of orders is subject to substantial fluctuation in any given quarter or multiple quarter periods, and the actual mix of licenses sold affects the revenue we recognize in the period. Even if we achieve the target level of total orders, we may not meet our revenue targets if we are unable to achieve our target license mix. In particular, we may fall short of our revenue targets if we deliver more long-term or ratable licenses than expected, or we may exceed our revenue targets if we deliver more short-term licenses than expected. We have a history of losses, except for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, and had an accumulated deficit of approximately $377.4 million as of May 3, 2009. If we continue to incur losses, the trading price of our stock would likely decline and we may be forced to discontinue our operations altogether. We had an accumulated deficit of approximately $377.4 million as of May 3, 2009. Except for fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, we incurred losses in all other fiscal years since our incorporation in 1997. As a result of our limited cash resources, outstanding debt and history of operating losses, our auditors have expressed in their report on our consolidated financial statements that there is doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. If we continue to incur losses, or if we fail to achieve profitability at levels expected by securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. If we continue to incur losses, we may not be able to maintain or increase our number of employees or our investment in capital equipment, sales, marketing, and research and development programs. Further, we may be forced to discontinue our operations entirely. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict, and if we fail to reach certain quarterly financial expectations, our stock price is likely to decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results fluctuate from quarter to quarter and are difficult to predict. It is likely that our operating results in some periods will be below investor expectations. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. Fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results may be caused by many factors, including: • size and timing of customer orders, which are received unevenly and unpredictably throughout a fiscal year; • the mix of products licensed and types of license agreements; • our ability to recognize revenue in a given quarter; • timing of customer license payments; • the relative mix of time-based licenses bundled with maintenance, unbundled time-based license agreements and perpetual license agreements, each of which requires different revenue recognition practices; 17 Table of Contents • size and timing of revenue recognized in advance of actual customer billings and customers with graduated payment schedules which may result in higher accounts receivable balances and days sales outstanding (“DSO”); • changes in accounting rules and practices related to revenue recognition; • the relative mix of our license and services revenue; • our ability to win new customers and retain existing customers; • changes in our pricing and discounting practices and licensing terms and those of our competitors; • changes in the level of our operating expenses, including general compensation levels as well as increases in incentive compensation payments that may be associated with future revenue growth; • higher-than-anticipated costs in connection with litigation; • the timing of product releases or upgrades by us or our competitors; and • the integration, by us or our competitors, of newly-developed or acquired products or businesses. We have faced lawsuits related to patent infringement and other claims, and we may face additional intellectual property infringement claims or other litigation. Lawsuits can be costly to defend, can take the time of our management and employees away from day-to-day operations, and could result in our losing important rights and paying significant damages. We have faced lawsuits related to patent infringement and other claims in the past. For example, Synopsys previously filed various suits, including actions for patent infringement, against us. In addition, a putative stockholder class action lawsuit and a putative derivative lawsuit were filed against us. All claims brought against us by Synopsys have been fully resolved by a settlement and a license under the asserted patents, although other similar litigation involving Synopsys or other parties may follow. In the future, other parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us or our customers. We may have acquired or may in the future acquire software as a result of our acquisitions, and we could be subject to claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of third parties. We also license technology from certain third parties and could be subject to claims if the software which we license is deemed to infringe the rights of others. In addition, we are often involved in or threatened with commercial litigation unrelated to intellectual property infringement claims such as labor litigation and contract claims, and we may acquire companies that are actively engaged in such litigation. Our products may be found to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, including third-party patents. In addition, many of our contracts contain provisions in which we agree to indemnify our customers against third-party intellectual property infringement claims that are brought against them based on their use of our products. Also, we may be unaware of filed patent applications that relate to our software products. We believe that the patent portfolios of our competitors generally are far larger than ours. This disparity between our patent portfolio and the patent portfolios of our competitors may increase the risk that they may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. The outcome of intellectual property litigation and other types of litigation could result in our loss of critical proprietary rights and unexpected operating costs and substantial monetary damages. Intellectual property litigation and other types of litigation are expensive and time-consuming and could divert our management’s attention from our business. If there is a successful claim against us for infringement, we may be ordered to pay substantial monetary damages (including punitive damages), be prevented from distributing all or some of our products, and be required to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements, which may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license any required proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Publicly announced developments in litigation matters may cause our stock price to decline sharply and suddenly. Other factors may reduce the market price of our common stock, and we are subject to ongoing risks of securities class action litigation related to volatility in the market price for our common stock. We may not be successful in defending some or all claims that may be brought against us. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can result in substantial expense and could divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel from our business. In addition, the ultimate resolution of the lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flow, and harm our ability to execute our business plan. Our operating results will be harmed if chip designers do not adopt or continue to use Blast Fusion, Talus, FineSim, the Quartz family of products, Titan or our other current and future products. Blast Fusion and its successor product Talus have accounted for the largest portion of our revenue since our inception and we believe that revenue from Blast Fusion, Talus, FineSim, the Quartz family of products and Titan will account for most of our revenue for the foreseeable future. To the extent that our customer base discontinues use of Blast Fusion and does not upgrade to our Talus products, our operating results may be significantly harmed. In addition, we have dedicated significant resources to developing and marketing Talus, Titan and other products. We must gain market penetration of Talus, FineSim, the Quartz family of products, Titan and other products in order to achieve our growth strategy and financial success. Moreover, if integrated circuit designers do not continue to adopt or use Talus, FineSim, the Quartz family of products, Titan or our other current and future products, our operating results will be significantly harmed. Our operating results may be harmed if our customers do not adopt, or are slow to adopt, 65-nanometer and smaller design geometries on a large scale. Our customers are currently working on a range of design geometries, including without limitation 45-nanometer, 65-nanometer and 90-nanometer designs. We continue to work toward developing and enhancing our product line in anticipation of increased customer demand for 65-nanometer and other smaller design geometries. Notwithstanding our efforts to support 65-nanometer and other smaller design geometries, customers may fail to adopt, or may face technical difficulties in adopting, these geometries on a large scale and we may be unable to persuade our customers to purchase our related software products. Accordingly, any revenue we receive from enhancements to our products or acquired technologies may be less than the development or acquisition costs. If customers fail to adopt or delay the adoption of 65-nanometer and other smaller design geometries on a large scale, our operating results may be harmed. In addition, if customers are not able successfully to generate profits as they adopt smaller geometries, demand for our products may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. Difficulties in developing and achieving market acceptance of new products and delays in planned release dates of our software products and upgrades may harm our business. To succeed, we will need to develop or acquire innovative new products. We may not have the financial resources necessary to fund all required future innovations. Expanding into new technologies or extending our product line into areas we have not previously addressed may be more costly or difficult than we presently anticipate. Also, any revenue that we receive from enhancements or new generations of our proprietary software products may be less than the costs that we incur to develop or acquire those technologies and products. If we fail to develop and market new products in a timely manner, or if new products do not meet performance features as marketed, our reputation and our business could suffer. 19 Table of Contents Our success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technology standards of the semiconductor industry. If we are unable to keep pace with these evolving technology standards, our products could be rendered obsolete, which would cause our operating results to decline. The semiconductor industry has made significant technological advances. In particular, recent advances in deep sub-micron technology have required EDA companies to develop or acquire new products and enhance existing products continuously. The evolving nature of our industry could render our existing products and services obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • enhance our existing products and services; • develop and introduce new products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis that will keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards; • address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers; and • acquire other companies that have complementary or innovative products. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. Our costs of customer engagement and support are high, so our gross margin may decrease if we incur higher-than-expected costs associated with providing support services in the future or if we reduce our prices. Because of the complexity of our products, we typically incur high field application engineering support costs to engage new customers and assist them in their evaluations of our products. If we fail to manage our customer engagement and support costs, our operating results could suffer. In addition, our gross margin may decrease if we are unable to manage support costs associated with the services revenue we generate or if we reduce prices in response to competitive pressure. If chip designers and manufacturers do not integrate our software into existing design flows, or if other software companies do not cooperate in working with us to interface our products with their design flows, demand for our products may decrease. To implement our business strategy successfully, we must provide products that interface with the software of other EDA software companies. Our competitors may not support efforts by us or by our customers to integrate our products into their existing design flows. We must develop cooperative relationships with competitors so that they will work with us to integrate our software into customers’ design flow. Currently, our software is designed to interface with the existing software of Cadence, Synopsys and others. If we are unable to persuade customers to adopt our software products instead of those of competitors (including competitors offering a broader set of products), or if we are unable to persuade other software companies to work with us to interface our software to meet the demands of chip designers and manufacturers, our business and operating results will suffer. Product defects could cause us to lose customers and revenue, or to incur unexpected expenses. Our products depend on complex software, which we either developed internally or acquired or licensed from third parties. Our customers may use our products with other companies’ products, which also contain complex software. If our software does not meet our customers’ performance requirements or meet the performance features as marketed, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, a limited number of our contracts include specified ongoing performance criteria. If our products fail to meet these criteria, it may lead to termination of these agreements and loss of future revenue. Complex software often contains errors. Any failure or poor performance of our software or the third-party software with which it is integrated could result in: • delayed market acceptance of our software products; • delays in product shipments; 20 Table of Contents • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to identify the source of errors or to correct errors; • damage to our reputation; • delayed or lost revenue; and • product liability claims. Our product functions are often critical to our customers, especially because of the resources our customers expend on the design and fabrication of integrated circuits. Many of our licensing agreements contain provisions to provide a limited warranty. In addition, some of our licensing agreements provide the customer with a right of refund for the license fees if we are unable to correct errors reported during the warranty period. If our contractual limitations are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to claims that are not covered by insurance, a successful claim could harm our business. We currently carry insurance coverage and limits that we believe are consistent with similarly situated companies within the EDA industry; however, our insurance coverage may prove insufficient to protect against any claims that we may experience. We may not be able to hire or retain the number of qualified personnel required for our business, particularly engineering personnel, which would harm the development and sales of our products and limit our ability to grow. Competition in our industry for senior management, technical, sales, marketing and other key personnel is intense. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract and train additional qualified personnel, our growth may be limited due to a lack of capacity to develop and market our products. In particular, we may continue to experience difficulty in hiring and retaining skilled engineers with appropriate qualifications to support our growth strategy. Our success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain qualified engineering personnel with experience in integrated circuit design. Specifically, we may need to continue to attract and retain field application engineers to work with our direct sales force to qualify new sales opportunities technically and perform design work to demonstrate our products’ capabilities to customers during the benchmark evaluation process. Competition for qualified engineers is intense, particularly in the Silicon Valley area where our headquarters are located. If we lose the services of a significant number of our employees or if we cannot hire additional employees of the same caliber, we will be unable to increase our sales or implement or maintain our growth strategy. Our success is highly dependent on the technical, sales, marketing and managerial contributions of key individuals whom we may be unable to recruit and retain. We depend on our senior executives and certain key research and development and sales and marketing personnel, who are critical to our business. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our key employees, and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Furthermore, our larger competitors may be able to offer more generous compensation packages to executives and key employees, and therefore we risk losing key personnel to those competitors. If we lose the services of any of our key personnel, our product development processes and sales efforts could be harmed. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of our senior executives to search for their replacements. The integration of new executives or new personnel could disrupt our ongoing operations. If we fail to offer and maintain competitive compensation packages for our employees, or if our stock price declines materially for a protracted period of time, we might have difficulty retaining our employees and our business may be harmed. If the compensation of our employees is not competitive or satisfactory to the employees, we may have difficulty in retaining our employees and our business may be harmed. In today’s competitive technology industry, employment decisions of highly skilled personnel are influenced by equity compensation packages. Our 21 Table of Contents stock price has declined significantly for many years due to market conditions and had until recently been negatively affected by uncertainty surrounding the outcome of our litigation with Synopsys, Inc. discussed above. In addition, our stock price has declined significantly in light of our recent financial results. As a result, many of our outstanding stock options have exercise prices per share that are currently above the trading price per share of our common stock. Even though we recently exchanged certain stock options of employees for restricted stock units as a means to try to retain employees, such exchange might not be sufficient to retain employees. Therefore, we may be forced to grant additional options or other equity to retain employees. This in turn could result in: • immediate and substantial dilution to investors resulting from the grant of additional options or other equity necessary to retain employees; and • compensation charges against us, which would negatively impact our operating results. If our sales force compensation arrangements are not designed effectively, we may lose sales personnel and resources. Designing an effective incentive compensation structure for our sales force is critical to our success. We have experimented, and continue to experiment, with different systems of sales force compensation. If our incentives are not well designed, we may experience reduced revenue generation, and we may also lose the services of our more productive sales personnel, either of which would reduce our revenue or potential revenue. We have had to implement a series of restructuring efforts recently. In the event that these efforts result in ineffective interoperability between our products or ineffective collaboration among our employees, or we are unable to continue to manage the pace of our growth, our business could be harmed. The recent global economic downturn has negatively affected the semiconductor industry and our business, and in response to these adverse conditions we have had to implement a series of restructuring efforts. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we decreased our workforce and incurred restructuring charges of $0.3 million. In addition, we initiated a restructuring plan in May 2008 for which we have incurred restructuring charges in fiscal 2009 of $10.7 million, primarily for employee termination and facility closure costs. It is likely that we will continue to restructure our company and incur additional associated expenses during fiscal 2010. This reduction in force might harm operating results by making it more difficult for the reduced workforce to take advantage of business opportunities and reach revenue goals. Furthermore, if our organizational structure or restructuring plan results in ineffective interoperability between our products or ineffective collaboration among our employees, then our operating results may be harmed. For example, we could experience delays in new product development that could cause us to lose customer orders, which could harm our operating results. To pace the growth of our operations with the growth in our revenue, we must continue to improve administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls. Failure to improve our internal procedures and controls could hinder our efforts to manage our growth adequately, disrupt operations, lead to additional expenses associated with restructurings, lead to deficiencies in our internal controls and financial reporting and otherwise harm our business. We may be unable to make payments to satisfy our indemnification obligations. We enter into standard license agreements in the ordinary course of business. Pursuant to these agreements, we agree to indemnify certain of our customers for losses suffered or incurred by them as a result of any patent, copyright, or other intellectual property infringement claim by any third party with respect to our products. These indemnification obligations have perpetual terms. Our normal business practice is to limit the maximum amount of indemnification to the amount received from the customer. On occasion, the maximum amount of indemnification we may be required to make may exceed our normal business practices. We estimate that the fair value of our indemnification obligations are insignificant, based upon our historical experience concerning 22 Table of Contents product and patent infringement claims. Accordingly, we have no liabilities recorded for indemnification under these agreements as of May 3, 2009. If an indemnification event were to occur, we might not have enough funds to pay our indemnification obligations. Further, any material indemnification payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. We have entered into certain indemnification agreements whereby certain of our officers and directors are indemnified for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was, serving at our request in such capacity. Additionally, in connection with certain of our recent business acquisitions, we agreed to assume, or cause our subsidiaries to assume, indemnification obligations to the officers and directors of the acquired companies. While we have directors and officers insurance that reduces our exposure and enables us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid pursuant to our indemnification obligations to our officers and directors, the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited. However, as a result of our directors and officers insurance coverage and our belief that our estimated potential exposure to our officers and directors for indemnification liabilities is minimal, no liabilities have been recorded for these agreements as of May 3, 2009. Therefore, if an indemnification event were to occur, we might not have enough funds to pay our indemnification obligations. Further, any material indemnification payment could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Our investments in marketable debt securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. Our marketable securities portfolio is invested in auction rate securities which were structured to provide liquidity through an auction process that reset the applicable interest rate generally every 28 days. Starting with the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the auction rate securities held by us at face value of $18.4 million as of May 3, 2009, failed at auction and have continued to fail at auction due to sell orders exceeding buy orders. These auctions had historically provided a liquid market for these securities. All of the auction rate securities that failed are AAA rated and are secured by pools of student loans guaranteed by state regulated higher education agencies and reinsured by the U.S. Department of Education. However, the liquidity and fair value of these investments have been impacted primarily by the uncertainty of the credit markets. Given these circumstances and the lack of liquidity, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term investments. In October 2008, we entered into a settlement agreement with UBS Financial Services, Inc. (“UBS”) which provided us with an option to sell the auction rate securities held by us back to UBS at par value beginning June 30, 2010 until July 2, 2012 and with an offer to provide “no net cost” loans to us of up to 75% of the market value of the auction rate securities. We intend to exercise our option and sell the auction rate securities back at par on or about June 30, 2010. We also entered into a “no net cost” secured line of credit with UBS for $12.6 million, which provides cash liquidity to us until June 30, 2010. If UBS fails to meet its obligation to buy back the auction rate securities at par value, if a certain concentration of the underlying reference portfolios default, if the issuing agent fails to make the required interest payments, or if the credit ratings on the underlying reference portfolios deteriorate significantly, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of these investments, which could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions are an important element of our strategy. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be successful in integrating the operations of acquired companies and acquired technology. Part of our growth strategy is to pursue acquisitions. We expect to continuously evaluate the possibility of accelerating our growth through acquisitions, as is customary in the EDA industry. The recent decline in the price of our common stock, our focus on cash management and our need to reduce our debt levels may impact our ability to pursue acquisitions for some period of time. Achieving the anticipated benefits of past and possible future acquisitions will depend in part upon whether we can integrate the operations, products and technology of 23 Table of Contents acquired companies with our operations, products and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. The process of integrating acquired companies and acquired technology is complex, expensive and time consuming, and may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the product development and sales activities and operations of both companies. In addition, the earnout arrangements we use, and expect to continue to use, to consummate some of our acquisitions, pursuant to which we agreed to pay additional amounts of contingent consideration based on the achievement of certain revenue, bookings or product development milestones, can sometimes complicate integration efforts. We cannot be sure that we will find suitable acquisition candidates or that acquisitions we complete will be successful. Assimilating previously acquired companies such as Sabio Labs, Inc. (“Sabio”), Knights Technology, Inc. (“Knights”), ACAD Corporation (“ACAD”), Mojave, Silicon Metrics Corporation, or any other companies we have acquired or may seek to acquire in the future, involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: • adverse effects on existing customer relationships, such as cancellation of orders or the loss of key customers; • adverse effects on existing licensor or supplier relationships, such as termination of certain license agreements; • difficulties in integrating or retaining key employees of the acquired company; • the risk that earnouts based on revenue will prove difficult to administer due to the complexities of revenue recognition accounting; • the risk that actions incentivized by earnout provisions will ultimately prove not to be in our best interest if our interests change over time; • difficulties in integrating the operations of the acquired company, such as information technology resources, manufacturing processes, and financial and operational data; • difficulties in integrating the technologies of the acquired company into our products; • diversion of our management’s attention; • potential incompatibility of business cultures; • potential dilution to existing stockholders if we incur debt or issue equity securities to finance acquisitions; and • additional expenses associated with the amortization of intangible assets. Because much of our business is international, we are exposed to risks inherent in doing business internationally that could harm our business. We also intend to expand our international operations. If our revenue from this expansion does not exceed the expenses associated with this expansion, our business and operating results could suffer. In fiscal 2009, we generated 41% of our total revenue from sales outside North America, compared to 40% in fiscal 2008 and 32% in fiscal 2007. To the extent that we expand our international operations, we may need to continue to maintain offices in Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. If our revenue from international operations does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining our international operations, our business could suffer. Additional risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations across different geographic areas; • changes in currency exchange rates and controls; • uncertainty regarding tax and regulatory requirements in multiple jurisdictions; 24 Table of Contents • the possible lack of financial and political stability in foreign countries, preventing overseas sales growth; • current events in North Korea, the Middle East, and other parts of the world; • the effects of terrorist attacks in the United States or against U.S. interests overseas; • recent problems with the financial system, such as problems involving banks as well as the mortgage markets and the recent financial crisis; and • any related conflicts or similar events worldwide. We are subject to risks associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. While most of our international sales to date have been denominated in U.S. dollars, our international operating expenses have been denominated in foreign currencies. As a result, a decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to such foreign currencies could increase the relative costs of our overseas operations, which could reduce our operating margins. This exposure is primarily related to a portion of revenue in Japan and operating expenses in Europe, Japan and Asia-Pacific, which are denominated in the respective local currencies. As of May 3, 2009, we had approximately $6.0 million of cash and money market funds in foreign currencies. During the third quarter of fiscal 2008, we started entering into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the effects of our currency exposure risk for foreign currency transactions in Japanese Yen. While we assess the need to utilize financial instruments to hedge currency exposures on an ongoing basis, our assessments may prove incorrect. Therefore, movements in exchange rates could negatively impact our business operating results and financial condition. Forecasting our tax rates is complex and subject to uncertainty. Our management must make significant assumptions, judgments and estimates to determine our current provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and any valuation allowance that may be recorded against our deferred tax assets. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are difficult to make due to their complexity, and the relevant tax law is often changing. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the following: • an increase in expenses that are not deductible for tax purposes, including stock-based compensation and write-offs of acquired in-process research and development; • changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; • future changes in ownership that may limit realization of certain assets; • changes in forecasts of pre-tax profits and losses by jurisdiction used to estimate tax expense by jurisdiction; • assessment of additional taxes as a result of federal, state, or foreign tax examinations; or • changes in tax laws or interpretations of such tax laws. Future changes in accounting standards, specifically changes affecting revenue recognition, could cause unexpected adverse revenue fluctuations for us. Future changes in accounting standards or interpretations thereof, specifically those changes affecting software revenue recognition, could require us to change our methods of revenue recognition. These changes could result in deferral of revenue recognized in current periods to subsequent periods or in accelerated recognition of deferred revenue to current periods, each of which could cause shortfalls in meeting the expectations of investors and securities analysts. Our stock price could decline as a result of any shortfall. 25 Table of Contents We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Nasdaq Stock Market, required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies, which increased our legal and financial compliance costs. In particular, we have incurred and will continue to incur administrative expenses relating to compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires that we implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls and annual certification of our compliance by our independent registered public accounting firm. We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), we are required to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. We have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could negatively impact our stock price. In addition, we must continue to monitor and assess our internal control over financial reporting because a failure to comply with Section 404 could cause us to delay filing our public reports, potentially resulting in de-listing by the Nasdaq Global Market and penalties or other adverse consequences under our existing contractual arrangements. In particular, pursuant to the indenture for the 2010 Notes, if we fail to file our annual or quarterly reports in accordance with the terms of that indenture, or if we do not comply with certain provisions of the Trust Indenture Act specified in the indenture, after the passage of certain periods of time at the election of a certain minimum number of holders of the 2010 Notes, we may be in default under the indenture unless we pay a fee equal to 1% per annum of the aggregate principal amounts of the 2010 Notes, or the extension fee, to extend the default date. Even if we pay the applicable extension fee, we will eventually be in default for these filing failures if sufficient time passes and we have not made the applicable filing. The effectiveness of disclosure controls is inherently limited. We do not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures, or our internal control over financial reporting, will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system objectives will be met. The design of a control system must also reflect applicable resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. As a result of these inherent limitations, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been detected. Failure of the control systems to prevent error or fraud could materially adversely impact our financial results and our business. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection for our software and other proprietary technology. We currently have a number of issued patents in the United States, but this number is relatively small in comparison to our competitors. Patents afford only limited protection for our technology. In 26 Table of Contents addition, rights that may be granted under any patent application that may issue in the future may not provide competitive advantages to us. Further, patent protection in foreign jurisdictions where we may need this protection may be limited or unavailable. It is possible that: • our pending U.S. and non-U.S. patents may not be issued; • competitors may design around our present or future issued patents or may develop competing non-infringing technologies; • present and future issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary rights; and • present and future issued patents could be successfully challenged for validity and enforceability. We believe the patent portfolios of our competitors are far larger than ours, and this may increase the risk that they may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. In addition to patents, we rely on trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights. If these rights are not sufficiently protected, it could harm our ability to compete and generate income. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our ability to compete and grow our business could suffer if these rights are not adequately protected. We seek to protect our source code for our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We license our software pursuant to agreements, which impose certain restrictions on the licensee’s ability to utilize the software. We also seek to avoid disclosure of our intellectual property by requiring employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. Our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions in U.S. and foreign jurisdictions may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; • competitors may independently develop similar technologies and software; • for some of our trademarks, federal U.S. trademark protection may be unavailable to us; • our trademarks might not be protected or protectable in some foreign jurisdictions; • the validity and scope of our U.S. and foreign trademarks could be successfully challenged; and • policing unauthorized use of our products and trademarks is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of this unauthorized use. The laws of some countries in which we market our products may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for them, which would harm our competitive position and market share. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for our stockholders to resell our stock at attractive prices. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “LAVA”. There have been previous quarters in which we have experienced shortfalls in revenue and earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors, which have had an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in recent periods. From January 1, 2008 until July 6, 2009, the closing price of our common stock has ranged from $0.71 to $12.30 per share. 27 Table of Contents The market price of our stock is subject to significant fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including the risk factors set forth in this prospectus, many of which are beyond our control. Such fluctuations, as well as economic conditions generally, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in recent years, and particularly in the last year, has experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Recent problems with the financial system, such as problems involving banks as well as the mortgage markets, might increase such market fluctuations. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware corporate law contain anti-takeover provisions which could delay or prevent a change in control even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We could also adopt a stockholder rights plan, which could also delay or prevent a change in control. Delaware law, as well as our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, even if the change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. These provisions could lower the price that future investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock. These anti-takeover provisions: • authorize our Board of Directors to create and issue, without prior stockholder approval, preferred stock that can be issued, increasing the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • establish a classified Board of Directors requiring that not all members of the board be elected at one time; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and • require advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors and proposals that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law and the terms of our stock option plans also may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Section 203 generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the date the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Our stock option plans include change-in-control provisions that allow us to grant options or stock purchase rights that will become vested immediately upon a change in control. Our board of directors also has the power to adopt a stockholder rights plan, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us even if the change in control is generally beneficial to our stockholders. These plans, sometimes called “poison pills,” are sometimes criticized by institutional investors or their advisors and could affect our rating by such investors or advisors. If our board were to adopt such a plan it might have the effect of reducing the price that new investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents There may be additional dilution to our current stockholders upon achievement of various milestones pursuant to our mergers and acquisitions. There may be additional dilution to our current stockholders upon achievement of various milestones pursuant to our mergers and acquisitions, and such dilution would also dilute the voting power and ownership interest of our existing stockholders and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and could increase the fluctuations in our stock price. Failure to obtain export licenses could harm our business by preventing us from licensing or transferring our technology outside of the United States. We are required to comply with U.S. Department of Commerce regulations when shipping our software products and/or transferring our technology outside of the United States or to certain foreign nationals. We believe we have complied with applicable export regulations; however, these regulations are subject to change, and future difficulties in obtaining export licenses for current, future developed and acquired products and technology, or any failure (if any) by us to comply with such requirements in the past, could harm our business, financial conditions and operating results. Our business operations may be adversely affected in the event of an earthquake or other natural disaster. Our corporate headquarters and much of our research and development operations are located in San Jose, California, in California’s Silicon Valley region, which is an area known for its seismic activity. An earthquake, fire or other significant natural disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and/or operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 