Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition The current widespread economic downturn and uncertainty and turmoil in the equity and credit markets could adversely impact our clients, diminish the demand for our services and products, and harm our operations and financial performance. The energy efficiency solutions marketplace is has experienced rapid evolution and growth, but we do not know how sensitive it is to a recession or downturn in the general economy. The current recession could harm the economic health of our clients and consequently decrease the demand for our products or services, particularly in the commercial and industrial markets. The recession also may cause reductions or elimination of utility or government energy efficiency incentive programs used to partially fund the costs of customer projects. In addition, increased competition during the recession may result in lower sales, reduced likelihood of profitability, and diminished cash flow to us. Further, the sales of our energy efficiency solutions are made on the basis of contracts that permit our customers to terminate the engagement prior to completion rather than long-term purchase commitments and consequently our clients may cancel, delay or otherwise modify their purchase commitments in response to economic pressures with little or no consequence to them and with little or no notice to us. Whether in response to an economic downturn affecting an industry or a client’s specific business including its bankruptcy or insolvency, any cancellation, delay or other modification in our clients’ orders could significantly reduce our revenue, impact our working capital, cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult for us to predict our revenue. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations, and we might need to raise capital, which might not be available. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $11.3 million, which represents approximately 18% of our total capitalization of $64.3 million (adjusted for the debt discount). Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences to us including:: 9 Table of Contents • increase our vulnerability to the current economic downturn and negative industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, growth initiatives, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our growth strategy, research and development costs or other purposes; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and • limit our ability to continue to offer customer financing in certain situations. Any of the above listed factors could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we do not have sufficient earnings to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of the existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Additionally, in the past we have relied, to a large extent, on financing from related parties, including the financing of the AEM acquisition. There are no assurances that such related parties will continue to provide financing or financing on terms that are acceptable to us. We may require additional equity or debt financing for additional working capital for expansion, to consummate an acquisition or if we continue to suffer losses. In the event additional financing is unavailable to us, we may be unable to expand or make acquisitions and our stock price may decline. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception and we currently have an accumulated deficit. Our ability to continue as a going concern is ultimately dependent on our ability to increase sales to a level that will allow us to operate profitably and sustain positive operating cash flows. We must overcome marketing hurdles, including gaining market acceptance, in order to increase sales of our services and technologies. In addition, we may be required to reduce the prices of our services and technologies in order to increase sales. If we reduce prices, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to achieve acceptable profit margins. As we strive to grow our business, we have spent and expect to continue to spend significant funds for: (i) general corporate purposes, including working capital, marketing, recruiting and hiring additional personnel; (ii) acquisitions, including our purchase of AEM in June 2008; and (iii) research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve profitability in the future or if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain it. If sufficient additional funding is not available to us, the commercialization of our services and technologies and our ability to grow is likely to be impaired. Our operations have not generated positive cash flow since our inception on an annual basis. We have funded our operations through the issuance of common and preferred stock and debt. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow turns positive may depend on our ability to continue to raise funds 10 Table of Contents through the issuance of equity or debt. The current worldwide economic downtown has significantly reduced access to capital and credit markets. If we are not successful in raising additional funds, we might have to significantly scale back or delay our growth plans, sell or shut down some of our businesses or possibly cease operations altogether. Any reduction or delay in our growth plans could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace, take advantage of business opportunities and develop or enhance our services and technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we should have to cease operations altogether, our stockholders’ investment is likely to be lost. It is difficult for us to estimate our future quarterly operating results. A significant portion of our revenue is seasonal. Historically, this seasonality has caused our revenue, operating income, net income and working capital requirements to be lower in the first two quarters and higher in the last two quarters of each year. The concentration of revenue and earnings in the fourth quarter is due largely to our clients’ budget cycle. Further, many of our sales of our energy efficiency solutions are made on the basis of cancellable short term contracts rather than long-term purchase commitments and consequently we do not have a constant and predictable stream of revenue from any one client. Additionally, because a few large projects are often responsible for a significant portion of AEM’s annual revenue, the level of activity, initial project delays or gaps between projects have can lead to significant fluctuations of revenue on an irregular basis throughout the fiscal year. As a result, we may be unable to forecast our revenue accurately, and a failure to meet our revenue or expense forecasts could have an immediate and negative impact on the market price of our common stock. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards may be subject to limitation, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability. Generally, a change of more than 50% in the ownership of a company’s stock, by value, over a three-year period constitutes an ownership change for U.S. federal income tax purposes. An ownership change may limit a company’s ability to use its net operating loss carry forwards attributable to the period prior to such change. The number of shares of our common stock that we have sold in various transactions since our inception, together with any subsequent shares of stock we issue, or that our stockholders may sell, including those to be sold in the AEM and ADVB Acquisitions, will likely be sufficient, taking into account prior or future shifts in our ownership over a three-year period, to cause us to undergo an ownership change. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carry forwards, which amounted to approximately $77 million as of December 31, 2008, to offset U.S. federal taxable income will become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history under our current business model in a rapidly evolving market, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects, and may expose us to increased risks and uncertainties. Our business has evolved substantially over time through organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Our current business model has only been in operation since June 2006, when we launched our Energy Efficiency Services business. Accordingly, we only have a limited history of generating revenues under our current business model, and the future revenue potential of our current business model in the rapidly evolving energy efficiency solutions market is uncertain. As a result of our short operating history under our current business model, we have limited financial data that can be used to evaluate our business, strategies, performance and prospects or an investment in our common stock. Any evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history under our 11 Table of Contents current business model and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies with new business models. To address these risks and uncertainties, among other things, we must do the following: • maintain and expand our current relationships and develop new relationships with commercial and industrial businesses, property owners and managers and large Energy Service Companies serving government and educational institutions; • maintain and enhance our existing energy efficiency solutions; • continue to develop new and improved energy efficiency solutions that achieve significant market acceptance; • integrate Applied Energy Management, Inc. business, acquired in June 2008, into our current business model; • execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; • respond to competitive developments; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, accomplishing many of these goals might be very expensive, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, any predictions about our future operating results may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history under our current business model. We depend upon a limited number of clients in any given period to generate a substantial portion of our revenue. Historically, we have not operated under long-term contracts with our clients, and our dependence on individual key clients varied from period to period as a result of the significant size of some of our retrofit and multi-facility roll-out projects. During 2008, two clients accounted for approximately 24% of our consolidated revenue, while three clients accounted for approximately 44% of our pro forma 2007 consolidated revenue. Our top ten accounted for approximately 60% and 68% of our total revenue in fiscal 2008 and 2007 pro forma revenue. We expect large retrofit and roll-out projects to become a greater component of our total revenue in the near term. As a result, we may experience more client concentration in any given future period. The loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our significant clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any given future period. Our public sector business depends on a limited number of ESCOs under contract by government and other public end-users. A significant portion of our public sector business revenue is generated through our relationship with a limited number of ESCOs that provide energy efficiency services to government and other public sector end-users. If for any reason government spending on energy efficiency services is reduced or postponed or government and other public sector end-users shift contracts to ESCOs with whom we do not have established relationships, this may have a significant negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our public sector projects typically have longer payment 12 Table of Contents cycles that may adversely affect our liquidity and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any given future period. We may be unable to obtain sufficient bonding capacity to support certain service offerings. A significant number of our government contracts require surety bonds. Bonding capacity for construction projects has become increasingly difficult to obtain, and bonding companies are denying or restricting coverage to an increasing number of contractors. Some sureties have required us to post collateral, guarantees, agreements of indemnity and letters of credit to secure the performance and surety bonds. We may not be able to maintain a sufficient level of bonding capacity, which could preclude us from being able to bid for a number of contracts. If we are unable to obtain surety bonds, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Failure of our subcontractors to properly and effectively perform their services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our energy efficiency solutions. Our success depends on our ability to provide quality, reliable energy efficiency solutions in a timely manner, which in part requires the proper removal and installation of lighting, heating, ventilation and air conditioning and other products. A portion of our energy efficiency solutions are installed by contractors or subcontractors. Any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in our energy efficiency solutions caused by improper installation by our subcontractors could cause us to have difficulty retaining current clients and attracting new clients. Such delays could also result in additional costs that could affect the profit margin of our projects. In addition, our brand, reputation and growth could be negatively impacted. A decrease in electric retail rates could lessen demand for our energy efficiency solutions. Our services and technologies have the greatest sales and profit potential in areas where commercial electric rates are relatively high. However, retail electric rates for commercial establishments in the United States may not remain at their current levels. If there is overbuilding of power generating stations in certain regions of the United States, wholesale power prices may decrease in the future. Because the price of commercial retail electric power is largely attributed to the wholesale cost of power, it is reasonable to expect that commercial retail rates may decrease as well. In addition, much of the wholesale cost of power is directly related to the price of certain fuels, such as natural gas, oil and coal. If the prices of those fuels decrease, the prices of the wholesale cost of power may also decrease. This could result in lower electric retail rates and reduced demand for our energy efficiency solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The failure to effectively maintain, upgrade and sell our proprietary technologies could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A recent effort to upgrade the eMAC technology has taken significantly longer and cost more than initially anticipated. We incurred approximately $2 million over the past four years in research and development costs in connection with the eMAC upgrades. The delay has adversely affected eMAC sales, resulting in significant losses in our Energy Technology segment which contributed to the impairment of its goodwill. This situation has also diverted a significant amount of management’s attention from the operation of our other businesses. We are currently evaluating several alternatives for this business, including selling it or shutting it down. If the steps we take to address the situation prove ineffective we may continue to experience losses and a drain on our management and cash resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we choose to keep the business, maintenance of proprietary technology must be effectively addressed in the future or it could impact our sales and profitability. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to integrate the recent AEM acquisition successfully. We are currently integrating the operations of AEM that we acquired in June 2008. We may experience difficulties in managing the integration process, including the following: • integrating acquired operations and products with our existing operations and products; • meeting operating expectations for the acquisition; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse impact on earnings of amortization or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to the acquisition; • retaining key personnel; and • establishing effective internal financial controls over the AEM business. These difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which could decrease our profitability and make it more difficult for us to grow our business. These difficulties could also result in a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, the potential risks associated with the AEM acquisition may necessitate additional financing which could result in increased debt or the issuance of additional equity securities, which may be dilutive to our existing stockholders and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our management fails to acquire companies in the future or to effectively negotiate the terms of future acquisitions, our growth may be impaired. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to acquire companies with complementary technologies, products or services. Our management, including our board of directors, will have discretion in identifying and selecting companies to be acquired by us and in structuring and negotiating these acquisitions. Our common stockholders may not have the opportunity to approve these acquisitions. In addition, in making acquisition decisions, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual operating results of any acquired company or the combination with an acquired company may fall significantly short of projections. We may be unable to acquire companies that we identify as targets for various reasons, including: • our inability to interest such companies in a proposed transaction; • our inability to agree on the terms of an acquisition; • our inability to obtain adequate financing; • incompatibility between our management and management of a target company; and • our inability to obtain the approval of the holders of our common stock, if required. 14 Table of Contents If we cannot consummate acquisitions on a timely basis or agree on terms at all, or if we cannot acquire companies with complementary technologies, products or services on terms acceptable to us, our future growth may be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth may be impaired and our current business may suffer if we do not successfully address risks associated with acquisitions. Historically, an important source of our growth and business development has been through acquisitions. Our future growth may depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully identify, acquire and operate other complementary businesses. Any acquisition contemplated or completed by us may result in adverse short term effects on our reported results of operation; divert management’s attention; introduce risks associated with unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; cause the incurrence of additional debt; cause the issuance of additional equity; or introduce contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets, some or all of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, often an acquired company’s performance is largely dependent on a few key people, particularly in smaller companies. If these key people leave the company, become less focused on the business or less motivated to make the business successful after the acquisition, the performance of the acquired company and our combined business may suffer. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, our operations and profitability could be adversely affected. We intend to undertake a number of strategies in an effort to grow our revenue, including through acquisitions. If we are successful, our revenue growth may place significant strain on our limited resources. To properly manage any future revenue growth, we must continue to improve our management, operational, administrative, accounting and financial reporting systems and expand, train and manage our employee base, which may involve significant expenditures and increased operating costs. Due to our limited resources and experience, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and adequately train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our anticipated revenue growth effectively, the quality of our client care may suffer, we may experience client dissatisfaction, reduced future revenue or increased warranty claims, and our expenses could substantially and disproportionately increase. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. The energy efficiency solutions market is highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase and intensify as the energy efficiency solutions market continues to evolve. We face strong competition primarily from lighting and lighting fixture manufacturers, lighting fixture distributors, providers of energy efficiency lighting upgrades and maintenance and small regional providers of energy efficiency solutions. As we continue to integrate the operations of AEM into our business, we expect that we will extend energy efficiency offerings that are currently available to AEM’s public sector clients to our commercial and industrial clients, including mechanical, electrical and water conservation services and building envelope weatherization, and we expect to face additional competition from providers of those services in the commercial and industrial market. We compete primarily on the basis of client service and support, quality and scope of services and products, cost of services and products, ability to service clients on a national level, name recognition and financial resources, our experience and performance track record for services provided. 15 Table of Contents Many of our competitors are better capitalized than we are, have longer operating histories and strong existing client relationships, greater name recognition and more extensive engineering and sales and marketing capabilities. Competitors could focus their substantial resources on developing a competing business model or energy efficiency solutions that may be potentially more attractive to clients than our products or services. In addition, we may face competition from other products or technologies that reduce demand for electricity. Our competitors may also offer energy efficiency solutions at reduced prices in order to improve their competitive positions. If our ESCO clients internally develop sufficient energy implementation capabilities, they may no longer outsource work to us. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain clients, require us to lower our prices in order to remain competitive and reduce our revenue and profitability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The success of our business depends on the market acceptance of our energy efficiency solutions. Our future success depends on commercial acceptance of our energy efficiency solutions. If we are unable to convince current and potential clients of the advantages of our energy efficiency solutions, then our ability to sell our energy efficiency solutions will be limited. In addition, because the energy efficiency solutions market is rapidly evolving, we may not be able to accurately assess the size of the energy efficiency solutions market, and we may have limited insight into trends that may emerge and affect our business. If the market for our energy efficiency solutions does not continue to develop, or if the market does not accept our services and technologies, then our ability to grow our business could be limited and we may not be able to increase or maintain our revenue or profitability. Our success is largely dependent upon the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain highly qualified engineers, sales people and other skilled personnel, and the loss of their services or our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business or to maintain profitable operations. Our continued success depends largely upon the continued availability, contributions, skills, experience and effort of our senior management, including David R. Asplund, our Chief Executive Officer, Daniel W. Parke, our President, John E. O’Rourke, our Chief Operating Officer and Jeffrey R. Mistarz, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. All of the current employment agreements with our senior management team may be terminated by the employee at any time and without notice. While all such agreements, with the exception of Daniel Parke, include noncompetition, non-solicitation and confidentiality covenants, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be enforceable or adequately protect us. The loss of the services of any of these persons might impede our operations or the achievement of our strategic and financial objectives, and we may not be able to attract and retain individuals with the same or similar level of experience or expertise. Additionally, we do not maintain key person life insurance on any member of our senior management. The loss or interruption of the service of members of our senior management or our inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our business, implement our strategy or maintain profitable operations. In addition, to execute our growth strategy and maintain our margins, we must attract and retain highly qualified engineers, other skilled personnel and an effective sales force that can accurately price our clients’ energy efficiency solution contracts. Competition for hiring these individuals is intense, especially with regard to engineers specializing in the energy efficiency solutions market. If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified engineers and other skilled personnel, our business and growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Any internal or external security breaches involving our eMAC technology could harm our reputation, and even the perception of security risks regarding internet data transmission, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our energy efficiency solutions and cause us to lose clients. We and our clients use our eMAC technology to monitor, compile and analyze information related to our clients’ energy use for HVAC and lighting applications. In addition, our technology allows us to remotely control HVAC and lighting equipment at commercial, institutional and industrial locations. Our eMAC technology relies on the secure transmission of data over the Internet for some of its functionality. Well-publicized compromises of Internet security could have the effect of substantially reducing confidence in the Internet as a medium of data transmission. The occurrence or perception of security breaches in eMAC technology or our clients’ concerns about Internet security or the security of our energy efficiency solutions, whether or not they are warranted, could have a material adverse effect on our business, harm our reputation, inhibit market acceptance of the eMAC technology and cause us to lose clients, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our information technology systems fail, or if we experience operation interruptions, then our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems. We rely on those systems generally to manage the day-to-day operation of our business, manage relationships with our clients, monitor our clients’ eMAC systems and maintain our financial and accounting records. The failure of our information technology systems, our inability to successfully maintain and enhance our information technology systems, or any compromise of the integrity or security of the data we generate from our information technology systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, disrupt our business and product development and make us unable, or severely limit our ability, to respond to client demands. In addition, our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: • earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters; • employee or other theft; • attacks by computer viruses or hackers; • power outages; and • computer systems, Internet, telecommunications or data network failure. Any interruption of our information technology systems could result in decreased revenue, increased expenses, increased capital expenditures, client dissatisfaction and potential lawsuits, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Product liability and personal injury claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face exposure to product liability claims in the event that our energy efficiency solutions products fail to perform as expected or cause bodily injury or property damage. Since the majority of our products use electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Particularly because our products some times incorporate new technologies or designs, we cannot predict whether or not product liability claims will be 17 Table of Contents brought against us in the future or result in negative publicity about our business or materially adversely affect our client relations. Further, we face exposure to personal injury claims in the event that an individual is injured as a result of our negligence. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources in the event of a successful claim against us. A successful product liability or personal injury claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our retrofitting process frequently involves responsibility for the removal and disposal of components containing hazardous materials and at times requires that our contractors or subcontractors work in hazardous conditions, either of which could give rise to a claim against us. When we retrofit a client’s facility, we typically assume responsibility for removing and disposing of its existing lighting fixtures. Certain components of these fixtures typically contain trace amounts of mercury and other hazardous materials. Older components may also contain trace amounts of polychlorinated biphenyls (“PCBs”). We currently rely on licensed contractors to remove the components containing such hazardous materials at the client job site. The contractors then arrange for the disposal of such components at a licensed disposal facility. Failure by such contractors to remove or dispose of the components containing these hazardous materials in a safe, effective and lawful manner could give rise to liability for us, or could expose our workers or other persons to these hazardous materials, which could result in claims against us. Further, our workers are sometimes required to work in hazardous environments that present a risk of serious personal injury which could result in claims against us. A successful personal injury claim against us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our available insurance limits could require us to make significant payments of damages and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The future trading market for our common stock may not be active on a consistent basis and the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations. Trading in our common stock has been limited and, at times, volatile since our shares were listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in February 2008. The trading volume of our common stock in the future depends in part on our ability to increase our revenue and reduce or eliminate our operating losses. If we are unable to achieve these goals, the trading market for our common stock may be negatively affected, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. An active trading market for our common stock may not develop or, if developed, be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock may also fluctuate as a result of: • variations in our operating results; • announcements by us, our competitors or others of significant business developments, changes in client relationships, acquisitions or expansion plans; • analysts’ earnings estimates, ratings and research reports; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • speculation in the press; 18 Table of Contents • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as sales promotions or acquisitions; • actions by institutional and other stockholders; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; or • domestic and international economic factors and trends, some of which may be unrelated to our performance. The stock markets, in general, periodically experience volatility that is sometimes unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. In the past, following a period of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company. Because of the potential volatility of our common stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. Due to the concentration of holdings of our stock, a limited number of investors may be able to control matters requiring common stockholder approval or could cause our stock price to decline through future sales because they beneficially own a large percentage of our common stock. There were 12,817,009 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 9, 2009, of which a total of 13 investors beneficially own in the aggregate approximately 84%, which does not include Series A-1 preferred stock which is convertible into common stock and votes with the common stock on an as converted basis. As a result of their significant ownership, these investors may have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors, a sale of substantially all of our assets, a merger between us and another entity or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation, as amended. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Also, in the event of a sale of our business, these investors could be able to seek to receive a control premium to the exclusion of other common stockholders. A significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock, including the shares beneficially owned by these holders, can be sold in the public market from time to time, subject to limitations imposed by federal securities laws. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares of common stock by these investors or other stockholders in the public market or due to the perception that these sales could occur. This could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our equity securities or for you to sell your shares if you choose to do so. The large concentration of our shares held by this small group of stockholders could result in increased volatility in our stock price due to the limited number of shares available in the market. 19 Table of Contents Raising additional capital or consummation of additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could dilute your ownership interest. We may find it necessary to raise capital again some time in the future or to consummate additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities. If we raise additional funds in the future through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution of their present equity ownership position and voting rights. The recent conversion of our convertible note due to Mr. Kiphart into shares of Series A-1 preferred stock will result in additional dilution if the preferred stock is converted into shares of our common stock. Depending on the number of shares issued and the terms and conditions of the issuance, new equity securities could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Depending on the terms, common stock holders may not have approval rights with respect to such issuances. We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by cyclical factors outside of our control. In addition, we recognize revenue on many of our contracts once the project is substantially complete, resulting in intermittent periods of fluctuating revenue. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to vary from quarter to quarter in the future. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, these fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations and/or have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If the price of our common stock falls significantly we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts covering us downgrade their estimates or evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents 