Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future.We experienced net losses of $317.7 million, $785.1 million and $238.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis or at all. Our strategic objectives depend on our ability to successfully and cost-effectively operate our markets, on our ability to forecast and respond appropriately to changes in the competitive and economic environment, on the successful expansion of our distribution channels, and on customer acceptance of our Cricket product and service offerings. If we fail to attract additional customers for our Cricket products and services and fail to achieve consistent profitability in the future, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.We May Not Be Successful in Increasing Our Customer Base Which Would Negatively Affect Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook.Our growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis has varied substantially in the past. We believe that this uneven growth generally reflects seasonal trends in customer activity, promotional activity, competition in the wireless telecommunications market, our launch of network services in new markets and varying national economic conditions. Our current business plans assume that we will continue to increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. However, we experienced net decreases in our total customers of 111,718 and 199,949 in the second and third quarters of 2010, respectively, and a net decrease in our total customers of 103,140 in the second quarter of 2011. Our ability to continue to grow our customer base and to achieve the customer penetration levels we currently believe are possible in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including, among other things, increased competition from existing or new competitors, higher-than-anticipated churn, our inability to manage or increase our network capacity to meet increasing customer demand, unfavorable economic conditions (which may have a disproportionate negative impact on portions of our customer base), our inability to successfully expand our distribution channels, changes in the demographics of our markets, adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment and other factors that may limit our ability to grow our customer base. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, our current business plans and financial outlook may be harmed.We Face Significant Competition Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for Cricket Service.The wireless telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, voice-over-internet-protocol service providers, traditional landline service providers, cable companies and mobile satellite service providers. Many of our competitors have greater name and brand recognition, larger spectrum holdings, larger footprints, access to greater amounts of capital, greater technical, sales, marketing and distribution resources and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. These advantages may allow our competitors to provide service offerings with more extensive features and options than those we currently provide, offer the latest and most popular devices through exclusive vendor arrangements, market to broader customer segments and offer service over larger geographic areas than we can, offer bundled service offerings which include landline phone, television and internet services that we are not able to duplicate, and purchase equipment, supplies, devices and services at lower prices than we can. As device selection and pricing become increasingly important to customers, any restriction on our ability to offer customers the latest and most popular devices as a result of exclusive dealings between device manufacturers and our larger competitors could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, advantages that our competitors may have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide voice and data roaming services, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to some carriers' control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry and the attractive growth prospects in the prepaid segment have continued to increase and have caused a number of our competitors to offer competitively-priced unlimited prepaid and postpaid service offerings or increasingly large bundles of minutes of use at increasingly lower prices, which are competing with the predictable and unlimited Cricket Wireless service plans. For example, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless each now offer unlimited service offerings. Sprint Nextel also offers competitively-priced unlimited service offerings under its Boost Unlimited and Virgin Mobile brands, which are similar to our Cricket Wireless service. T-Mobile also offers an 18unlimited plan that is competitively priced with our Cricket Wireless service. In addition, a number of MVNOs offer competitively-priced service offerings. For example, Tracfone Wireless sells wireless offerings in Wal-Mart under its “Straight Talk” brand using a number of carriers' wireless networks. We also face additional competition in the prepaid segment from lifeline service offerings by competitors including Tracfone (through its SafeLink offerings) and Sprint Nextel (through its Assurance Wireless offerings). Lifeline services are available to consumers at reduced costs (and in some cases at no cost) because carriers offering this service receive a subsidy payment from the federal USF program. Moreover, some competitors offer prepaid wireless plans that are being advertised heavily to the same demographic segments we target. These various service offerings have presented, and are expected to continue to present, strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap.In addition to our voice offerings, many companies offer other products and services that compete with those we offer. For example, there are numerous music services that compete with our Muve Music service, including the iTunes service offered by Apple, Inc. and various streaming services offered by Rhapsody, Pandora, Spotify and others. In addition, there are a number of mobile broadband services that compete with our Cricket Broadband service, including those offered by AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless. In addition, Clearwire Corporation has launched unlimited 4G wireless broadband service in a number of markets in which we offer Cricket Broadband. Best Buy also offers a mobile broadband product using Sprint's wireless network. These service offerings have presented, and are expected to continue to present, strong competition in markets in which our service offerings overlap. We may also face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace, many of whom may have significantly more resources than we do. The FCC is pursuing policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses and spectrum available for the provision of voice, data and mobile broadband services in each of our markets, as well as policies to increase the level of intermodal broadband competition. For example, the FCC has adopted rules that allow the partitioning, disaggregation and leasing of wireless licenses, which may increase the number of our competitors. The FCC announced in March 2010, as part of its National Broadband Plan, the goal of making an additional 500 MHz of spectrum available for broadband use within the next 10 years, of which the FCC stated that 300 MHz should be made available for mobile use within five years. The FCC has also adopted policies to allow satellite operators to use portions of their spectrum for ancillary terrestrial use and recently made further changes intended to facilitate the terrestrial use of this spectrum for voice, data and mobile broadband services. Taking advantage of such developments, at least one new entrant, LightSquared, has announced plans to launch a new wholesale, nationwide 4G-LTE wireless broadband network integrated with satellite coverage to allow partners to offer terrestrial-only, satellite-only or integrated satellite-terrestrial services to their customers. The FCC has also permitted the offering of broadband services over power lines. The auction and licensing of new spectrum, the re-purposing of other spectrum or the pursuit of policies designed to encourage broadband adoption across wireline and wireless platforms may result in new or existing competitors acquiring additional capacity, which could allow them to offer services that we may not be able to offer cost effectively, or at all, with the licenses we hold or to which we have access.Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. The evolving competitive landscape negatively impacted our financial and operating results beginning in 2009, resulting in fewer new customers, lower average monthly revenue per customer and increased costs. We substantially revised our product and service offerings beginning in the second half of 2010 to respond to the evolving competitive landscape, including revising the features of a number of our Cricket service offerings, offering “all-inclusive” service plans, eliminating certain late fees we previously charged to customers who reinstated their service after having failed to pay their monthly bill on time, entering into a new wholesale agreement and nationwide data roaming agreement and offering “smartphones” and other new handsets and devices. We believe that these changes to our business have made our product and service offerings more attractive to customers, improved our competitive positioning in the marketplace and improved our financial and operational performance. Since their introduction, these initiatives have also resulted in increased costs, including equipment subsidy for new and upgrading customers and incremental service costs. The extent to which these initiatives will positively impact our future financial and operational results will depend upon continued customer acceptance of our product and service offerings and our ability to retain these customers. The evolving competitive landscape may result in more competitive pricing, slower growth, higher costs and increased customer turnover. Any of these results or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Performance or Ability to Obtain Debt or Equity Financing on Reasonable Terms or at All.Our business and financial performance are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, energy costs and other macro-economic factors. Market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging in recent years. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a long-term downturn, high unemployment, high energy costs, the availability and cost of credit and unstable housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased 19market volatility and economic uncertainty. Concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers, and less liquid credit markets have adversely affected the cost and availability of credit. These factors have led to a decrease in spending in recent years by businesses and consumers alike.Continued market turbulence and weak economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or pass a credit check, our service is available to a broad customer base and may be attractive to a market segment that is more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. As a result, during general economic downturns, we may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this base for our services and existing customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay. For example, high unemployment levels have historically impacted our customer base, especially the lower-income segment of our customer base, by decreasing their discretionary income and affecting their ability to maintain service. Continued weak economic conditions and tight credit conditions may also adversely impact our vendors and dealers, some of which have filed for or may be considering bankruptcy, or may experience cash flow or liquidity problems, any of which could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market or sell our products and services. Sustained difficult, or worsening, general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, U.S. credit markets have in recent years experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and resulting in the unavailability of some forms of debt financing. Uncertainty in the credit or capital markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. These general economic conditions, combined with intensified competition in the wireless telecommunications industry and other factors, have also adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, which could significantly limit our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.If We Experience Low or Negative Rates of Customer Acquisition or High Rates of Customer Turnover, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease.Our rates of customer acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of competitive factors in addition to the macro-economic factors described above, including the size of our service areas, network performance and reliability issues, our device and service offerings, customer perceptions of our services, customer care quality and wireless number portability. Managing these factors and customers' expectations is essential in attracting and retaining customers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new customers and address customer turnover, we cannot assure you that these programs or our strategies to address customer acquisition and turnover will be successful. A high rate of customer turnover or low or negative rate of new customer acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of customers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We May Be Unable to Obtain or Maintain the Roaming and Wholesale Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive.Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. The networks we operate do not, by themselves, provide national coverage and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming and wholesale services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with several carriers for the majority of our roaming services and generally on one key carrier for 3G data roaming services. We have also entered into a wholesale agreement which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. Most of our roaming agreements cover voice but not data services and some of these agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. We do not currently have 4G data agreements with any carriers that are currently providing these services.The FCC has adopted rules requiring commercial mobile radio service providers to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC has also adopted rules generally requiring carriers to offer data roaming services. These orders, however, do not provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice, SMS text messaging or data services and require that roaming complaints be resolved on a case-by-case basis, based on a non-exclusive list of factors that can be taken into account in determining the reasonableness 20of particular conduct or rates. In addition, the FCC's data roaming order is not final and is subject to further reconsideration by the FCC and an appeal in federal court. Verizon Wireless has challenged the FCC's data roaming order and rules in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit and requested that the rules be vacated, and the order is also subject to a petition for reconsideration at the FCC. In light of the current FCC rules, orders and proceedings, if we were unexpectedly to lose the benefit of one or more key roaming or wholesale agreements, we may be unable to obtain similar replacement agreements and as a result may be unable to continue providing nationwide voice and 3G data roaming services for our customers or may be unable to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. In addition, we may be unable to obtain cost-effective roaming arrangements for 4G data roaming services. Our inability to obtain new or replacement roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We May Not Realize the Expected Benefits from or Meet the Revenue Commitments under Our Wholesale Agreement or Any Other Agreements We May Enter into.In August 2010, we entered into a wholesale agreement with an affiliate of Sprint Nextel which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. We and Sprint amended the agreement in July 2011 to, among other things, revise the amount of the annual minimum revenue commitments for the years 2011 and 2013. We have agreed, among other things, to provide a minimum of $300 million of revenue under the agreement, as amended, over its initial five-year term (against which we can credit up to $100 million of service revenue under other existing commercial arrangements between the companies), with a minimum of $20 million of revenue to be provided in 2011, a minimum of $75 million of revenue to be provided in 2012, a minimum of $80 million of revenue to be provided in 2013, a minimum of $75 million of revenue to be provided in 2014 and a minimum of $50 million of revenue to be provided in 2015. Any revenue we provide in a given year above the minimum revenue commitment for that particular year will be credited to the next succeeding year. However, to the extent our revenues were to fall beneath the applicable commitment amount for any given year, excess revenues from a subsequent year could not be carried back to offset such shortfall. In addition, in the event we are involved in a change-of-control transaction with another facilities-based wireless carrier with annual revenues of at least $500 million in the fiscal year preceding the date of the change of control agreement (other than MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS), either we (or our successor in interest) or Sprint may terminate the agreement within 60 days following the closing of such a transaction. In connection with any such termination, we (or our successor in interest) would be required to pay to Sprint a specified percentage of the remaining aggregate minimum revenue commitment, with the percentage to be paid depending on the year in which the change of control agreement was entered into, beginning at 40% for any such agreement entered into in 2011, 30% for any such agreement entered into in 2012, 20% for any such agreement entered into in 2013 and 10% for any such agreement entered into in 2014 or 2015. In the event that we are involved in a change-of-control transaction with MetroPCS during the term of the wholesale agreement, then the agreement would continue in full force and effect, subject to certain revisions, including, without limitation, an increase to the total minimum revenue commitment to $350 million, taking into account any revenue contributed by Cricket prior to the date thereof.We entered into this new wholesale agreement to enable us to offer enhanced products and services and to strengthen and expand our distribution. However, there are risks and uncertainties that could impact our ability to realize the expected benefits from this arrangement. In 2011, we utilized services from Sprint at levels which substantially satisfied our $20 million minimum revenue commitment. However, in the future we may be unable to expand our retail distribution to the extent that we have planned, and customers may not accept our products and service offerings at the levels we expect.As we continue to expand the size and scope of our business, we may enter into agreements with other vendors that contain significant purchase or revenue commitments to enable us to obtain more favorable overall terms and conditions for attractive products and services. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue to satisfy the annual and aggregate minimum revenue commitments under the wholesale agreement or any future agreement or that prices for wireless services will not decline to levels below what we have negotiated to pay. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew the wholesale agreement or any future agreement on terms that will be acceptable to us. If we are unable to attract new wireless customers and increase our distribution, our ability to derive benefits from our wholesale agreement or any future agreement we enter into could be limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected if Our Internal Controls Are Not Effective.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, each year we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control 21over financial reporting.In our quarterly and annual reports (as amended) for the periods ended from December 31, 2006 through September 30, 2008, we reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which related to the design of controls over the preparation and review of the account reconciliations and analysis of revenues, cost of revenues and deferred revenues, and ineffective testing of changes made to our revenue and billing systems in connection with the introduction or modification of service offerings. In addition, we previously reported that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2006. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures.Although we believe we took appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future or that no material weakness will result from any difficulties, errors, delays or disruptions while we implement and transition to significant new internal systems, including the recent transition to our new customer billing system. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed.Our Primary Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term.A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers unlimited wireless services for a flat rate without requiring them to enter into a fixed-term contract or pass a credit check. We provide nationwide voice, data and mobile broadband wireless services through our own Cricket network footprint and through roaming agreements that we have entered into with other carriers. In addition, we have entered into a wholesale agreement which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. Our strategy of offering unlimited wireless services nationwide may not prove to be successful in the long term. From time to time, we also evaluate our product and service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may modify, change, adjust or discontinue our product and service offerings or offer new products and services on a permanent, trial or promotional basis. We cannot assure you that these product or service offerings will be successful or prove to be profitable.We Are Subject to Numerous Surcharges, Taxes and Fees from Federal, State and Local Governments, and the Applicability and Amount of These Fees Can Be Uncertain. We calculate and remit surcharges, taxes and fees to numerous federal, state and local jurisdictions in connection with the services we provide. These fees include federal USF fees and common carrier regulatory fees. In addition, many state and local governments impose various surcharges, taxes and fees on our activities, including with respect to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. In many cases, the applicability and method of calculating these surcharges, taxes and fees may be uncertain, and jurisdictions may contest whether we have correctly assessed and remitted those amounts. In the event that we have incorrectly assessed and remitted amounts that were due, we could be subject to fines and penalties which could materially impact our financial condition. In addition, although we remit applicable surcharges, taxes and fees that are due with respect to the services we provide, we do not recover these amounts (other than sales taxes) as additional charges to customers subscribing to our “all-inclusive” service plans, which are priced to include telecommunications taxes and certain other fees. In the event that federal, state and/or local municipalities were to significantly increase taxes and regulatory fees on our services, it could have a significant adverse effect on our margins and financial and operational results.If We Are Unable to Manage Our Growth, Our Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted.We have experienced substantial growth in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future in our markets. In recent years, we have pursued opportunities to strengthen and expand our business. These activities have included the broadening of our portfolio of products and services, including through the introduction of “all-inclusive” service plans and our Muve Music service. We have also pursued activities to strengthen and expand the available network service area for Cricket products and services, which have included enhancing network coverage and capacity in our existing markets, entering into agreements to provide Cricket customers with nationwide voice and data roaming services as well as a wholesale agreement which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. In addition, we currently plan to deploy LTE network technology across approximately two-thirds of our current network footprint over the next two to three years. We have also pursued activities to continue to strengthen our growing retail presence in our existing markets and expand our distribution nationwide. In 2011, we significantly expanded our nationwide sales presence by offering Cricket products 22and services in thousands of additional nationwide retail locations, and we expect to continue expanding our distribution in the future.The management of our growth requires, among other things, continued development of our financial controls, budgeting and forecasting processes and information management systems, stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and its growth, increased spending associated with marketing activities and the acquisition of new customers, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. Furthermore, the implementation of new or expanded systems or platforms to accommodate our growth, and the transition to such systems or platforms from our existing infrastructure, could result in unpredictable technological or other difficulties. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development, to effectively manage our markets, to enhance our processes and management systems or to timely and adequately resolve any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the growth in our markets, the integration of newly-acquired markets or businesses, the introduction of new device offerings such as the “smartphones” and the continued expansion of our distribution nationwide require continued management and control of our device inventories. From time to time, we have experienced inventory shortages, most notably with certain of our strongest-selling devices, and these shortages have had the effect of limiting customer activity. We have implemented a new inventory management system and have undertaken other efforts to address inventory forecasting. In addition, we are currently considering expanding the role of a current vendor to assist us with device forecasting, fulfillment and related tasks. However, there can be no assurance that we will not experience inventory shortages in the future. Any failure to effectively manage and control our device inventories could adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Have Made Significant Investments, and May Continue to Invest, in Ventures That We Do Not Control.We own an 85% non-controlling membership interest in Savary Island. Savary Island is a “very small business” designated entity under FCC regulations, which holds wireless spectrum in the upper Midwest portion of the U.S. and which leases a portion of that spectrum to us. Our participation in Savary Island is structured as a non-controlling membership interest in accordance with FCC rules and regulations. We have agreements with our venture partner in Savary Island that are intended to allow us to participate to a limited extent in the development of the business through the venture. However, these agreements do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of the venture, and may be terminated for convenience by the controlling member. The FCC's rules restrict our ability to acquire controlling membership interests in designated entities during the period that such entities must maintain their eligibility as a designated entity, as defined by the FCC.The entities or persons that control Savary Island or any other non-controlled ventures in which we may invest may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours which could result in the venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, if any of the members of any such ventures files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to perform its obligations or does not manage the venture effectively, or if the venture files for bankruptcy, we may lose our equity investment in, and any present or future opportunity to acquire the assets (including wireless licenses) of, such entity (although a substantial portion of our investment in Savary Island consists of secured debt).The FCC has implemented rules and policies to ensure that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. For example, designated entity structures are subject to a requirement that they seek approval for any event that might affect their ongoing eligibility (for example, changes in agreements that the FCC has previously reviewed), annual reporting requirements and a commitment by the FCC to audit each designated entity at least once during the license term. While we believe that our Savary Island venture is in compliance with these rules, we cannot predict whether and to what extent the FCC will seek to further modify the designated entity rules. In addition, third parties and the federal government have in the past challenged certain designated entity structures, alleging violations of federal qui tam and other laws and seeking significant monetary damages. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes, federal court litigation surrounding designated entity structures, increased regulatory scrutiny or third party or government lawsuits will affect our current or future business ventures, including our arrangements with Savary Island, or our or Savary Island's current license holdings or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. Our failure to comply with the FCC's designated rules could lead to fines or the mandatory restructuring by the agency of our designated entity venture, and in extreme cases, license revocation, third-party lawsuits and/or criminal penalties. 23We May Have Difficulty Managing and Integrating New Joint Ventures or Partnerships That We Form or Companies or Businesses That We Acquire.In addition to growing our business through the operation of our existing and new markets, we may also expand our business by entering into joint ventures or partnerships with others or acquiring all or portions of other wireless communications companies or complementary businesses. For example, in October 2010, we and Pocket contributed substantially all of our respective wireless spectrum and operating assets in the South Texas region to STX Wireless to create a joint venture to provide Cricket service in the South Texas region, with Cricket receiving a 75.75% controlling membership interest in the venture and Pocket receiving a 24.25% non-controlling membership interest.Entering into joint ventures and partnerships or acquiring other companies or businesses may create numerous risks and uncertainties, including unanticipated costs and liabilities, possible difficulties associated with the integration of the parties' various operations and the potential diversion of management's time and attention from our existing operations. In addition, the consolidation of operating assets and operations following an acquisition or the formation of a joint venture may result in significant costs. For example, during 2011 we integrated the Cricket and Pocket operating assets in the South Texas region so that the combined network and retail operations of the STX Wireless joint venture operate more efficiently. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred approximately $26.4 million of integration charges relating primarily to certain leased cell site and retail store locations contributed to STX Wireless that it no longer uses, which were recorded in impairments and other charges within our consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2011, integration activities were substantially complete and we do not expect to incur additional significant integration costs. Our failure to effectively manage and integrate STX Wireless or other new partnerships that we may enter into or companies or businesses that we could acquire could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations.We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, our total outstanding indebtedness was $3,220.7 million, including $250 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2014, $300 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2015, $21.9 million in principal amount of a non-negotiable promissory note maturing in 2015, $1,100 million in aggregate principal amount of senior secured notes due 2016 and $1,600 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2020.Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to service all of our debt obligations;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, network build-out and other activities, including acquisitions and general corporate purposes;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness.Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses associated with the launch of new product or service offerings or other business investment initiatives will decrease operating income before depreciation and amortization, or OIBDA, and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness.Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We May Incur Additional Indebtedness. This Could Further Increase the Risks Associated with Our Leverage.The terms of the indentures governing Cricket's secured and unsecured senior notes permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. The indenture governing Leap's convertible senior notes does 24not limit our ability to incur debt.We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business investment initiatives, which could consist of debt financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. This universal shelf registration statement is scheduled to expire in March 2012, and we expect to file a similar registration statement in the near future to register various debt, equity and other securities.If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. In addition, depending on the timing and extent of any additional indebtedness that we could incur and our then-current consolidated leverage ratio, such additional amounts could potentially result in the issuance of adverse credit ratings affecting us and/or our outstanding indebtedness. For example, following the issuance of $400 million of additional 7.75% senior notes due 2020 in May 2011, our unsecured debt was downgraded by one credit rating agency, although we did not experience any changes to our overall credit rating. Any future adverse credit ratings could make it more difficult or expensive for us to borrow in the future and could affect the trading prices of our secured and unsecured senior notes, our convertible senior notes and our common stock.To Service Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control.Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future financing will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay or service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or at all. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient for these purposes, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness.We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, including indebtedness under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes. Our $250 million of 4.50% unsecured convertible senior notes is due in 2014, our $300 million of 10.0% unsecured senior notes is due in 2015, our $1,100 million of 7.75% senior secured notes is due in 2016, and our $1,600 million of 7.75% unsecured senior notes is due in 2020. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.Covenants in Our Indentures or in Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business.The indentures governing Cricket's secured and unsecured senior notes contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to make distributions or other payments to our investors or subordinated creditors unless we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, these indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to:•incur additional indebtedness; •create liens or other encumbrances; •place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries;•pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments;•issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; •issue guarantees; 25•sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and •make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity.The restrictions in the indentures governing Cricket's secured and unsecured senior notes could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar or more onerous restrictions.Under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder's notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of secured or unsecured senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.If we default under any of the indentures governing our secured or unsecured senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a waiver should a default occur. Any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, and we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes.Our Ability to Use Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards to Reduce Future Possible Tax Payments Could Be Negatively Impacted if There Is an “Ownership Change” (as Defined Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code); Our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan May Not Be Effective to Prevent an Ownership Change. We have substantial federal and state net operating losses, or NOLs, for income tax purposes. Subject to certain requirements, we may “carry forward” our federal NOLs for up to 20 years to offset future taxable income and reduce our income tax liability. For state income tax purposes, the NOL carryforward period ranges from five to 20 years. At December 31, 2011, we had federal and state NOLs of approximately $2.5 billion (which begin to expire in 2022 for federal income tax purposes and of which $37.2 million will expire at the end of 2012 for state income tax purposes). While these NOL carryforwards have a potential to be used to offset future ordinary taxable income and reduce future cash tax liabilities by approximately $973.6 million, our ability to utilize these NOLs will depend upon the availability of future taxable income during the carryforward period and, as such, there is no assurance we will be able to realize such tax savings. Our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited if we were to experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. In general terms, an ownership change can occur whenever there is a cumulative shift in the ownership of a company by more than 50 percentage points by one or more “5% stockholders” within a three-year period. The occurrence of such a change in our ownership would generally limit the amount of NOL carryforwards we could utilize in a given year to the aggregate fair market value of Leap common stock immediately prior to the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change.The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred for purposes of Section 382 is complex and requires significant judgment. The occurrence of such an ownership change would accelerate cash tax payments we would be required to make and likely result in a substantial portion of our NOLs expiring before we could fully utilize them. As a result, any restriction on our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and future cash flows.In 2011, trading in Leap common stock increased the risk of an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Accordingly, on August 30, 2011, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to help deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that could result in an ownership change under Section 382 and thus help preserve our ability to use our NOL carryforwards. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that would result in a stockholder owning 4.99% or more of Leap common stock (as calculated under Section 382), or any existing holder of 4.99% or more of Leap common stock acquiring additional shares, by substantially diluting the ownership interest of any such stockholder unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our board of directors. Because the number of shares of Leap common stock outstanding at any particular time for purposes of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is determined in accordance with Section 382, it may differ from the number of shares that we report as outstanding in our SEC filings. 26Although the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an adverse ownership change under Section 382, the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan may not prevent such an ownership change from occurring and does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as sales of Leap common stock by certain greater than 5% stockholders or transactions that occurred prior to the adoption of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan (including by any greater than 5% stockholders who have not disclosed their ownership under Schedules 13D or 13G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an ownership change under Section 382 will not occur and significantly limit the use of our NOLs. A Significant Portion of Our Assets Consists of Wireless Licenses, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.As of December 31, 2011, 40.1% of our assets consisted of wireless licenses (including assets held for sale), goodwill and other intangible assets. The value of our assets will depend on market conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. While the value of these assets is determined by using the market approach for purposes of our impairment testing, those values may differ from what would ultimately be realized by us in a sales transaction and that difference may be material. By their nature, our intangible assets may not be readily saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for us to sell, or for any remedies to be exercised by our lenders with respect to, our wireless licenses, and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses.The Wireless Industry Is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change. We Plan to Deploy LTE Network Technology, Which Will Require Us to Make Significant Capital Investments.The wireless communications industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands.Competitors have begun providing competing wireless telecommunications service through the use of next-generation technologies, such as LTE, WiMax and HSPA+. We currently plan to deploy LTE network technology across approximately two-thirds of our current network footprint over the next two to three years. We cannot predict, however, which of the many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position. The evolutionary path that we have selected or may select in the future may not be demanded by customers or provide the advantages that we expect. If such services are not commercially accepted, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the cost of implementing or competing against alternative or future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes.Our deployment of LTE will require significant capital investment. We successfully launched a commercial trial market in late 2011 and plan to cover up to approximately 25 million POPs with LTE in 2012. Capital expenditures for the deployment of LTE are currently anticipated to be less than $10 per covered POP. Approximately half of the estimated capital expenditures for LTE deployment are included in our capital expense budget for the ongoing maintenance and development of our network. The actual amount we spend to deploy LTE each year will depend upon multiple factors, including the scope and pace of our deployment activities. We may, however, have unanticipated or unforeseen costs in connection with the deployment of LTE and the maintenance of our network.In addition, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum or take other actions to enable us to provide LTE at service levels that will meet future customer expectations. We currently have an average of 23 MHz of spectrum in the markets we operate, which generally include an initial spectrum reserve that we plan to use to deploy LTE. The national wireless carriers against which we compete generally have greater spectrum capacity than we do in the markets in which we plan to launch LTE. Because the efficiency of an LTE network and the peak speeds that it can deliver depend upon the amount of contiguous spectrum that is available, these competitors may be able to offer faster speeds for their next-generation services or operate those networks more efficiently than we can. As a result, we may be required to take various actions to meet consumer demand, including acquiring additional spectrum, entering into third-party wholesale or roaming arrangements, leasing additional cell sites, spending additional capital to deploy equipment or other actions. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions at reasonable costs, on a timely basis or at all.We cannot assure you that widespread demand for advanced data services will develop at a price level that will allow us to earn a reasonable return on our investment. In addition, there are risks that other wireless carriers on whose networks our customers roam may change their technology to other technologies that are incompatible with ours. As a result, the ability of our customers 27to roam on such carriers' wireless networks could be adversely affected. If these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to negotiate or maintain cost-effective data roaming agreements on LTE or other data networks, and we are not able to assure you that customer devices that operate on LTE or other data networks will be available at costs that will make them attractive to customers.The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting, Integrating and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed.Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson. Our CFO, Walter Z. Berger, will be resigning as our executive vice president and CFO, effective February 29, 2012, and Leap's board of directors has appointed William D. Ingram, our executive vice president, strategy, as acting CFO, effective March 1, 2012. In February 2012, we also hired Robert A. Strickland as our executive vice president and chief technical officer. In early 2011 we hired new members of senior management to help support our corporate and field operations, which included the appointment of Raymond J. Roman as our executive vice president and chief operating officer and Robert A. Young as our executive vice president, field operations. We also implemented a new regional president structure to oversee customer and sales activity, hiring new members of management to oversee two of our three new regions. As several members of senior management have been hired relatively recently, it may take time to fully integrate these individuals into their new roles. In addition, if we were to lose the services of key individuals in the future, any such departures could materially and adversely impact how we manage and operate our business. We may also have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance.Risks Associated With Wireless Devices Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture devices or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their devices to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the devices we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with devices to protect us from direct losses associated with product liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective.Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research of Cancer has also stated that exposure to wireless handsets may be carcinogenic. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, anti-lock brakes, hearing aids and other medical devices. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that have overheated. Malfunctions have caused at least one major handset manufacturer to recall certain batteries used in its handsets, including batteries in a handset sold by Cricket and other wireless providers.Concerns over possible health and safety risks associated with radio frequency emissions and defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services, or result in regulatory restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, which could increase our operating expenses. Concerns over possible safety risks could decrease the demand for our services. If one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by a manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions.There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless devices while operating vehicles or equipment. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that has been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service. 28We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure or Inability by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Products or Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products and services we purchase or use. However, we currently rely on one key vendor for billing services, a single vendor to support the platform for our Muve Music service, a single vendor for the operation of our network operations center, a limited number of vendors for device forecasting, fulfillment and related tasks, a limited number of vendors for voice and data communications transport services and a limited number of vendors for payment processing services. In addition, we are currently considering expanding the role of a current vendor to assist us with device forecasting, fulfillment and related tasks.In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors, service providers or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply or provide services to us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted or our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be significantly adversely affected. Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier or service provider to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers or service providers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.System Failures, Security Breaches, Business Disruptions and Unauthorized Use or Interference with Our Network or Other Systems Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation.Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power surges or outages, natural disasters, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing or similar events. In the past, our operations in certain markets have been adversely affected by hurricanes and related weather systems. Unanticipated problems at our facilities or with our technical infrastructure, system or equipment failures, hardware or software failures or defects, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause network service interruptions. Unauthorized access to or use of customer or account information, including credit card or other personal data, could result in harm to our customers and legal actions against us, and could damage our reputation. In addition, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, fires and other unforeseen natural disasters or events could materially disrupt our business operations or the provision of Cricket service in one or more markets. Costs we incur to restore, repair or replace our network or technical infrastructure, as well as costs associated with detecting, monitoring or reducing the incidence of unauthorized use, may be substantial and increase our cost of providing service. Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, point of sale, inventory management, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We Have Upgraded a Number of Significant Business Systems, Including Our Customer Billing System, and Any Unanticipated Difficulties, Delays or Interruptions with the Transition Could Negatively Impact Our Business.During recent years, we have upgraded a number of our significant, internal business systems, including implementing a new inventory management system, a new point-of-sale system and a new customer billing system. The implementation of significant new systems often involves delays and disruptions in connection with the transition to and operation of the new systems.From time to time since the launch of our customer billing system in the second quarter of 2011, we have experienced intermittent disruptions with certain aspects of the system, which have limited our ability to activate new customers and to provide account services to current customers. We believe that these system issues have had the effect of reducing our gross customer additions and increasing churn, and these system issues could impact customer additions and churn in the first half of 2012. Although we believe that we have largely identified the cause of these disruptions and are implementing plans to remedy them, we cannot assure you that we will not experience additional disruptions with our customer billing system in the future. Future significant difficulties in operating our customer billing system or other new systems could materially impact our ability to attract and retain customers or to timely and accurately record, process and report information that is important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience decreased gross customer additions, higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs or could suffer a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, any of which 29could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We May Not Be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights.We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which offer only limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed.We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide us with any competitive advantages.In addition, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. Our inability to secure trademark or service mark protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Use Equipment, Software, Technology and Content in the Operation of Our Business Which May Subject Us to Third-Party Infringement Claims.The technologies used in the telecommunications industry are protected by and subject to a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers based on our or their general business operations and the equipment, software, technology or other content that we or they use or provide. Due in part to the expansion and development of our business operations, we have become subject to increased amounts of litigation, including disputes alleging patent and other intellectual property infringement relating to the operation of our networks and our sale of handsets and other devices. See “Part I - Item 3. Legal Proceedings - Patent Litigation” of this report for a description of certain patent infringement lawsuits that have been brought against us. If plaintiffs in any patent litigation matters brought against us were to prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, and we could be required to alter the way we conduct business to avoid future infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we rely on third-party intellectual property and digital content to provide certain of our wireless services to customers, including Muve Music, an unlimited music download service we offer that is designed specifically for mobile handsets. The Muve Music service requires us to license music and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot guarantee that these licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our licensing arrangements with these third parties are generally short-term in nature and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to continue to offer customers a wide variety of content at reasonable costs to us could limit the success of our Muve Music service. In addition, we could become subject to infringement claims and potential liability for damages or royalties related to music and intellectual property rights of third parties, including as a result of any unauthorized access to the third-party content we have licensed.We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and vendors who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to help protect us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not have indemnification arrangements with all of our partners and suppliers. In addition, to the extent that there is an indemnification arrangement in place, depending on the nature and scope of a possible claim, we may not be entitled to seek indemnification under the terms of the agreement. In addition, we cannot guarantee that the financial condition of an indemnifying party would be sufficient to protect us against all losses associated with infringement claims or that we would be fully indemnified against all possible losses associated with a possible claim. In addition, our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that could prevent or make it more expensive for them to supply us with the products and services we require to run our business, which could have the effect of slowing or limiting our ability to introduce products and services to our customers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim against us or a supplier is valid or successful, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or requiring us to 30redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, infringement claims against our suppliers could also require us to purchase products and services at higher prices or from different suppliers and could adversely affect our business by delaying our ability to offer certain products and services to our customers.Action by Congress or Government Agencies May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services.The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. In addition, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. We also cannot assure you that Congress will not amend the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, or enact legislation in a manner that could be adverse to us.Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee's capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity (as is the case with Leap's ownership and control of subsidiaries that hold FCC licenses), up to 25% of that entity's capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our wireless licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or could take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage in order to avoid the loss of our licenses, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such a ruling or that any other actions we may take would be successful.In addition, legislative or regulatory action could be taken which could limit our ability to use certain foreign vendors to supply us with equipment, materials or other services that we use in our business operations. For example, we have previously purchased equipment used in our wireless network from a Chinese company. Members of the U.S. Congress and certain regulatory agencies have raised concerns about American companies purchasing equipment and software from Chinese companies, including Chinese telecommunications companies, including concerns relating to the U.S. trade imbalance with China, alleged violations of intellectual property rights by Chinese companies and potential security risks posed by U.S. companies purchasing technical equipment and software from Chinese companies. Any legislative or regulatory action that might restrict us from purchasing equipment or software from Chinese or other foreign companies could require changes in our equipment procurement activities.The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, prohibits the circumvention of technological measures employed to protect a copyrighted work, or access control. However, under the DMCA, the Copyright Office has the authority to exempt for three years certain activities from copyright liability that otherwise might be prohibited by that statute. In July 2010, the Copyright Office granted an exemption to the DMCA to allow circumvention of software locks and other firmware that prohibit a wireless handset from connecting to a wireless network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the wireless handset to another wireless telephone network. The DMCA copyright exemption facilitates our current practice of allowing customers to bring in unlocked, or “reflashed,” phones that they already own and may have used with another wireless carrier, and activate them on our network. To the extent that the Copyright Office determines in the future not to extend this exemption for an extended period of time and this prevents us from “flashing” devices or activating “reflashed” devices on our network, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We also are subject, or potentially subject, to numerous additional rules and requirements, including universal service obligations; number portability requirements; number pooling rules; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; roaming obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rate averaging and integration requirements; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. There are also pending proceedings exploring the imposition of various types of nondiscrimination, open access and broadband management obligations on our devices and networks; the prohibition of device exclusivity; the possible re-imposition of bright-line spectrum aggregation requirements; further regulation of special access used for wireless backhaul services; and the effects of the siting of communications towers on migratory birds, among others. Some of these requirements and pending proceedings (of which the foregoing examples are not an exhaustive list) pose technical and 31operational challenges to which we, and the industry as a whole, have not yet developed clear solutions. These requirements generally are the subject of pending FCC or judicial proceedings, and we are unable to predict how they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition, certain states in which we provide service are considering legislation that would require companies selling prepaid wireless services to verify a customer's identity using government identification. Although we request identification from new customers, we currently do not require them to provide identification in order to initiate service with us, and such a requirement could adversely impact our ability to attract new customers for our services.Our operations are subject to various other laws and regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, other federal agencies and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, legislation or governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business.If Customer Usage of Our Services Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operating Expenses.Our most popular Cricket Wireless service plans bundle unlimited local and U.S. long distance service and unlimited text messaging, with mobile web, 411 services, navigation, data back-up and other features, for a fixed monthly fee to more effectively compete with other telecommunications providers. Our “smartphones” and other new devices use greater amounts of network capacity than the handsets and devices we previously offered. We also offer Cricket Broadband, our unlimited mobile broadband service, and Cricket PAYGo, a pay-as-you-go unlimited prepaid wireless service. In 2011, we successfully launched Muve Music in all our markets, an unlimited music download service designed specifically for mobile handsets. We provide nationwide voice, data, mobile broadband and music download services through our own Cricket network footprint and through roaming and wholesale agreements that we have entered into with other carriers. Customers usage of our wireless services has been significant.If customers exceed expected usage for our voice, data, mobile broadband or music download services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high rates of usage for our services, and we continue to assess and seek to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. We currently manage our network and users of our Cricket Broadband service by limiting throughput speeds if their usage adversely impacts our network or service levels or if usage exceeds certain thresholds. However, if future wireless use by Cricket customers increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then-available capacity of our network, service quality may suffer. In addition, our roaming or wholesale costs may be higher than we anticipate. Depending on the extent of customers' use of our network and roaming or wholesale services we expect to provide in the future, we may be forced to raise the price or alter the service offerings of our wireless or mobile broadband services, further limit data quantities or speeds, otherwise limit the number of new customers for certain services, acquire additional spectrum or incur substantial additional capital expenditures to enhance network capacity or quality.We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or on a Timely Basis.Because we offer unlimited voice, data, mobile broadband and music download services for a flat monthly rate, our customers' average usage of these services per month is substantially above U.S. averages. We intend to meet demand for our services by utilizing spectrally efficient technologies or by entering into roaming or partnering agreements with other carriers. We currently have an average of 23 MHz of spectrum in the markets we operate, which generally include an initial spectrum reserve that we plan to use to deploy LTE. However, we may need to acquire or access additional spectrum in the future to satisfy increasing demand for data and mobile broadband services, to maintain an acceptable grade of service or to provide or support new services or technologies to meet increasing customer demands. In addition, we also may acquire additional spectrum in order to enter new strategic markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost or at all or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC on a timely basis. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on the use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements, that may make it less attractive or uneconomical for us. If such additional spectrum is not available to us when required on reasonable terms or at a reasonable cost, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 32Our and Savary Island's Wireless Licenses Are Subject to Renewal and May Be Revoked in the Event That We Violate Applicable Laws.Our and Savary Island's existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10-year or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our PCS wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that timely files a renewal application, has provided substantial service during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. Historically, the FCC has approved our license renewal applications. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. In addition, if we fail to timely file to renew any wireless license, or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal. Many of our wireless licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, sufficient to meet the build-out or renewal requirements. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. The FCC recently initiated a rulemaking proceeding to re-evaluate, among other things, its wireless license renewal showings and standards and may in this or other proceedings promulgate changes or additional substantial requirements or conditions to its renewal rules, including revising license build-out requirements. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. If any of our wireless licenses were to be revoked or not renewed upon expiration, we would not be permitted to provide services under that license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Wireless Licenses Could Result in Future Impairment Charges.As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of our and Savary Island's wireless licenses (excluding assets held for sale) was approximately $1.8 billion. During the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $0.4 million, $0.8 million and $0.6 million, respectively, with respect to our wireless licenses.The market values of wireless licenses have varied over the last several years, and may vary significantly in the future. Valuation swings could occur for a variety of reasons relating to supply and demand, including:•consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings;•a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or•market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in FCC auctions.In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC's pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, during recent years, the FCC auctioned additional spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in Auction #66 and the 700 MHz band in Auction #73, and has announced that it intends to auction additional spectrum in the future for mobile wireless use. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges.We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We conduct our annual tests for impairment of our wireless licenses during the third quarter of each year. Estimates of the fair value of our wireless licenses are based primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions, pricing trends among historical wireless license transactions, our spectrum holdings within a given market relative to other carriers' holdings and qualitative demographic and economic information concerning the areas that comprise our markets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet.Declines in Our Operating or Financial Performance Could Result in an Impairment of Our Indefinite-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill.We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We also assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. In the third quarter of 2010, in 33connection with our annual goodwill impairment test, we recorded an impairment charge of $430.1 million, reducing the carrying amount of our goodwill at the time to zero.On October 1, 2010, we and Pocket contributed substantially all of our respective wireless spectrum and operating assets in the South Texas region to a new joint venture, STX Wireless, with Cricket receiving a 75.75% controlling membership interest in the venture and Pocket receiving a 24.25% non-controlling membership interest. The excess purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired and the related deferred income tax effects of the transaction resulted in goodwill of $31.1 million. Additionally, on January 3, 2011, we acquired Pocket's customer assistance call center for $850,000. A portion of the purchase price was assigned to property and equipment and the remaining amount was allocated to goodwill. We accounted for both transactions as business purchase combinations in accordance with the authoritative guidance for business combinations.During the third quarter of 2011, we performed our annual assessment of our goodwill and determined that no impairment existed. We also evaluate on a quarterly basis whether any triggering events or changes in circumstances have occurred subsequent to the annual impairment test that would indicate an impairment condition exists. There can be no assurance that impairment conditions will not exist in the future that require further impairment charges to reduce the carrying amount of our goodwill.We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs.When our customers use our service to call customers of local exchange carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some local exchange carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. Some of these carriers have threatened to pursue, have initiated, or may in the future initiate, claims against us to recover these charges, and the outcome of any such claims is uncertain. The FCC has been considering whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime can or should be established for all traffic exchanged between carriers, including commercial mobile radio services carriers. The FCC recently adopted an order which, among other things, institutes a uniform, national bill-and-keep framework for telecommunications traffic exchanged with a local exchange carrier, which will be phased in under a multi-year transition period. The order also clarifies certain aspects relating to compensation between wireless carriers and local exchange carriers in an effort to reduce disputes and address existing ambiguity with respect to these arrangements. There are also various other pending proceedings in the courts, at the FCC and before state regulatory bodies that may affect intercarrier compensation. New or modified intercarrier compensation rules, federal or state proceedings implementing or interpreting those rules and other judicial or regulatory decisions may increase the charges we are required to pay other carriers for terminating calls or transiting calls over telecommunications networks, increase the costs of, or make it more difficult to negotiate, new agreements with carriers, decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls from other carriers on our network, or result in significant costs to us for past and future termination charges. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We resell third party long distance services in connection with our offering of unlimited international long distance service. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory body having jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. If the charges are modified, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international long distance provider. If such charges are substantial, or we cease providing service to the foreign destination, prospective customers may elect not to use our service and current customers may choose to terminate service. Such events could limit our ability to grow our customer base, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Will Decrease.Our operating costs could increase substantially as a result of fraud, including customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the types of fraud we have identified. However, if our strategies are not successful in detecting and controlling fraud, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 34Related to Ownership of Leap Common StockOur Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment.The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of Leap common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of Leap common stock may include, among other things:•variations in our operating results or those of our competitors;•announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors;•entry of new competitors into our markets, changes in product and service offerings by us or our competitors, changes in the prices charged for product and service offerings by us or our competitors, or changes or upgrades in the network technologies used by us or our competitors;•significant developments with respect to intellectual property or other litigation;•announcements of and bidding in auctions for new spectrum;•recruitment or departure of key personnel; •changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock, or changes in our credit ratings or those of our competitors;•changes in the levels of our indebtedness;•any default under any of the indentures governing our secured or unsecured senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise;•rumors or speculation in the marketplace regarding acquisitions or consolidation in our industry, including regarding transactions involving Leap; and•market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole.The occurrence of any one or more of these events could significantly impact the trading price of Leap common stock, and you could lose all or some of your investment.Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs, and Our Ownership Is Highly Concentrated. Sales of a Significant Number of Shares by Large Stockholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock.Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 31% of Leap common stock as of February 1, 2012. Moreover, our five largest stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 66% of Leap common stock as of February 1, 2012. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap's assets and other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination.Our resale shelf registration statements register for resale 15,537,869 shares of Leap common stock held by entities affiliated with one of our directors, or approximately 20% of Leap's outstanding common stock as of February 1, 2012. We have also agreed to register for resale any additional shares of common stock that these entities or their affiliates acquire, and subsequent to such agreement, such entities acquired additional shares which constitute approximately 10% of Leap's outstanding common stock as of February 1, 2012. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares, or any of the other shares held by our other large stockholders and entities affiliated with them, may have on the then-prevailing market price of Leap common stock. If any of Leap's stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales could also impede our ability to raise future capital. 35We Could Elect to Raise Additional Equity Capital Which Could Dilute Existing Stockholders.During the second quarter of 2009 we sold 7,000,000 shares of Leap common stock in an underwritten public offering. We could raise additional capital in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business investment initiatives. Any additional capital we could raise could be significant and could consist of debt, convertible debt or equity financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. This universal shelf registration statement is scheduled to expire in March 2012, and we expect to file a similar registration statement in the near future to register various debt, equity and other securities. To the extent that we were to elect to raise equity capital, this financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. As of February 1, 2012, 79,191,212 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 5,058,248 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 3,019,230 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and deferred stock units under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended, 1,539,914 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, 175,657 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan,107,193 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan, and 216,254 shares available for future issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan.Leap has also reserved up to 4,761,000 shares of its common stock for issuance upon conversion of its $250 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2014. Holders may convert their notes into shares of Leap common stock at any time on or prior to the third scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the notes, July 15, 2014. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock is less than or equal to approximately $93.21 per share, the notes will be convertible into 10.7290 shares of Leap common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes (referred to as the “base conversion rate”), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock exceeds approximately $93.21 per share, the conversion rate will be determined pursuant to a formula based on the base conversion rate and an incremental share factor of 8.3150 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, subject to adjustment. At an applicable stock price of approximately $93.21 per share, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 2,682,250 shares. Upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” of Leap under the indenture, under certain circumstances the maximum number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 4,761,000 shares.In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan and under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market after the recipient satisfies any vesting period applicable to the shares. If any of Leap's stockholders causes a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital.Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, under Delaware Law, in Our Indentures, or in Our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress the Trading Price of Leap Common Stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of Leap common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions:•require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;•authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; 36•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company.In addition, under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder's notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of secured or unsecured senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. See “Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this report.On August 30, 2011, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan as a measure intended to help preserve our ability to use our NOL carryforwards and to deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that would result in a stockholder owning 4.99% or more of Leap common stock (as calculated under Section 382), or any existing holder of 4.99% or more of Leap common stock acquiring additional shares, by substantially diluting the ownership interest of any such stockholder unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our board of directors. Because the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan may restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire Leap common stock, it could discourage a tender offer for Leap common stock or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling position in our stock without our approval, and the liquidity and market value of Leap common stock may be adversely affected while the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is in effect. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.