Risk Factors “We face uncertainty as to the outcome of our litigation with major data networking equipment manufacturers”). The provisional patent application for our Remote Power Patent was filed on March 11, 1999 and the patent was granted by the U.S. Office of Patent and Trademark on April 21, 2001. The patent expires on March 11, 2020. We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in July 1990. Our offices are located at 445 Park Avenue, Suite 1018, New York, New York 10022 and our telephone number is (212) 829-5770. 3 Market Overview – Remote Power Patent Our licensing efforts are currently focused on our Remote Power Patent. Our Remote Power Patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,218,930) relates to several technologies which describe a methodology for controlling the delivery of power to certain devices over an Ethernet network. The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is a non-profit, technical professional association of more than 370,000 individual members in approximately 160 countries. The Standards Association of the IEEE is responsible for the creation of global industry standards for a broad range of technology industries. In 2000, at the urging of several industry vendors, the IEEE formed a task force to facilitate the adoption of a standardized methodology for the delivery of remote power over Ethernet networks which would insure interoperability among vendors of switches and terminal devices. On June 13, 2003 the IEEE Standards Association approved the 802.3af Power over Ethernet standard (the “Standard”), which covers technologies deployed in delivering power over Ethernet networks. The Standard provides for the Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE) to be deployed in switches or as standalone midspan hubs to provide power to remote devices such as wireless access points, IP phones and network-based cameras. The technology is commonly referred to as Power over Ethernet (“PoE”). We believe that our Remote Power Patent covers several of the key technologies covered by the Standard. Ethernet is the leading local area networking technology in use today. PoE technology allows for the delivery of power over Ethernet cables rather than by separate power cords. As a result, a variety of network devices, including IP telephones, wireless LAN Access Points, web-based network security cameras, data collection terminals and other network devices, are able to receive power over existing data cables without the need to modify the existing infrastructure to facilitate the provision of power for such devices through traditional AC outlets. Advantages such as lower installation costs, remote management capabilities, lower maintenance costs, centralized power backup, and flexibility of device location as well as the advent of worldwide power compatibility, create the possibility of PoE becoming widely adopted in networks throughout the world. PoE provides numerous benefits including quantifiable returns on investment. The cost of hiring electricians to pull power cables to remote locations used for access points or security cameras can rival or exceed the cost of the devices. Another key benefit is the need for Voice over IP power reliability in the face of power failures. Using PoE enables data center power supply systems to ensure ongoing power – a function that would be difficult and expensive to implement if each phone required AC outlets. These and other advantages such as remote management capabilities, lower maintenance costs, and flexibility of device location have led to forecasts that PoE will be widely adopted in networks throughout the world. The benefits of PoE are compelling as evidenced by the introduction of products by such leading vendors such as Cisco Systems, Foundry Networks, Extreme Networks, 3Com, Siemens, Nortel Networks and Avaya, as well as many others. The ability to supply power to end-devices over Ethernet networks can be applied to other end-devices, such as advanced security cameras, RFID card readers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants and portable digital music players. As the desire to connect more end-devices to the Ethernet network grows, we believe that PoE technology will become more widely used as a method to power these end-devices. 4 Additional Patents We also own five (5) additional patents, besides our Remote Power Patent, covering various methodologies that provide for allocating bandwidth and establishing Quality of Service for delay sensitive data, such as voice, on packet data networks. Quality of Service issues become important when data networks carry packets that contain audio and video which may require priority over data packets traveling over the same network. Covered within these patents are also technologies that establish bi-directional communications control channels between network-connected devices in order to support advanced applications on traditional data networks. We believe that potential licensees of the technologies contained in these patents would be vendors deploying applications that require the low latency transport of delay sensitive data such as video over data networks. Network-1 Strategy Our strategy is to capitalize on our Patent Portfolio by entering into licensing arrangements with third parties including manufacturers and users that utilize our Patent Portfolio’s proprietary technologies as well as any additional proprietary technologies covered by patents which may be acquired by us in the future. We will also seek to enter into licensing arrangements with users of the proprietary technologies, including corporate, educational and governmental entities in those cases where the patent rights extend to the users of the technologies contained in manufactured products. We do not anticipate manufacturing products utilizing our Patent Portfolio or any of the proprietary technologies contained in our Patent Portfolio. Accordingly, we do not anticipate establishing a manufacturing, sales or marketing infrastructure. Consequently, we believe that our capital requirements will be less than the capital requirements for companies with such infrastructure requirements. In connection with our activities relating to the protection of our Patent Portfolio, it may be necessary to assert patent infringement claims against third parties that we believe are infringing our Patent Portfolio, as is the case with our litigation against eight (8) major data networking equipment manufacturers (“Legal Proceedings – Pending Litigation Against Major Data Networking Equipment Manufacturers”) and as we previously asserted against D-Link (See “Legal Proceedings - D-Link Settlement”). 5 Licensing In February 2004, we commenced licensing efforts with respect to our Remote Power Patent. We believe that potential licensees include, among others, Wireless Local Area Networking (WLAN) equipment manufacturers, Local Area Networking (LAN) equipment manufacturers, Voice Over IP Telephony (VOIP) equipment manufacturers, and Network Camera manufacturers. In addition, we believe that additional potential licensees include users of the equipment embodying the PoE technology covered by our Remote Power Patent, including corporate, educational and federal, state and local government users, as we believe that they are significant beneficiaries of the technologies covered by our Remote Power Patent. ThinkFire Agreement On November 30, 2004, we entered into a Master Services Agreement (the “Agreement”) with ThinkFire Services USA, Ltd. (“ThinkFire”) pursuant to which ThinkFire has been granted the exclusive (except for direct efforts by us and related companies) worldwide rights to negotiate license agreements for our Remote Power Patent with respect to certain potential licensees agreed to between the parties. Either we or ThinkFire may terminate the Agreement upon 60 days notice for any reason or upon 30 days notice in the event of a material breach. We have agreed to pay ThinkFire a fee not to exceed 20% of the royalty payments received from license agreements consummated by ThinkFire on our behalf after we recover our expenses. Licensing Program As of March 31, 2009, we had transmitted letters to approximately 250 companies offering licenses to our Remote Power Patent. In addition, in September 2005 we initiated an industry-wide Power Up Licensing program that offered licenses for our Remote Power Patent to “early adopters” that included royalty rates and related fees at a discount from our standard royalty rates and fees for a limited time period. The Power Up licensing program continued until May 2007. No licenses were granted under the Power Up licensing program. On June 25, 2008 we announced the introduction of a Special Licensing Program for our Remote Power Patent. We entered into 3 license agreements as part of our Special Licensing Program. Our Special Licensing Program was of limited duration (through December 31, 2008) and was implemented on an industry-wide basis to offer discounted running royalty rates and exceptions to our standard licensing terms and conditions for our Remote Power Patent to vendors of finished products that comply with the PoE Standard, including equipment defined in the PoE Standard as Power Sourcing Equipment (PSE) and Powered Devices (PD). The Special Licensing Program was available to all vendors of PoE equipment including those companies that are defendants in our pending patent litigation against eight major data equipment manufacturers. Our agreement with Microsemi Corp. - Analog Mixed Signal Group Ltd. (“Microsemi”), dated June 17, 2008, among other things, enabled Microsemi to assist its customers’ evaluation of our Remote Power Patent and the terms being made available to vendors of PoE equipment pursuant to our Special Licensing Program. 6 Microsemi License On August 13, 2008, as part of our Special Licensing Program and our agreement with Microsemi Corp-Analog Mixed Signal Group Ltd. (“Microsemi-Analog”), previously PowerDsine Ltd, entered into in June 2008, Microsemi Corporation (“Microsemi”), the parent company of Microsemi-Analog, entered into a license agreement with us with respect to our Remote Power Patent. The license agreement provides that Microsemi is obligated to pay us quarterly royalty payments of 2% of the sales price for certain of its Midspan PoE products for the full term of our Remote Power Patent (March 2020). D-Link License In August 2007, we agreed to licensing terms with D-Link Corporation and D-Link Systems (collectively, “D-Link”) as part of a settlement agreement of our patent infringement litigation against D-Link in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division for infringement of our Remote Power Patent (See “Legal Proceedings - D-Link Settlement”). The license terms include the agreement by D-Link to license our Remote Power Patent for its full term which expires in March 2020, and the payment of monthly royalty payments (beginning as of May 26, 2007) based upon a running royalty rate of 3.25% of the net sales of D-Link branded Power over Ethernet products, including those products which comply with the IEEE 802.3af and 802.3at Standards. The royalty rate is subject to adjustment beginning the second quarter of 2008 to a royalty rate consistent with other similarly situated licensees of our Remote Power Patent that may vary according to units and volumes of licensed products sold. In addition, D-Link paid us an upfront payment upon signing of the license agreement of $100,000. The products covered by the license include D-Link Power over Ethernet enabled switches, wireless access points, and network security cameras, among others. Legal Representation In February 2008, we entered into an agreement with Dovel & Luner, LLP pursuant to which such firm provides legal services to us with respect to our litigation commenced in February 2008 against eight major data networking equipment manufacturers, pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, for infringement of our Remote Power Patent (See “Legal Proceedings”). The terms of our agreement with Dovel & Luner, LLP provide for fees of a maximum aggregate cash payment of $1.5 million plus a contingency fee of up to 24% depending upon when an outcome is achieved. With respect to our litigation against D-Link, which was settled in May 2007, we utilized the services of Blank Rome LLP, on a full contingency basis and also the services of Potter Mitton, P.C. (Tyler, Texas) on an hourly basis to serve as local counsel. In accordance with our contingency fee agreement with Blank Rome LLP, we will pay legal fees to Blank Rome LLP equal to 25% of the royalty revenue received by us from our license agreement with D-Link after we recover our expenses related to the litigation. 7 Competition The telecommunications and data networking licensing market is characterized by intense competition and rapidly changing business conditions, customer requirements and technologies. Although we believe that we have enforceable patents relating to telecommunications and data networking, there can be no assurance that our Patent Portfolio will be upheld or that third parties will not invalidate any or all of the patents in our Patent Portfolio. In addition, our current and potential competitors may develop technologies that may be more effective than our proprietary technologies or that would render our technologies less marketable or obsolete. We may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, other companies may develop competing technologies that offer better or less expensive alternatives to PoE and the other technologies covered by our Patent Portfolio. Several companies have notified the IEEE that they may have patents and proprietary technologies that are covered by the Standard. In the event any of those companies asserts claims relating to our patents, the licensing royalties available to us may be limited. Moreover, technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors or adopted by various standards groups could render our Remote Power Patent obsolete, less marketable or unenforceable. Description of Property We currently lease office space in New York City at a cost of $3,400 per month under a lease which expires in June 2010. Employees and Consultants As of March 31, 2009, we had one full-time employee, no part-time employees and three consultants. 8 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a highly competitive environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. The following discussion highlights the most material of the risks. We have a history of losses and modest revenue from current operations. We have incurred substantial operating losses since our inception, which has resulted in an accumulated deficit of $(50,895,000) as of December 31, 2008. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we incurred net losses of $(1,618,000) and $(2,998,000), respectively. We have financed our operations primarily by sales of equity securities. We had revenue of $349,000 and $232,000 from operations for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Our ability to achieve revenue and generate positive cash flow from operations is dependent upon consummating licensing agreements with respect to our patented technologies. In August 2007, as part of our settlement agreement pertaining to our patent infringement litigation against D-Link Corporation and D-Link Systems (collectively, “D-Link”), we entered into our first license agreement for our Remote Power Patent with D-Link. (See “Legal Proceedings - D-Link Litigation”). In August 2008, as part of our Special Licensing Program and an agreement with Microsemi Corp-Analog Mixed Signal Group Ltd. (previously PowerDsine Ltd.), a subsidiary of Microsemi Corporation (“Microsemi”), Microsemi entered into a license agreement with us for our Remote Power Patent with respect to certain of its Midspan PoE products (See “Legal Proceedings – PowerDsine Settlement). As of March 31, 2009, we have entered into 5 license agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent. We may not be successful in achieving additional material licensing agreements with third parties and our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve material revenue or generate positive cash flow from operations from our licensing business. We could be required to stop operations if we are unable to develop our technology licensing business or raise capital when needed. We anticipate, based on our currently proposed plans and assumptions relating to our operations (including the timetable of, costs and expenses associated with our continued operations), that our cash position of $4,140,000 at March 1, 2009 will more likely than not be sufficient to satisfy our operations and capital requirements until at least December 31, 2010. However, we may expend our funds prior thereto. In the event our plans change, or our assumptions change or prove to be inaccurate (due to unanticipated expenses, difficulties, delays or otherwise), we could have insufficient funds to support our operations prior to December 31, 2010. Our inability to obtain additional financing when needed, absent generating sufficient cash from licensing arrangements, would have a material adverse effect on us, requiring us to curtail or possibly cease our operations. In addition, any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to the interests of our then existing stockholders. Our licensing business may not be successful. In November 2003, we entered the technology licensing business following our acquisition of six patents relating to various telecommunications and data networking technologies including, among others, patents covering the delivery of remote power over Ethernet and the transmission of audio, video and data over computer and telephony 9 networks. To date, we have only entered into 5 license agreements with third parties with respect to our patented technology (See “Business - Licensing”). Accordingly, we have a limited history in the technology licensing business upon which an evaluation of our prospects and future performance can be made. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the development, operation and expansion of a new business based on patented technologies in a highly specialized and competitive market. We may not be able to achieve sufficient revenue or profitable operations from our new licensing business. Our future source of licensing revenue is uncertain. In February 2004, we initiated our first licensing efforts relating to the technologies in our remote power patent (U.S. Patent No. 6,218,930) (the “Remote Power Patent”). To date, we have entered into 5 license agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent. (See “Business - Licensing”). Our inability to consummate additional licensing agreements and achieve material revenue from our patented technologies would have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to continue our business. In addition, in the event we consummate license arrangements with third parties, such arrangements may not produce a stable or predictable stream of revenue in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, the success of our licensing efforts depends upon the strength of our intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technologies and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We currently hold 6 patents issued by the U.S. Patent Office that relate to various telecommunications and data networking technologies and include among other things, patents covering the delivery of power to certain devices over PoE networks and the transmission of audio, voice and data over computer and telephony networks. We rely upon our patents and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. The complexity of patent and common law, combined with our limited resources, create risk that our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies may not be successful. We cannot assure you that our patents will be upheld or that third parties will not invalidate our patent rights. If our intellectual property rights are not upheld, such an event would have a material adverse effect on us. 10 Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or any third party claims to invalidate our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. In August 2005, we commenced patent litigation against D-Link Corporation and D-Link Systems, Incorporated for infringement of our Remote Power Patent and in April 2007 we entered into a settlement agreement with the D-Link parties (See “Legal Proceedings - D-Link Litigation”). In addition, in February 2008 we commenced patent litigation against Cisco Systems, Inc. and seven other major data networking equipment manufacturers which is currently pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division (See “Legal Proceedings - Pending Litigation Against Major Data Networking Equipment Manufacturers”). In the future, it may be necessary for us to commence patent litigation against additional third parties whom we believe require a license to our patents. In addition, we may be subject to claims seeking to invalidate our patents, as asserted by the defendants in the aforementioned pending litigation in Texas with us. These types of claims, with or without merit, may subject us to costly litigation and diversion of management’s focus. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing and validating our patents and/or if third parties making claims against us seeking to invalidate our patents are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block our ability to license or otherwise capitalize on our proprietary technologies. Successful litigation against us resulting in a determination that our patents are not valid or enforceable, and/or that third parties do not infringe, would have a material adverse effect on us. Our license agreements with D-Link and Microsemi may not result in significant royalties and do not necessarily mean we will achieve additional license agreements or material revenue. In August 2007 we finalized the settlement agreement with respect to our patent litigation against D-Link Corporation and D-Link Systems, Incorporated pending in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, for infringement of our Remote Power Patent. Under the terms of the settlement, D-Link entered into a license agreement for our Remote Power Patent the terms of which include monthly royalty payments of 3.25% (beginning May 2007) of the net sales of D-Link PoE products, including those products which comply with the IEEE 802.3af and 802.3at Standards, for the full life of our Remote Power Patent, which expires in March 2020. The royalty rate is subject to adjustment to a rate consistent with other similarly situated licensees of the Remote Power Patent based on units of shipments of licensed products. In addition, D-Link paid us $100,000 upon signing of the Settlement Agreement. On August 13, 2008, as part of our Special Licensing Program and our agreement with Microsemi Corp-Analog Mixed Signal Group Ltd. (“Microsemi-Analog”) entered into in June 2008, Microsemi Corporation (“Microsemi”), the parent company of Microsemi-Analog, entered into a license agreement with us with respect to our Remote Power Patent. The license agreement provides that Microsemi is obligated to pay us quarterly royalty payments of 2% of the sales price for certain of Microsemi’s Midspan PoE products for the full term of our Remote Power Patent (March 2020). For the year ended December 31, 2008, we received aggregate royalty payments of $349,000 with respect to our license agreements. Notwithstanding our license agreements with the D-Link and Microsemi, there is no assurance that we will achieve significant royalty revenue from such license agreements, that we will be able to achieve additional material license agreements with third parties relating to our Remote Power Patent or any of our other patents, or that such license arrangements will result in material revenue to us. 11 We face uncertainty as to the outcome of our litigation against major data networking equipment manufacturers. In February 2008, we commenced litigation against eight major data networking equipment manufacturers in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, for infringement of our Remote Power Patent. The defendants in the lawsuit include Cisco Systems, Inc., Cisco Linksys, LLC, Enterasys Networks, Inc., 3COM Corporation, Inc., Extreme Networks, Inc., Foundry Networks, Inc., Netgear, Inc. and Adtran, Inc. We seek injunctive relief and monetary damages for infringement based upon reasonable royalties as well as treble damages for the defendants’ continued willful infringement of our Remote Power Patent. In their answers to the Complaint, the defendants asserted that they do not infringe any valid claim of our Remote Power Patent, and further asserted that, based on several different theories, the patent claims are invalid or unenforceable. In addition to these defenses, the defendants also asserted counterclaims for, among other things, non-infringement, invalidity, and unenforceability of our Remote Power Patent. In the event that the Court determines that our Remote Power Patent is not valid or enforceable, and/or that the defendants do not infringe, any such determination would have a material adverse effect on us. Material licensing revenues from our Remote Power Patent may be dependent upon the applicability of the IEEE Standard. The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is a non-profit, technical professional association of more than 370,000 individual members in approximately 160 countries. The Standards Association of the IEEE is responsible for the creation of global industry standards for a broad range of technology industries. In 2000, the IEEE formed a task force to facilitate the adoption of a standardized methodology for the delivery of remote power over Ethernet networks which would insure interoperability among vendors of switches and terminal devices. In June 2003, the IEEE Standards Association approved the 802.3af Power Over Ethernet standard (the “Standard”), which covers technologies deployed in delivering power over Ethernet cables including whether deployed in switches or as standalone midspan hubs both of which provide power to remote devices including, among others, wireless access points, IP phones and network based cameras. The technology is commonly referred to as PoE. We believe our Remote Power Patent covers several of the key technologies covered by the Standard. However, there is a risk that as a result of litigation a court may determine otherwise and such a determination would have a material adverse effect on our ability to enter into license agreements and achieve material revenue and profits from our Remote Power Patent. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change and our technologies face potential technology obsolescence. The telecommunications and data networking technology market, including transmission of audio, video and data over computer and telephony networks and the delivery of remote PoE markets, are characterized by rapid technological changes, changing customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our technologies obsolete or less marketable. In addition, other companies may develop competing technologies that offer better or less expensive alternatives to PoE and the other technologies covered by our Patent Portfolio. Several companies have notified the IEEE that they may have patents and proprietary technologies that are covered by the Standard. In the event any of those companies asserts claims relating to our patents, the licensing royalties available to us may be limited. Moreover, technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors or adopted by various standards groups could render our Remote Power Patent obsolete, less marketable or unenforceable. 12 Dependence upon CEO and Chairman. Our success is largely dependent upon the personal efforts of Corey M. Horowitz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. Our employment agreement with Mr. Horowitz expired on February 28, 2009. Mr. Horowitz continues to serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. We are currently in discussions with Mr. Horowitz with respect to a new employment agreement, but there is no certainty that we will achieve a mutually acceptable agreement. We believe that the loss of the services of Mr. Horowitz would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the life of Mr. Horowitz. Risks related to low priced stocks. Our common stock currently trades on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol NSSI. Since the trading price of our common stock is below $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a penny stock. SEC regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity security that is not listed on Nasdaq or a national securities exchange and that has a market value of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. SEC regulations require broker-dealers to deliver to a purchaser of our common stock a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with it. Various sales practice requirements are also imposed on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions). Broker-dealers must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and monthly account statements disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the customer’s account. The significant number of options and warrants outstanding may adversely effect the market price for our common stock. As of March 31, 2009, there are outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 12,164,882 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $.12 to $10.00. To the extent that outstanding options and warrants are exercised, existing stockholder percentage ownership will be diluted and any sales in the public market of the common stock underlying such options may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 13 We have a significant amount of authorized but unissued preferred stock, which may affect the likelihood of a change of control in our company. Our Board of Directors has the authority, without further action by the stockholders, to issue 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock on such terms and with such rights, preferences and designations as our Board of Directors may determine. Such terms may include restricting dividends on our common stock, dilution of the voting power of our common stock or impairing the liquidation rights of the holders of our common stock. Issuance of such preferred stock, depending on the rights, preferences and designations thereof, may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control. In addition, certain “anti-takeover” provisions in Delaware law may restrict the ability of our stockholders to authorize a merger, business combination or change of control. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● our ability to successfully enforce and/or defend our Remote PowerPatent; ● our ability to enter into favorable license agreements with third parties withrespect to our Remote Power Patent; ● our ability to achieve material revenue and profits; ● our ability to raise capital when needed; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● technology changes; ● legislative, regulatory and competitive developments; and ● economic and other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Additional stock offerings may dilute current stockholders. We may need to issue additional shares of our capital stock or securities convertible or exercisable for shares of our capital stock, including preferred stock, options or warrants. The issuance of additional capital stock may dilute the ownership of our current stockholders. 14 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 