Item 1A. Risk Factors. Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Our business, and an investment in our securities, involves risks. Our internal ERM program is a process designed to identify and manage inherent risks within our allowable risk profile and to provide reasonable assurance regarding achievement of our objectives. ERM activities are coordinated by the Chief Risk Officer and include participation of the business line managers and oversight by executive management. During the past year, our Board of Directors approved an ERM policy and delegated responsibility for Board of Directors oversight to the Audit and ERM Committee. Also, the Board of Directors approved the first two phases of implementation. In phase one, we identified and documented the major risks to be tracked. These are: (1) capital, (2) compliance, regulatory, legislative, legal and governance, (3) credit, (4) interest rate risk, liquidity and funding, (5) investments, (6) operational, information technology, and environmental, (7) reporting, (8) reputational, (9) strategic and (10) compensation and human resources. Capital risk is the ability to hold adequate levels of capital so that we can absorb unexpected losses and withstand the stresses that arise from the ups and downs of the economy. Compliance, regulatory, legislative, legal and governance risk is the risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with laws as well as prudent ethical standards and contractual obligations. Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from a borrower’s or counterparty’s inability to meet its obligations. Interest rate risk, liquidity, and funding risk focus on the impact to earnings and capital arising from movements in interest rates, the inability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, fund asset growth and meet contractual obligations through unconstrained access to funding at reasonable market rates. Investment risk is the variability of returns produced by an investment. Operational, information technology, and environmental risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and information systems or external events. Reporting risk includes events that may occur and adversely affect our ability to initiate, record, process, and report financial data consistent with the assertions of management in the financial statements. Reputational risk is the risk to earnings and capital arising from a negative public opinion and is assessed by recognizing the potential effect the public’s opinion could have on our franchise value. Strategic risk is the risk that adverse business decisions, ineffective or inappropriate business plans or failure to respond to changes in the 15 Table of Contents competitive environment, business cycles, customer preferences, product obsolescence, execution and/or other intrinsic risks of business will impact our ability to meet our objectives. Compensation and human resource risk is the risk to current and future earnings arising from the inability to attract and retain talented employees, to comply with applicable laws, and to manage through human calamities such as management succession, management capabilities, local labor conditions, and employee tragedies (illness, injury or death). After identifying these risks, we surveyed our business to determine the risk tracking and measuring activities already taking place. The measuring activities were documented by quarter throughout the year and compared to regulatory limits, if applicable, Board of Directors limits and/ or management established targets. Each risk was evaluated in the following four categories: (1) Inherent risk represents the risk to the company in the absence of any actions management might take to alter either the risk’s likelihood or impact, and is assessed as low, moderate, or high; (2) Quality of risk management is how well risks are identified, measured, controlled and monitored, and is assessed as weak, satisfactory, or strong; (3) Residual risk is a summary judgment of the risk that remains after management’s response to the risk, and is assessed as low, moderate, or high; and (4) Direction of risk indicates likely changes to the risk profile over the next twelve months and is assessed as increasing, stable, or decreasing. We provided a full report of the analytics, measuring activities, and assessments to the Audit and ERM Committee and a summary dashboard report was provided to the Board of Directors showing the outcome of the assessments of the risk categories. This reporting process will be continued in future quarters. During the second phase risk owners identified the risks in their respective areas and evaluated the likelihood and impact of occurrence. The top ten risks where likelihood is almost certain and impact is major were identified and documented. These risks will be discussed with executive management and reported to the Audit and ERM Committee and Board of Directors at the next quarterly meetings. This reporting process will be continued in future quarters. The ERM program is a continuous process to evaluate current risks and the appropriate analytics to measure it, and to evaluate action needed. The following summary describes factors we believe are material risks relating to our business and to the ownership of our securities. Our discussion of these risks contains forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. In addition, financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our common stock, may be substantially affected by other risks, including risks we have not identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. This summary does not purport to describe all risks that might possibly affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating To Our Business Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Services Industry and U.S. and Global Credit Markets May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007, throughout 2008 and into 2009 in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn into 2010 and possibly beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of those same institutions. Stock prices of thrift holding companies, such as ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. Further negative developments in the financial services industry could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. If the interest payments we make on our deposits increase relative to our interest income, we may be less profitable. Our profitability depends to a large extent on Superior Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans we make and investment securities we hold, and interest we pay on deposits and our own borrowings. Our net interest income is affected not only by actions we take, but by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature 16 Table of Contents at a time when interest rates are declining, or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets re-price or mature at a time when interest rates are rising. In addition, we may be affected by changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. For example, short-term deposits may be used to support longer-term loans. If the difference between short-and long-term interest rates becomes smaller, the spread between the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings and the rates we receive on loans we make could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. Further, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit our ability to increase interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans, but we may have to pay higher interest rates on deposits and borrowings. This could cause our net interest income to decrease. An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. The rate at which borrowers prepay loans is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including changes in market interest rates, conditions in the housing and financial markets and general economic conditions. We cannot always accurately predict prepayment rates. If the prepayment rates with respect to our loans are greater than we anticipate, there may be a negative impact on our profitability because we may not be able to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to those we received on the prepaid loans, particularly in a time of falling interest rates. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate, our profitability will be reduced. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing such loans will be insufficient to ensure full repayment. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and our failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and review our evaluation on a regular basis, and we provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based on various factors that we believe may affect the credit quality of our loans. However, there can be no assurance that actual loan losses will not exceed the allowance that we have established, as such allowance is adjusted from time to time. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate for the actual losses we experience, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if as a result of our perception of adverse trends, we materially increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, such increase would also reduce our earnings. Events in our geographic markets could adversely affect us. Our business is concentrated in six geographic regions in Alabama and Florida. Any adverse changes in market or economic conditions in Florida and Alabama may increase the risk that our customers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in local market conditions and general economic conditions. Any period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in general or in our markets in Florida and Alabama could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. With most of our loans concentrated in a small number of markets, further declines in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Thus, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. In addition, natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornados, in our markets could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of such natural disasters in our markets could result in a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and in an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or losses on these loans and may impact our customers’ ability to repay loans. We face substantial competition. There are numerous competitors in our geographic markets, including national, regional and local banks and thrifts and other financial services businesses, some of which have substantially greater resources, higher brand visibility and a wider geographic presence than we have. Some of these competitors may offer a greater range of services, more favorable pricing and greater customer convenience than we are able to. In addition, in some of our markets, there are a significant number of new banks and other financial institutions that have opened in the recent past or are expected to open in the near future, and such new 17 Table of Contents competitors may also seek to exploit our markets and customer base. If we are unable to maintain and grow our market share in the face of such competition, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. We are also subject to applicable regulations of the FHLB. Regulation by these entities is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such regulations, and our failure to comply with them may expose us to substantial penalties. In addition, we are subject to numerous consumer protection laws and other laws relating to the operation of financial institutions. Our failure to comply with such laws could expose us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Federal regulation of the banking industry may change significantly due to the unprecedented economic decline and conditions in the banking industry. Banking regulations are being reexamined, and the framework of bank regulatory organizations reconsidered, in the aftermath of the recent economic decline. In addition, for those financial institutions that were eligible for participation in the Treasury Department’s CPP (as Superior Bancorp was) new regulations have been promulgated addressing lending activity and compensation. The effect of these developments, including future regulatory changes, is impossible to predict. Due to the current economic environment, the United States Congress and the federal banking regulators may consider any number of proposals for increased or different regulation of financial institutions. We cannot predict at this time what the effect of such changes in regulation would be. We may require additional capital to fund our growth plans and to augment our capital. Our business strategy includes the expansion of our business through the development of new locations and through the acquisition of other financial institutions and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, complementary businesses as appropriate opportunities arise. In order to finance such growth and to maintain required regulatory capital levels, we may require additional capital in the future. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available upon favorable terms, or at all. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our operations and strategy are directed by our senior management team, most of whom have joined Superior Bancorp since January 2005. Any loss of the services of members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to implement our business strategy. Additional requirements under our regulatory framework, especially those imposed under ARRA, EESA or other legislation intended to strengthen the U.S. financial system, could adversely affect us. Recent government efforts to strengthen the U.S. financial system, including the implementation of the ARRA, the EESA, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) and special assessments imposed by the FDIC, subject participants to additional regulatory fees, corporate governance requirements, restrictions on executive compensation, restrictions on declaring or paying dividends, restrictions on stock repurchases, limits on executive compensation tax deductions and prohibitions against golden parachute payments. These fees, requirements and restrictions, as well as any others that may be imposed subsequently, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The imposition of certain restrictions on our executive compensation as a result of our decision to participate in the CPP may have material adverse effects on our business and results of operations. As a result of our election to participate in CPP, we have adopted the Treasury Department’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury Department holds equity issued under the CPP. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated executive officers, referred to collectively as the senior executive officers, and, in the case of some standards, to other of our employees as well. The standards include: (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of us and Superior Bank, (ii) prohibiting a bonus payment to any of the five most highly compensated employees unless paid in the form of long-term restricted stock, (iii) requiring a “clawback” of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive officer or any of the 20 next most highly compensation employees based on statements of earnings, 18 Table of Contents gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate, (iv) prohibiting golden parachute payments to a senior executive officer or any of the five next most highly compensated employees, (v) prohibiting reimbursement or “gross-up” of taxes paid with respect to compensation for any of our senior executive officers or the 20 next most highly compensated employees, and (vi) agreeing not to deduct for tax purposes compensation paid to an employee in excess of $500,000. These restrictions may place us at a competitive disadvantage in attracting and retaining management. The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had $121.7 million of subordinated debentures issued in connection with trust preferred securities including $69,100,000 issued in connection with the trust preferred securities held by the Treasury Department. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are unconditionally guaranteed by us. The subordinated debentures are senior to our common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends, even if otherwise payable, can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. We have the right to defer distributions on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of our common stock. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. Market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule on February 27, 2009, which raised deposit insurance premiums. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC also implemented a five-basis-point special assessment of each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, but no more than 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base for the second quarter of 2009, to be collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLGP, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. Banks that participate in the TLGP’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee will pay the FDIC an annual assessment of 10 basis points on the amounts in such accounts above the amounts covered by FDIC deposit insurance. To the extent that these TLGP assessments are insufficient to cover any loss or expenses arising from the TLGP, the FDIC is authorized to impose an emergency special assessment on all FDIC-insured depository institutions. The FDIC has authority to impose charges for the TLGP upon depository institution holding companies, as well. These changes, along with the full utilization of our FDIC insurance assessment credit in early 2009, will cause the premiums and TLGP assessments charged by the FDIC to increase. These actions could significantly increase our noninterest expense currently and for the foreseeable future. The FDIC required all insured institutions to prepay insurance premiums through 2012 in order to recapitalize the Deposit Insurance Fund. In the case of Superior, this prepayment aggregated $15.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Future increases in Deposit Insurance Fund insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of Superior Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. If we defer payments of interest on our outstanding junior subordinated debentures or if certain defaults relating to those debentures occur, we will be prohibited from declaring or paying dividends or distributions on, and from making liquidation payments with respect to, our common stock. At December 2009, we had outstanding $121.7 million aggregate principal amount of junior subordinated debentures issued in connection with the sale of trust preferred securities through statutory business trusts. We have unconditionally guaranteed these trust preferred securities. There are currently five separate series of these junior subordinated debentures outstanding, each series having been issued under a separate indenture and with a separate guarantee. Each of these indentures, together with the related guarantee, prohibits us, subject to limited exceptions, from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, acquiring or making any liquidation payments with respect to, any of our capital stock at any time when (i) there shall have occurred and be continuing an event of default under such indenture or any event, act or condition that with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute an event of default under such indenture; (ii) we are in default with respect to payment of any obligations under such guarantee; or (iii) we have deferred payment of interest on the junior subordinated debentures outstanding under that indenture. In 19 Table of Contents that regard, we are entitled, at our option but subject to certain conditions, to defer payments of interest on the junior subordinated debentures of each series from time to time for up to five years. Events of default under the indentures generally consist of our failure to pay interest on the junior subordinated debt securities under certain circumstances, our failure to pay any principal of or premium on such junior subordinated debt securities when due, our failure to comply with certain covenants under the indenture, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or liquidation relating to us or Superior Bank. As a result of these provisions, if we were to elect to defer payments of interest on any series of junior subordinated debentures, or if any of the other events described in clause (i) or (ii) of the first paragraph of this risk factor were to occur, we would be prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends on our common stock, from repurchasing or otherwise acquiring any such common stock, and from making any payments to holders of common stock in the event of our liquidation, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock. Risks Related To an Investment in Our Common Stock Superior Bancorp’s stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume and general market conditions. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is relatively small, typically less than 75,000 shares per day and sometimes less. Trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. In addition, market fluctuations, industry factors, general economic conditions and political events, including economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or market trends, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results of operations. Stock prices of thrift holding companies, such as ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets. Our ability to pay dividends is limited. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory requirements and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital to meet the capital needs of our business, including capital needs related to future growth. Our primary source of income is the payment of dividends from Superior Bank to us. Superior Bank, in turn, is likewise subject to regulatory requirements potentially limiting its ability to pay such dividends to us and by the need to maintain sufficient capital for its operations and obligations. Further, we are obligated, subject to regulatory limitations, to make periodic distributions on our trust preferred securities, subordinated debentures and preferred stock, which reduces the income that might otherwise be available to pay dividends on our common stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our common stockholders, no assurance as to the amount or timing of any such dividends, and no assurance that such dividends, if and when paid, will be maintained, at the same level or at all, in future periods. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions or to raise capital to augment our existing capital base may be dilutive to existing stockholders. When we determine that appropriate strategic opportunities exist, we may acquire other financial institutions and related businesses, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. We may use our common stock for such acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to raise capital through selling additional common stock. It is possible that the issuance of additional common stock in such acquisition or capital transactions may be dilutive to the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 