Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If our efforts to attract subscribers are not successful, our revenues will be adversely affected. We must continue to attract subscribers to our service. Our ability to attract subscribers will depend in part on our ability to consistently provide our subscribers with a valuable and quality experience for selecting, viewing, receiving and returning titles, including providing accurate recommendations through our recommendation service. Furthermore, the relative service levels, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract subscribers. Competitors include video retailers, video rental outlets, kiosk services, Internet content providers, including online DVD rental services, cable channels, such as HBO, Showtime and Starz, pay per-view and VOD. If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract subscribers. In addition, many of our subscribers are rejoining our service, originate from word-of-mouth advertising and are directly referred to our service from existing subscribers. If our efforts to satisfy our existing subscribers are not successful, we may not be able to attract subscribers, and as a result, our revenues will be adversely affected. If the market segment for online DVD rentals saturates, our business will be adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth of our online DVD rental subscription business since our inception. We have attracted a large number of subscribers who have traditionally used video retailers, video rental outlets, cable channels, pay-per-view and VOD for their in-home filmed entertainment. While the market segment for online DVD rental has grown significantly, we saw our growth slow in 2007. Our slowing growth appears primarily to be the result of the rapid growth of our direct competitor, Blockbuster Online. Even with the apparent reduced competitive threat from Blockbuster Online, our rate of growth may continue to slow. Such slowing growth could indicate that the market segment for online rentals is beginning to saturate. While we believe that online DVD rentals will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. If we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. We must minimize the rate of loss of existing subscribers while adding new subscribers. Subscribers cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, delivery takes too long, the service is a poor value, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. We must continually add new subscribers both to replace subscribers who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current subscriber base. If too many of our subscribers cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new subscribers in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in both retaining our existing subscribers and attracting new subscribers, our churn will likely increase and our business will be adversely affected. Further, if excessive numbers of subscribers cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these subscribers with new subscribers. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business will be adversely affected. The market for in-home filmed entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. New technologies for delivery of in-home filmed entertainment, such as VOD and Internet delivery of content, continue to receive considerable media and investor attention. Many of our competitors have longer operating 9 Table of Contents histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share, revenues or profitability. In addition, many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in-home filmed entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. For example, consumers may subscribe to HBO, rent a DVD from Blockbuster, buy a DVD from Wal-Mart or Amazon, download a movie from Apple and subscribe to Netflix, or some combination thereof, all in the same month. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at a relatively low cost. DVDs and Internet delivery of content represent only two of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing filmed entertainment. In addition, the growth in adoption of DVD and downloading technology is not mutually exclusive from the growth of other technologies. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors, programs and technologies, we may not be able to achieve adequate market share, increase our revenues or maintain profitability. Our principal competitors include: • video rental outlets and kiosk services, such as Blockbuster, Movie Gallery and Redbox; • online DVD subscription rental sites, such as Blockbuster Online; • pay-per-view and VOD services; • movie retail stores, such as Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Amazon.com; • subscription entertainment services, such as HBO, Showtime and Starz; • Internet movie and television content providers, such as iTunes, Amazon.com, Vongo, Hulu, Movielink, and CinemaNow.com; • Internet companies, such as Yahoo! and Google; • cable providers, such as Time Warner and Comcast; and • direct broadcast satellite providers, such as DIRECTV and Echostar. Some of our competitors have adopted, and may continue to adopt, aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to marketing, Web site and systems development than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against current or new competitors at our existing pricing levels or at even lower price points in the future. Furthermore, we may need to adjust the level of service provided to our subscribers and/or incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate. As a result of increased competition, we may see a reduction in operating margins and market share. If VOD or other technologies are more widely adopted and supported as a method of content delivery by the studios and consumers, our business could be adversely affected. Some digital cable providers and Internet content providers have implemented technology referred to as VOD. This technology transmits movies and other entertainment content on demand with interactive capabilities such as start, stop and rewind. High-speed Internet access has greatly increased the speed and quality of viewing VOD content, including feature-length movies, on personal computers and televisions. In addition, other technologies have been developed that allow alternative means for consumers to receive and watch movies or other entertainment, such as on cell phones or other devices such as Apple’s video iPod and Apple TV. Although we anticipate providing solutions for the Internet-based delivery of content, as evidenced by our instant-watching feature, VOD or other technologies may become more affordable and viable alternative methods of content delivery that are widely supported by studios and adopted by consumers. If this happens more quickly than we anticipate or more quickly than our own Internet delivery offerings, or if other providers are better able to meet studio and consumer needs and expectations, our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents If the popularity of the DVD format decreases, our business could be adversely affected. Consumers have rapidly adopted the DVD format for viewing in-home filmed entertainment. While the growth of DVD sales has slowed, we believe that the DVD format, including any successor formats such as Blu-ray, will be valuable long-term consumer propositions and studio profit centers. However, if DVD sales were to decrease, because of a shift away from movie watching or because new or existing technologies were to become more popular at the expense of DVD enjoyment, studios and retailers may reduce their support of the DVD format. Our subscriber growth will be substantially influenced by future popularity of the DVD format, and if such popularity wanes, our subscriber growth may also slow. If U.S. Copyright law were altered to amend or eliminate the First Sale Doctrine or if studios were to release or distribute titles on DVD in a manner that attempts to circumvent or limit the affects of the First Sale Doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. Under U.S. Copyright Law, once a copyright owner sells a copy of his work, the copyright owner relinquishes all further rights to sell or otherwise dispose of that copy. While the copyright owner retains the underlying copyright to the expression fixed in the work, the copyright owner gives up his ability to control the fate of the work once it had been sold. As such, once a DVD is sold into the market, those obtaining the DVD are permitted to re-sell it, rent it or otherwise dispose of it. If Congress or the courts were to change or substantially limit this First Sale Doctrine, our ability to obtain content and then rent it could be adversely affected. Likewise, if studios agree to limit the sale or distribution of their content in ways that try to limit the affects of the First Sale Doctrine, our business could be adversely affected. For example, in late 2006 and again in late 2007, Blockbuster announced arrangements with certain content owners pursuant to which Blockbuster would receive content on DVDs for rental exclusively by Blockbuster. To the extent this content is to be distributed exclusively to Blockbuster and not to retail vendors or distributors, we could be prevented from obtaining such content. To the extent the content is also sold to retail vendors or distributors, we would not be prohibited from obtaining and renting such content pursuant to the First Sale Doctrine. Nonetheless, it does impact our ability to obtain such content in the most efficient manner and, in some cases, in sufficient quantity to satisfy demand. If such arrangements were to become more commonplace or if additional impediments to obtaining content were created (such as an exclusive rental window), our ability to obtain content could be impacted and our business could be adversely affected. We depend on studios to release titles on DVD for an exclusive time period following theatrical release. Our ability to attract and retain subscribers is related to our ability to offer new releases of filmed entertainment on DVDs prior to their release to other distribution channels. Except for theatrical release, DVDs currently enjoy a significant competitive advantage over other distribution channels, such as pay-per-view and VOD, because of the early distribution window for DVDs. The window for DVD rental and retail sales is generally exclusive against other forms of non-theatrical movie distribution, such as pay-per-view, premium television, basic cable and network and syndicated television. The length of the exclusive window for movie rental and retail sales varies. Our business could suffer increased competition if: • the window for rental were no longer the first following the theatrical release; • the length of this window was shortened; or • the window was not exclusive as to other channels. The order, length and exclusivity of each window for each distribution channel is determined solely by the studio releasing the title, and we cannot assure you that the studios will not change their policies in the future in a manner that would be adverse to our business and results of operations. Currently, studios distribute their filmed entertainment content approximately three to six months after theatrical release to the home video market, four to seven months after theatrical release to pay-per-view and VOD, one year after theatrical release to premium television and two to three years after theatrical release to basic cable and network television. Over the past 11 Table of Contents several years, the major studios have shortened the release window on certain titles, in particular the theatrical to home video window. In addition, some studios have discussed eliminating the exclusive DVD release window on certain titles, in particular releasing movies simultaneously on DVD and VOD. We depend on studios to license us content for Internet delivery in order to operate our instant-watching feature. Internet delivery of content involves the licensing of rights which are separate from and independent of the rights we obtain when acquiring DVD content. Our ability to provide our instant-watching feature therefore depends on studios licensing us content specifically for Internet delivery. The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary by studio. If the studios change their terms and conditions or are no longer willing or able to provide us licenses, our ability to provide Internet delivered content to our subscribers will be adversely affected. Unlike DVD, Internet delivered content is not subject to the First Sale Doctrine. As such we are completely dependent on the studios providing us licenses in order to access and distribute Internet delivered content. In addition, the studios have great flexibility in licensing content. They may elect to license content exclusively to a particular provider or otherwise limit the types of services that can deliver Internet delivered content. For example, HBO licenses content from studios like Warner Bros., and the license provides HBO with the exclusive right to such content against other subscription services, including Netflix. As such, Netflix cannot license certain Warner Bros. content for delivery to its subscribers while Warner Bros. may nonetheless license the same content to transactional VOD providers. This ability to carve-up distribution rights is unique to digital content. If we are unable to secure rights to content and to obtain such content upon terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to operate our instant-watching feature will be adversely impacted, and our subscriber satisfaction with this feature will also be adversely impacted. We intend to rely on a number of partners to deliver our Internet delivered content to various devices. We currently offer Internet delivered content only to PCs. We intend to broaden the distribution capability of our instant-watching feature to other platforms and partners over time. In January 2008, we announced our development arrangement with LG Electronics. While the terms of this arrangement have not been finalized, we anticipate developing, in conjunction with LG, a set-top box device that will enable our instant-watching feature to be viewed directly through subscribers’ televisions. We intend to enter other deals with additional partners for distribution of our content to various devices. If we are not successful in creating these relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments, our ability to grow our instant-watching feature could be adversely impacted. If we experience increased demand for titles which we are unable to offset with increased subscriber retention or operating margins, our operating results may be adversely affected. With our unlimited plans, there is no established limit to the number of movies that subscribers may rent on DVD or, as we recently announced, watch through our instant-watching feature. We are continually adjusting our service in ways that may impact subscriber movie usage. Such adjustments include new Web site features and merchandising practices, computer-based instant watching of select titles through our instant-watching feature, an expanded DVD distribution network and software and process changes. In addition, demand for titles may increase for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including promotion by studios and seasonal variations or shifts in consumer movie watching. If our subscriber retention does not increase or our operating margins do not improve to an extent necessary to offset the effect of any increased operating costs associated with increased usage, our operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, our subscriber growth and retention may be adversely affected if we attempt to alter our service or increase our monthly subscription fees to offset any increased costs of acquiring or delivering titles. 12 Table of Contents If our subscribers select titles or formats that are more expensive for us to acquire and deliver more frequently, our expenses may increase. Certain titles cost us more to acquire or result in greater revenue sharing expenses, depending on the source from whom they are acquired and the terms on which they are acquired. If subscribers select these titles more often on a proportional basis compared to all titles selected, our revenue sharing and other content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. In addition, films released on the new high definition DVD formats, Blu-ray and HD DVD, and those released for Internet delivery may be more expensive to acquire than in DVD format. The rate of customer acceptance and adoption of these new formats is uncertain. If subscribers select these formats on a proportional basis more often than the existing DVD format, our content acquisition expenses could increase, and our gross margins could be adversely affected. If our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve subscriber satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers, and our operating results may be adversely affected. The Netflix brand is still developing, and we must continue to build strong brand identity. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of owners of DVD players who have traditionally relied on store-based rental outlets and persuade them to subscribe to our service through our Web site. In addition, we will have to compete for subscribers against other brands which have greater recognition than ours, such as Blockbuster. We believe that the importance of brand loyalty will only increase in light of competition, both for online subscription services and other means of distributing titles, such as VOD. From time to time, our subscribers express dissatisfaction with our service, including among other things, our inventory allocation and delivery processing. To the extent dissatisfaction with our service is widespread or not adequately addressed, our brand may be adversely impacted. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our operating results and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage the mix of subscriber acquisition sources, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. We utilize a broad mix of marketing programs to promote our service to potential new subscribers. We obtain new subscribers through our online marketing efforts, including third party banner ads, pop-under placements, direct links and permission-based e-mails, as well as our active affiliate program. In addition, we have engaged in various offline marketing programs, including television and radio advertising, direct mail and print campaigns, consumer package and mailing insertions. We also acquire a number of subscribers who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. We maintain an active public relations program to increase awareness of our service and drive subscriber acquisition. We opportunistically adjust our mix of marketing programs to acquire new subscribers at a reasonable cost with the intention of achieving overall financial goals. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscribers with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our subscriber levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue using our current marketing channels, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to support the marketing of our service by current means if such activities are no longer available to us, become cost prohibitive or are adverse to our business. If companies that currently promote our service decide to enter our business or a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such channels. In addition, if ad rates increase, we may curtail marketing expenses or otherwise experience an increase in our cost per subscriber. Laws and regulations impose restrictions on the use of certain channels, including commercial e-mail and direct mail. We may limit or discontinue use or support of e-mail and other activities if we become concerned that subscribers or potential subscribers deem such activities intrusive, which could affect our goodwill or brand. If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents If we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. We have expanded rapidly since we launched our Web site in April 1998. Many of our systems and operational practices were implemented when we were at a smaller scale of operations. If we are not able to refine or revise these legacy systems as we grow, if they fail or, if in responding to any other issues related to growth, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to process deliveries and returns of our DVDs and to manage other aspects of our operations, including our instant-watching feature, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. We use complex proprietary software to process deliveries and returns of our DVDs and to manage other aspects of our operations, including our instant-watching feature. Our proprietary technology is intended to allow our nationwide network of shipping centers to be operated on an integrated basis. We continually enhance or modify the software used for our distribution operations. We cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our distribution operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our subscribers. Future enhancements and modifications to our proprietary technology could consume considerable resources. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the processing of DVDs among our shipping centers in a timely and efficient manner, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. In addition, through our instant-watching feature, our subscribers will access titles on our Web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our Web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. If this proprietary software fails to satisfactorily display the available titles, our ability to retain existing subscribers and to add new subscribers may be impaired. Also, any harm to our subscribers’ personal computers caused by the proprietary software could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience delivery problems or if our subscribers or potential subscribers lose confidence in the U.S. mail system, we could lose subscribers, which could adversely affect our operating results. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our subscribers. We are subject to risks associated with using the public mail system to meet our shipping needs, including delays or disruptions caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, labor activism, health epidemics or bioterrorism. Our DVDs are also subject to risks of breakage during delivery and handling by the U.S. Postal Service. The risk of breakage is also impacted by the materials and methods used to replicate our DVDs. If the entities replicating our DVDs use materials and methods more likely to break during delivery and handling or we fail to timely deliver DVDs to our subscribers, our subscribers could become dissatisfied and cancel our service, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, increased breakage rates for our DVDs will increase our cost of acquiring titles. Increases in the cost of delivering DVDs could adversely affect our gross profit. Increases in postage delivery rates could adversely affect our gross profit if we elect not to raise our subscription fees to offset the increase. The U.S. Postal Service increased the rate for first class postage on January 8, 2006 by 2 cents, from 37 cents to 39 cents, and then again in May 2007 by another 2 cents. The U.S. Postal Service has announced an increase in the rate for first class postage effective in May 2008 by one cent to 42 cents and it is also expected that the U.S. Postal Service will raise rates again in subsequent years in accordance with the powers recently given the U.S. Postal Service in connection with the postal reform legislation. The U.S. Postal Service continues to focus on plans to reduce its costs and make its service more efficient. If the U.S. Postal Service were to change any policies relative to the requirements of first-class mail, including changes in size, weight or machinability qualifications of our DVD envelopes, such changes could result in increased shipping costs or higher breakage for our DVDs, and our gross margin could be adversely affected. For example, the Office of Inspector General at the U.S. Postal Service recently issued a report 14 Table of Contents recommending that the U.S. Postal Service revise the machinability qualifications for first class mail related to DVDs or to charge DVD mailers who don’t comply with the new regulations a 17 cent surcharge on all mail deemed unmachinable. We do not currently anticipate any material impact to our operational practices or postage delivery rates arising from this report. Also, if the U.S. Postal Service curtails its services, such as by closing facilities or discontinuing or reducing Saturday delivery service, our ability to timely deliver DVDs could diminish, and our subscriber satisfaction could be adversely affected. Currently, most filmed entertainment is packaged on a single lightweight DVD. Our delivery process is designed to accommodate the delivery of one DVD to fulfill a selection. Because of the lightweight nature of a DVD, we generally mail one DVD per envelope using standard first class U.S. postage rates. Studios occasionally provide additional content on a second DVD or may package a title on two DVDs. In addition, the studios have begun to release certain films in high definition format on Blu-ray and HD DVDs. These new high definition format DVDs appear to have higher damage rates than regular DVDs. If packaging of filmed entertainment on multiple DVDs were to become more prevalent, if the weight of DVDs were to increase, or the durability of DVDs deteriorate, our costs of delivery and fulfillment processing would increase and our costs of replacing damaged DVDs may rise materially which would depress gross margins and profitability and adversely affect free cash flow. If we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation service, our business may suffer. Based on proprietary algorithms, our recommendation service enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our subscribers. We believe that in order for our recommendation service to function most effectively, it must access a large database of user ratings. We cannot assure that the proprietary algorithms in our recommendation service will continue to function effectively to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy, or that we will continue to be successful in enticing subscribers to rate enough titles for our database to effectively predict and recommend new or existing titles. We are continually refining our recommendation service in an effort to improve its predictive accuracy and usefulness to our subscribers. We may experience difficulties in implementing refinements. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation service. If our recommendation service does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our subscribers will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements, our personal movie recommendation service will be less useful, in which event: • our subscriber satisfaction may decrease, subscribers may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected; • our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected; and • our subscribers may default to choosing titles from among new releases or other titles that cost us more to provide, and our margins may be adversely affected. If we do not acquire sufficient DVD titles, our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we do not acquire sufficient copies of DVDs, either by not correctly anticipating demand or by intentionally acquiring fewer copies than needed to fully satisfy demand, we may not appropriately satisfy subscriber demand, and our subscriber satisfaction and results of operations could be adversely affected. Conversely, if we attempt to mitigate this risk and acquire more copies than needed to satisfy our subscriber demand, our inventory utilization would become less effective and our gross margins would be adversely affected. Our ability to accurately predict subscriber demand as well as market factors such as exclusive distribution arrangements may impact our ability to acquire appropriate quantities of certain DVDs. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to renew or renegotiate our revenue sharing agreements when they expire on terms favorable to us, or if the cost of purchasing titles on a wholesale basis increases, our gross margins may be adversely affected. We acquire DVDs through a mix of revenue sharing agreements as well as direct purchase arrangements. Whether we enter into a direct purchase or revenue sharing arrangement depends on the economic terms we can negotiate as well as studio preferences. Starting in 2000, we entered into numerous revenue sharing arrangements with studios and distributors which typically enabled us to increase our copy depth of DVDs on an economical basis because of a low initial payment with additional payments made only if our subscribers rent the DVD. During the course of our revenue sharing relationships, various contract administration issues can arise. To the extent that we are unable to resolve any of these issues in an amicable manner, our relationship with the studios and distributors may be adversely impacted. As the revenue sharing agreements expire, we must renegotiate new terms or shift to direct purchasing arrangements, under which we must pay the full wholesale price regardless of whether the DVD is rented. We have seen the purchase mix shift toward direct purchasing arrangements as revenue sharing agreements expire. If we cannot renegotiate purchasing arrangements on favorable terms, the cost of acquiring content could increase and our gross margins may be adversely affected. In addition, the risk associated with accurately predicting title demand could increase if we are required to directly purchase more titles. If the sales price of DVDs to retail consumers decreases, our ability to attract new subscribers may be adversely affected. The cost of manufacturing DVDs is substantially less than the price for which new DVDs are generally sold in the retail market. Thus, we believe that studios and other resellers of DVDs have significant flexibility in pricing DVDs for retail sale. If the retail price of DVDs decreases significantly, consumers may choose to purchase DVDs instead of subscribing to our service. We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. The decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Any significant disruption in service on our Web site or in our computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers. Subscribers and potential subscribers access our service through our Web site, where the title selection process is integrated with our delivery processing systems and software. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our subscribers is dependent upon the reliable performance of our Web site, network infrastructure and fulfillment processes. Interruptions in these systems could make our Web site unavailable and hinder our ability to fulfill selections. Much of our software is proprietary, and we rely on the expertise of our engineering and software development teams for the continued performance of our software and computer systems. In addition, through our instant-watching feature, our subscribers access titles on our Web site through our proprietary movie player software and must maintain their connection to our Web site for an uninterrupted viewing experience. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of our Web site could diminish the overall attractiveness of our subscription service to existing and potential subscribers. Our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Our Web site periodically experiences directed attacks intended to cause a disruption in service. Any attempts by 16 Table of Contents hackers to disrupt our Web site service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to direct attacks on our Web site or internal systems. Efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. Any significant disruption to our Web site or internal computer systems could result in a loss of subscribers and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our communications hardware and the computer hardware used to operate our Web site and our Internet-based delivery of content are hosted at the facilities of a third party provider. Hardware for our delivery systems is maintained in our shipping centers. Fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems and hardware or cause them to fail completely. As we do not maintain entirely redundant systems, a disrupting event could result in prolonged downtime of our operations and could adversely affect our business. Problems faced by our third party Web hosting provider, with the telecommunications network providers with whom it contracts or with the systems by which it allocates capacity among its customers, including us, could adversely impact the experience of our subscribers. Our executive offices and our Sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the San Francisco Bay Area. In the event of an earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster, our operations would be adversely affected. Our executive offices and our Sunnyvale-based shipping center are located in the San Francisco Bay Area. Our business and operations could be adversely affected in the event of electrical blackouts, fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, break-ins or similar events. We may not be able to effectively shift our fulfillment and delivery operations due to disruptions in service in the San Francisco Bay Area or any other facility. Because the San Francisco Bay Area is located in an earthquake-sensitive area, we are particularly susceptible to the risk of damage to, or total destruction of, our Sunnyvale-based operations center and the surrounding transportation infrastructure. We are not insured against any losses or expenses that arise from a disruption to our business due to earthquakes. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Marketing Officer, or our failure to attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future could harm our business and new service developments. We depend on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including Reed Hastings, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, Barry McCarthy, our Chief Financial Officer and Leslie J. Kilgore, our Chief Marketing Officer. In addition, much of our key technology and systems are custom-made for our business by our personnel. The loss of key personnel could disrupt our operations and have an adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our subscriber data. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with providing our personal movie recommendation service, we collect and utilize data supplied by our subscribers. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users’ browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation as well as increased enforcement of existing laws, could have an adverse effect on our business. 17 Table of Contents Our reputation and relationships with subscribers would be harmed if our billing data were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. To secure transmission of confidential information obtained by us for billing purposes, including subscribers’ credit card data, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology. In conjunction with the payment processing companies, we take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers’ data. If, despite these measures, we experience any unauthorized intrusion into our subscribers’ data, current and potential subscribers may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become subscribers, and our business could be adversely affected. Similarly, if a well-publicized breach of the consumer data security of any other major consumer Web site were to occur, there could be a general public loss of confidence in the use of the Internet for commerce transactions which could adversely affect our business. In addition, because we obtain subscribers’ billing information on our Web site, we do not obtain signatures from subscribers in connection with the use of credit cards by them. Under current credit card practices, to the extent we do not obtain cardholders’ signatures, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. From time to time, fraudulent credit cards are used on our Web site to obtain service and access our DVD inventory. Typically, these credit cards have not been registered as stolen and are therefore not rejected by our automatic authorization safeguards. While we do have a number of other safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some loss from these fraudulent transactions. We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent credit card transactions. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would harm our business and results of operations. Increases in payment processing fees or changes to operating rules would increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our subscribers pay for our subscription services predominately using credit cards and debit cards. Our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. From time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result in a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. These fees may increase in 2008. Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods, which are predominately credit cards and debit cards. These rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. Netflix is a registered trademark of Netflix, Inc. in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan and Australia. We have also registered the Netflix design logo and the service mark, “Friends,” in the United States and have filed U.S. patent applications for certain aspects of our technology. We have also filed a trademark application in the European Union for the Netflix name. From time to time we expect to file additional trademark and patent applications. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent 18 Table of Contents use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, our recommendation service, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site. We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing intellectual property or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not exhaustively searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site or our recommendation service or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States may change in the near future. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Forecasting film revenue and associated gross profits from our films prior to release is extremely difficult and may result in significant write-offs. We are required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from the associated films. The amount of film production costs that will be amortized each period depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a film-by-film basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized film production costs, the unamortized film production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given period, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual film, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs. Such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we base our estimates of revenue on performance of comparable titles and our knowledge of the industry. If the information is incorrect, the amount of revenue and related expenses that we recognize from our films could be wrong, which could result in fluctuations in our earnings. 19 Table of Contents If we become subject to liability for content that we publish or distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. As a publisher of content, a host of third party content and a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we publish or distribute. For example, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Red Envelope Entertainment, LLC, or REE, LLC, which is dedicated to acquiring and funding original content productions, may be exposed to liability for copyright infringement and other claims relating to the original content. We also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or movie reviews. If we become liable, then our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability could harm our results of operations. We cannot assure that we are adequately insured to cover claims of these types or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed on us. If government regulation of the Internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The manner in which Internet and other legislation may be interpreted and enforced cannot be precisely determined and may subject either us or our customers to potential liability, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the popularity or growth in use of the Internet, including laws limiting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our subscription service and increase our cost of doing business. In addition, if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, consumers may become unwilling to select their entertainment online or otherwise provide us with information necessary for them to become subscribers. Further, we may not be able to effectively market our services online to users of the Internet. If we are unable to interact with consumers because of changes in their attitude toward use of the Internet, our subscriber acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. Most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Changes in securities laws and regulations have increased and may continue to increase our costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and recently enacted rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, have increased and may continue to increase our expenses as we devote resources to their requirements. 20 Table of Contents Deterioration in the economy could impact our business. Netflix is an entertainment service, and payment for our service may be considered discretionary on the part of many of our current and potential subscribers. To the extent the overall economy deteriorates, such as in the case of a recession, our business could be impacted as subscribers choose either to leave our service or reduce their service levels. Also, our efforts to attract new subscribers may be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership Our officers and directors and their affiliates will exercise significant control over Netflix. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors, their immediate family members and affiliated venture capital funds beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock and stock options that are exercisable within 60 days. In particular, Jay Hoag, one of our directors, beneficially owned approximately 23% and Reed Hastings, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 7%. These stockholders may have individual interests that are different from other stockholders and will be able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which could delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: • authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • provide for a classified board of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; • establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Our stock price is volatile. The price at which our common stock has traded since our May 2002 initial public offering has fluctuated significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: • variations in our operating results; • variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; • announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; 21 Table of Contents • competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; • market volatility in general; • the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and • the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. We record substantial expenses related to our issuance of stock options that may have a material negative impact on our operating results for the foreseeable future. During the second quarter of 2003, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS No. 123”) for stock-based employee compensation. In addition, during the third quarter of 2003, we began granting stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. The vesting periods provide for options to vest immediately, in comparison with the three to four-year vesting periods for stock options granted prior to the third quarter of 2003. As a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expenses determined under SFAS No. 123 are fully recognized in the same periods as the monthly stock option grants. Our stock-based compensation expenses totaled $12.0 million, $12.7 million and $14.3 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We expect our stock-based compensation expenses will continue to be significant in future periods, which will have an adverse impact on our operating results. The lattice-binomial model used by us requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the option’s price volatility of the underlying stock. If facts and circumstances change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock-based compensation expense in future periods, or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future period expenses may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect the fair value estimate of stock-based payments, our operating income, net income and net income per share. Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. Given the dynamic nature of our business and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, gross margin, operating expenses, number of paying subscribers, number of DVDs shipped per day and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 