Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future. We experienced net losses of $238.0 million, $143.4 million and $76.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis or at all. Our strategic objectives depend on our ability to successfully and cost-effectively operate our existing and newly launched markets, on our ability to respond appropriately to changes in the competitive and economic environment, and on customer acceptance of our Cricket product offerings. We have experienced increased expenses in connection with our launch of significant new business expansion efforts, including activities to broaden our product portfolio and to enhance our network coverage and capacity. If we fail to attract additional customers for our Cricket products and services and fail to achieve consistent profitability in the future, that failure could have a negative effect on our financial condition. We May Not Be Successful in Increasing Our Customer Base Which Would Negatively Affect Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook. Our growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis has varied substantially in the past. We believe that this uneven growth generally reflects seasonal trends in customer activity, promotional activity, competition in the wireless telecommunications market, our pace of new market launches and varying national economic conditions. Our current business plans assume that we will continue to increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. Our ability to continue to grow our customer base and achieve the customer penetration levels we currently believe are possible in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including, among other things, increased competition from existing or new competitors, higher than anticipated churn, our inability to increase our network capacity to meet increasing customer demand, unfavorable economic conditions (which may have a disproportionate negative impact on portions of our customer base), changes in the demographics of our markets, adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment and other factors that may limit our ability to grow our customer base. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, our current business plans and financial outlook may be harmed. We Face Increasing Competition Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for Cricket Service. The telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, voice-over-internet-protocol service providers, traditional landline service providers and cable companies. Some of these competitors are able to offer bundled service offerings which package wireless service offerings with additional service offerings, such as landline phone service, cable or satellite television, media and internet, that we may not be able to duplicate at competitive prices. Some of these competitors have greater name and brand recognition, larger spectrum holdings, larger footprints, access to greater amounts of capital, greater technical, sales, marketing and distribution resources and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. These advantages may allow our competitors to provide service offerings with more extensive features or options than those we currently provide, offer the latest and most popular handsets and devices through exclusive vendor arrangements, market to broader customer segments, offer service over larger geographic areas, or purchase equipment, supplies, handsets and services at lower prices than we can. As handset selection and pricing become increasingly important to customers, our inability to offer customers the latest and most popular handsets as a result of exclusive dealings between handset manufacturers and our larger competitors could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, advantages that our competitors may have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide roaming service, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we 21 Table of Contents believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to such carriers’ control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry and the attractive growth prospects in the prepaid segment have continued to increase and have caused a number of our competitors to offer competitively-priced unlimited prepaid and postpaid service offerings or increasingly large bundles of minutes of use at increasingly lower prices, which are competing with the predictable and unlimited Cricket Wireless service plans. For example, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless each offer unlimited service offerings. Sprint Nextel also offers a competitively-priced unlimited service offering under its Boost Unlimited and Virgin Mobile brands, which are similar to our Cricket Wireless service. T-Mobile also offers an unlimited plan that is competitively priced with our Cricket Wireless service. In addition, a number of MVNOs offer or have recently introduced competitively-priced service offerings. For example, Tracfone Wireless has introduced a wireless offering under its “Straight Talk” brand using Verizon’s wireless network. Moreover, some competitors offer prepaid wireless plans that are being advertised heavily to the same demographic segments we target. These various service offerings described above have presented, and are expected to continue to present, strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap. We may also face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace, many of whom may have significantly more resources than we do. The FCC is pursuing policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses and spectrum available for the provision of wireless voice and data services in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has adopted rules that allow the partitioning, disaggregation or leasing of wireless licenses, which may increase the number of our competitors. The FCC has also in recent years allowed satellite operators to use portions of their spectrum for ancillary terrestrial use, and also permitted the offering of broadband services over power lines. In addition, the auction and licensing of new spectrum may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not technologically or cost effectively be able to offer with the licenses we hold or to which we have access. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. In the third quarter of 2009, we revised a number of our Cricket Wireless service plans to provide additional features previously only available in our higher-priced plans. These changes, which were made in response to the competitive and economic environment, have resulted in lower average monthly revenue per customer. In addition, a number of our competitors have introduced “all-inclusive” rate plans which are priced to include applicable regulatory fees and taxes. In the event that we were to transition the pricing of our rate plans to generally include regulatory fees and taxes, this change could further impact our revenues. The evolving competitive landscape has negatively impacted our financial and operating results, and we expect that it may result in more competitive pricing, slower growth, higher costs and increased customer turnover, as well as the possibility of requiring us to further modify our service plans, increase our handset subsidies or increase our dealer compensation in response to competition. Any of these results or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Performance or Ability to Obtain Debt or Equity Financing on Reasonable Terms or at All. Our business and financial performance are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, energy costs and other macro-economic factors. Market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging in recent years. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a long-term downturn, high unemployment, high energy costs, the availability and cost of credit and unstable housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. Concern about the stability of the financial markets and the strength of counterparties has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce or cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers, and illiquid credit markets have adversely affected the cost and availability of credit. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike. Continued market turbulence and weak economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or 22 Table of Contents pass a credit check, our service is available to a broad customer base. As a result, during general economic downturns, we may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this base for our services and existing customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay. For example, rising unemployment levels have recently impacted our customer base, especially the lower-income segment of our customer base, by decreasing their discretionary income which has resulted in higher levels of churn. Continued recessionary conditions and tight credit conditions may also adversely impact our vendors and dealers, some of which have filed for or may be considering bankruptcy, or may experience cash flow or liquidity problems, any of which could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market or sell our products and services. For example, in 2009, Nortel Networks, which has provided a significant amount of our network infrastructure, sold substantially all of its network infrastructure business to Ericsson. As a result, sustained difficult, or worsening, general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, general economic conditions have significantly affected the ability of many companies to raise additional funding in the capital markets. U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and resulting in the unavailability of some forms of debt financing. Uncertainty in the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. These general economic conditions, combined with intensified competition in the wireless telecommunications industry and other factors, have also adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, which could significantly limit our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If We Experience Low Rates of Customer Acquisition or High Rates of Customer Turnover, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease. Our rates of customer acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of competitive factors in addition to the macro-economic factors described above, including the size of our calling areas, network performance and reliability issues, our handset and service offerings (including the ability of customers to cost-effectively roam onto other wireless networks), customer perceptions of our services, customer care quality and wireless number portability. We have also experienced an increasing trend of current customers upgrading their handset by buying a new phone, activating a new line of service, and letting their existing service lapse, which trend has resulted in a higher churn rate as these customers are counted as having disconnected service but have actually been retained. Managing these factors and customers’ expectations is essential in attracting and retaining customers. Although we have implemented programs to attract new customers and address customer turnover, we cannot assure you that these programs or our strategies to address customer acquisition and turnover will be successful. In addition, we and Denali Operations launched a significant number of new Cricket markets in 2008 and 2009. In newly launched markets, we expect to initially experience a greater degree of customer turnover due to the number of customers new to Cricket service, although we generally expect that churn will gradually improve as the average tenure of customers in such markets increases. A high rate of customer turnover or low rate of new customer acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of customers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Made Significant Investment, and May Continue to Invest, in Joint Ventures That We Do Not Control. We own a 70.7% non-controlling interest in LCW Wireless, which was awarded a wireless license for the Portland, Oregon market in Auction #58 and to which we contributed, among other things, two wireless licenses in Eugene and Salem, Oregon and related operating assets. CSM has exercised its right to put its entire membership interest in LCW Wireless to Cricket, which upon consummation would have the effect of increasing Cricket’s ownership interest to 94.6%. We also own an 82.5% non-controlling interest in Denali, an entity which acquired a wireless license covering the upper mid-west portion of the U.S in Auction #66 through a wholly owned subsidiary. 23 Table of Contents LCW Wireless and Denali acquired their wireless licenses as “very small business” designated entities under FCC regulations. Our participation in these joint ventures is structured as a non-controlling interest in order to comply with FCC rules and regulations. We have agreements with our joint venture partners in LCW Wireless and Denali that are intended to allow us to actively participate to a limited extent in the development of the business through the joint venture. However, these agreements do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of the joint venture, and may be terminated for convenience by the controlling member. The FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire controlling interests in such entities during the period that such entities must maintain their eligibility as a designated entity, as defined by the FCC. The entities or persons that control these joint ventures or any other joint venture in which we may invest may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. For example, we are currently discussing with DSM differences between us regarding the financial performance and expected long-term value of the joint venture. Although we continue to engage in discussions with DSM in hopes of resolving these differences, we may not be successful in doing so. If we are not successful in resolving these matters, we may seek to purchase all or a portion of DSM’s interest in the joint venture, which could represent a significant cash outflow. Alternatively, as the controlling member of Denali, DSM could seek to terminate the management services agreement and/or trademark license between Denali and Cricket and obtain management services from a third party, or it could take other actions that we believe could negatively impact Denali’s business. Any transition to another party of the services we currently provide could significantly disrupt the joint venture’s business, negatively impact its financial and operational performance and result in significant expenses for our business. As a result, any transition of management services to another party, or other material operational or financial disruptions to the joint venture, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If any of the members of our joint ventures files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to perform its obligations or does not manage the joint venture effectively, or if the joint venture files for bankruptcy, we may lose our equity investment in, and any present or future opportunity to acquire the assets (including wireless licenses) of, such entity (although a substantial portion of our investment in Denali consists of secured debt). The FCC has implemented rule changes aimed at addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program. While we do not believe that these recent rule changes materially affect our joint ventures with LCW Wireless and Denali, the scope and applicability of these rule changes to these designated entity structures remain in flux, and the changes remain subject to administrative and judicial review. On March 26, 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected one of the pending judicial challenges to the designated entity rules. Another appeal of these rules remains pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and seeks to overturn the results of the AWS and 700 MHz auctions. In addition, third parties and the federal government have challenged certain designated entity structures alleging violations of federal law and seeking monetary damages. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes, federal court litigation surrounding designated entity structures, increased regulatory scrutiny or third party or government lawsuits will affect our current or future business ventures, including our arrangements with respect to LCW Wireless and Denali, or our or Denali’s current license holdings or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. We May Be Unable to Obtain the Roaming Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive. We believe that our customers prefer that we offer roaming services that allow them to make calls automatically using the networks of other carriers when they are outside of their Cricket service area. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with several carriers for the majority of our roaming services. Our roaming agreements generally cover voice but not data services and some of these agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. 24 Table of Contents The FCC has adopted a report and order clarifying that commercial mobile radio service providers are required to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC order, however, does not address roaming for data services nor does it provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice or SMS text messaging services, and so our ability to obtain roaming services from other carriers at rates that we believe are reasonable remains uncertain. In addition, the FCC order indicates that a host carrier is not required to provide roaming services to another carrier in areas in which that other carrier holds wireless licenses or usage rights that could be used to provide wireless services. Because we and Denali License Sub hold a significant number of spectrum licenses for markets in which service has not yet been launched, we believe that this “in-market” roaming restriction could significantly and adversely affect our ability to receive roaming services in areas where we hold licenses. We and other wireless carriers have filed petitions with the FCC, asking that the agency reconsider this in-market exception to its roaming order. However, we can provide no assurances as to whether the FCC will reconsider this exception or the timeframe in which it might do so. In light of the current FCC order, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to provide roaming services for our customers across the nation or that we will be able to provide such services on a cost effective basis. We may be unable to enter into or maintain roaming arrangements for voice services at reasonable rates, including in areas in which we hold wireless licenses or have usage rights but have not yet constructed wireless facilities, and we may be unable to secure reasonable roaming arrangements for our data services. Our inability to obtain these roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Restated Certain of Our Prior Consolidated Financial Statements, Which Led to Additional Risks and Uncertainties, Including Shareholder Litigation. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007, we restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 (including interim periods therein), for the period from August 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004 and for the period from January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004. In addition, we restated our condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2007. The determination to restate these consolidated financial statements and quarterly condensed consolidated financial statements was made by Leap’s Audit Committee upon management’s recommendation following the identification of errors related to (i) the timing and recognition of certain service revenues and operating expenses, (ii) the recognition of service revenues for certain customers that voluntarily disconnected service, (iii) the classification of certain components of service revenues, equipment revenues and operating expenses and (iv) the determination of a tax valuation allowance during the second quarter of 2007. As a result of these events, we became subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. In addition, two shareholder derivative actions are currently pending, and we are party to a consolidated securities class action lawsuit. As described in “Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this report, we have reached an agreement in principle to settle the securities class action lawsuit. In addition, we have entered into discussions to settle the derivative suits, although no assurances can be given that we will be successful in doing so. If these matters do not settle on terms we consider reasonable, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected If Our Internal Controls Are Not Effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, each year we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. 25 Table of Contents In our quarterly and annual reports (as amended) for the periods ended from December 31, 2006 through September 30, 2008, we reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which related to the design of controls over the preparation and review of the account reconciliations and analysis of revenues, cost of revenue and deferred revenues, and ineffective testing of changes made to our revenue and billing systems in connection with the introduction or modification of service offerings. As described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009, we took a number of actions to remediate this material weakness, which included reviewing and designing enhancements to certain of our systems and processes relating to revenue recognition and user acceptance testing and hiring and promoting additional accounting personnel with the appropriate skills, training and experience in these areas. Based upon the remediation actions described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009, management concluded that the material weakness described above was remediated as of December 31, 2008. In addition, we previously reported that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2006. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures. Although we believe we took appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our Primary Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term. A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers service plans that allow unlimited wireless service from within a Cricket service area for a flat rate without entering into a fixed-term contract or passing a credit check. Our networks do not currently provide coverage across the U.S. or in all major metropolitan centers, and instead have a network footprint covering population centers of our various markets. This strategy may not prove to be successful in the long term. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have been unsuccessful. From time to time, we also evaluate our product and service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may modify, change, adjust or discontinue our product and service offerings or offer new products and services on a permanent, trial or promotional basis. We cannot assure you that these product or service offerings will be successful or prove to be profitable. We Expect to Incur Higher Operating Expenses in Recently Launched Markets, and We Could Incur Substantial Costs if We Were to Elect to Build Out Additional New Markets. During 2009, we and Denali Operations launched new markets in Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Lake Charles covering approximately 24.2 million additional POPs. Our strategic objectives depend on our ability to successfully and cost-effectively operate these recently launched markets as well as our more mature markets, and on customer acceptance of our Cricket product offerings. We generally expect to incur higher operating expenses as our existing business grows and during the first year after we launch service in new markets. If we fail to achieve consistent profitability in these markets, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we have identified new markets covering approximately 16 million additional POPs that we could elect to launch with Cricket service in the future using our wireless licenses, although we have not established a 26 Table of Contents timeline for any such build-out or launch. Large-scale construction projects for the build-out of any new markets would require significant capital expenditures and could suffer cost overruns. Significant capital expenditures and increased operating expenses, including in connection with the build-out and launch of new markets, decrease OIBDA and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs. In addition, the build-out of any new markets could be delayed or adversely affected by a variety of factors, uncertainties and contingencies, such as natural disasters, difficulties in obtaining zoning permits or other regulatory approvals, difficulties or delays in clearing U.S. government and/or incumbent commercial licensees from spectrum we intend to utilize, our relationships with our joint venture partners, and the timely performance by third parties of their contractual obligations to construct portions of the networks. Any failure to complete the build-out of any new markets that we elect to launch with Cricket service in the future on budget or on time could delay the implementation of our clustering and expansion strategies. If We Are Unable to Manage Our Planned Growth, Our Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted. We have experienced substantial growth in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future in our existing and new markets. During 2009, we and Denali Operations launched new markets in Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Lake Charles covering approximately 24.2 million additional POPs. The management of our growth requires, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and its growth, increased spending associated with marketing activities and acquisition of new customers, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. Furthermore, the implementation of new or expanded systems or platforms to accommodate our growth, and the transition to such systems or platforms from our existing infrastructure, could result in unpredictable technological or other difficulties. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development, to effectively manage launched markets, to enhance our processes and management systems or to timely and adequately resolve any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our rapid growth and the recent launch of new markets requires continued management and control of our handset inventories. From time to time, we have experienced inventory shortages, most notably with certain of our strongest-selling handsets, including shortages we experienced during the second quarter of 2009. While we intend to implement a new inventory management system in 2010 and have undertaken other efforts to address inventory forecasting, there can be no assurance that we will not experience inventory shortages in the future. Any failure to effectively manage and control our handset inventories could adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations. We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,743.3 million, including $1,100 million of senior secured notes due 2016 and $1,650.0 million in unsecured senior indebtedness, which comprised $1,100.0 million of senior notes due 2014, $250.0 million of convertible senior notes due 2014 and $300.0 million of senior notes due 2015. Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to service all of our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, network build-out and other activities, including acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 27 Table of Contents • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses associated with the launch of new product offerings or operating markets will decrease OIBDA and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness. Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We Are Permitted to Incur Additional Indebtedness. This Could Further Increase the Risks Associated With Our Leverage. The terms of the indentures governing Cricket’s secured and unsecured senior notes permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. The indenture governing Leap’s convertible senior notes does not limit our ability to incur debt. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business expansion efforts, which could consist of debt financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. To Service Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future financing will be available to us, in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay or service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or at all. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient for these purposes, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We or Our Joint Ventures May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness. We or our joint ventures may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, including indebtedness under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes. Our $1.1 billion of 9.375% unsecured senior notes and our $250 million of unsecured convertible senior notes are due in 2014, our $300 million of 10.0% unsecured senior notes is due in 2015 and our $1.1 billion of 7.75% senior secured notes is due in 2016. Outstanding borrowings under LCW Operation’s term loans must be repaid in quarterly installments (which commenced in June 2008), with an aggregate final payment of $10.1 million due in March 2011. There can be no assurance that we or our joint ventures will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 28 Table of Contents Covenants in Our Indentures and Other Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter Into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business. The indentures governing Cricket’s secured and unsecured senior notes contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and the subsidiary guarantors to make distributions or other payments to our investors or creditors until we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, these indentures include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; • sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. The restrictions in the indentures governing Cricket’s secured and unsecured senior notes could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar restrictions. Under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of secured or unsecured senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If we default under any of the indentures governing our secured or unsecured senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. Our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 constituted a default under the indenture governing Cricket’s unsecured senior notes due 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a waiver should a default occur in the future. Any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, and we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes. Our Ability to Use Net Operating Loss Carryforwards to Reduce Future Tax Payments Could be Negatively Impacted if There is an “Ownership Change” as Defined Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We have substantial federal and state net operating losses, or NOLs, for income tax purposes. Under the Internal Revenue Code, subject to certain requirements, we may “carry forward” our federal NOLs for up to a 20-year period to offset future taxable income and reduce our income tax liability. For state income tax purposes, the NOL carryforward period ranges from five to 20 years. At December 31, 2009, we estimated that we had federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $1.5 billion (which begin to expire in 2022), and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $1.5 billion ($21.9 million of which will expire at the end of 2010). While these NOL carryforwards have a potential value of approximately $570 million in tax savings, there is no assurance we will be able to realize such tax savings. If we were to experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions, at a time when our market capitalization was below a certain level, our ability to utilize 29 Table of Contents these NOLs to offset future taxable income could be significantly limited. In general terms, a change in ownership can occur whenever there is a shift in the ownership of a company by more than 50 percentage points by one or more “5% stockholders” within a three-year period. The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred is complex and requires significant judgement. If an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 were to occur, it could significantly limit the amount of NOL carryforwards that we could utilize on an annual basis, thus accelerating cash tax payments we would have to make and possibly causing these NOLs to expire before we could fully utilize them. As a result, any restriction on our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could have a material impact on our future cash flows. A Significant Portion of Our Assets Consists of Goodwill and Intangible Assets. As of December 31, 2009, 44.2% of our assets consisted of goodwill, intangible assets and wireless licenses. The value of our assets, and in particular, our intangible assets, will depend on market conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. By their nature, our intangible assets may not have a readily ascertainable market value or may not be readily saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for us to sell, or for any remedies to be exercised by our lenders with respect to, our wireless licenses, and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses. The Wireless Industry is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change, Which May Require Us to Significantly Increase Capital Investment, and We May Lose Customers If We Fail to Keep Up With These Changes. The wireless communications industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate or adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands. In the future, competitors may seek to provide competing wireless telecommunications service through the use of developing 4G technologies, such as WiMax and LTE. We are currently conducting technical trials of LTE technology. We cannot predict, however, which of many possible future technologies, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position or what expenditures we will be required to make in order to develop and provide these technologies, products and services. The cost of implementing or competing against future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. For example, we have expended a substantial amount of capital to upgrade our network with EvDO technology to offer advanced data services. In addition, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum to deploy these new technologies, which we cannot guarantee would be available to us at a reasonable cost, on a timely basis or at all. There are also risks that current or future versions of the wireless technologies and evolutionary path that we have selected or may select may not be demanded by customers or provide the advantages that we expect. If such upgrades, technologies or services do not become commercially acceptable, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that widespread demand for advanced data services will develop at a price level that will allow us to earn a reasonable return on our investment. In addition, there are risks that other wireless carriers on whose networks our customers currently roam may change their technology to other technologies that are incompatible with ours. As a result, the ability of our customers to roam on such carriers’ wireless networks could be adversely affected. If these risks materialize, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, we may not be able to negotiate cost-effective data roaming agreements on 4G or other data networks, and we are not able to assure you that customer handset and data devices that operate on 4G or other data networks will be available at costs that will make them attractive to customers. In addition, CDMA 1xRTT-based infrastructure networks serve a relatively small minority of wireless users worldwide and could become less popular in the future, which could raise the cost to us of network equipment and 30 Table of Contents handsets that use that technology relative to the cost of handsets and network equipment that utilize other technologies, or could result in advanced wireless devices becoming available to us later than devices available for GSM-based carriers. The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We have experienced higher than normal employee turnover in the past, in part because of our bankruptcy, including turnover of individuals at the most senior management levels. In addition, our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson. The loss of key individuals in the future may have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively manage and operate our business. In addition, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance. Risks Associated With Wireless Handsets Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture handsets or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their handsets to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the handsets we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with handsets to protect us from direct losses associated with product liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective. Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, anti-lock brakes, hearing aids and other medical devices. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that have overheated. Malfunctions have caused at least one major handset manufacturer to recall certain batteries used in its handsets, including batteries in a handset sold by Cricket and other wireless providers. Concerns over possible health and safety risks associated with radio frequency emissions and defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services, or result in regulatory restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, which could increase our operating expenses. Concerns over possible safety risks could decrease the demand for our services. For example, in 2008, a technical defect was discovered in one of our manufacturer’s handsets which appeared to prevent a portion of 911 calls from being heard by the operator. After learning of the defect, we instructed our retail locations to temporarily cease selling the handsets, notified our customers of the matter and directed them to bring their handsets into our retail locations to receive correcting software. If one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by a manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while operating vehicles or equipment. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that has been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service. 31 Table of Contents We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Products or Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors, service providers or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply or provide services to us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products and services we purchase or use. However, some suppliers and contractors are the exclusive sources of specific products and services that we rely upon for billing, customer care, sales, accounting and other areas in our business. For example, in December 2008 we entered into a long-term, exclusive services agreement with Convergys Corporation for the implementation and ongoing management of a new billing system. We also use a limited number of vendors to provide payment processing services, and in a significant number of our markets, the majority of these services may be provided by a single vendor. In addition, a limited number of vendors currently provide a majority of our voice and data communications transport services. Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier or service provider to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers or service providers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System Failures, Security Breaches, Business Disruptions and Unauthorized Use or Interference with our Network or other Systems Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power surges or outages, natural disasters, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing or similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities or with our technical infrastructure, system or equipment failures, hardware or software failures or defects, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause network service interruptions. Unauthorized access to or use of customer or account information, including credit card or other personal data, could result in harm to our customers and legal actions against us, and could damage our reputation. In addition, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, fires and other unforeseen natural disasters or events could materially disrupt our business operations or the provision of Cricket service in one or more markets. For example, during the third quarter of 2008, our customer acquisitions, cost of service and revenues in certain markets were adversely affected by Hurricane Ike and related weather systems. Any costs we incur to restore, repair or replace our network or technical infrastructure, and any costs associated with detecting, monitoring or reducing the incidence of unauthorized use, may be substantial and increase our cost of providing service. Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, point of sale, inventory management, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Are in the Process of Upgrading a Number of Significant Business Systems, including our Customer Billing System, and Any Unanticipated Difficulties, Delays or Interruptions with the Transition Could Negatively Impact Our Business. We are in the process of upgrading a number of our significant, internal business systems, including our customer billing system. In December 2008, we entered into a long-term, exclusive services agreement with Convergys for the implementation and ongoing management of the new billing system. To help facilitate the transition of customer billing from our previous vendor, VeriSign, Inc., to Convergys, we acquired VeriSign’s billing system software and simultaneously entered into a transition services agreement to enable Convergys to 32 Table of Contents provide us with billing services using the VeriSign software we acquired until the conversion to the new system is complete. In addition to the new billing system, we also intend to implement a new inventory management system and new point-of-sale system. We cannot assure you that we will not experience difficulties, delays or interruptions while we implement and transition to these new systems. At times during the transition of our billing system, we will be limited in our ability to modify our current product and service offerings or to offer new products and services. In addition, the transition of these systems may not progress according to our current schedule and could suffer cost overruns. Significant unexpected difficulties in transitioning our billing, inventory, point-of-sale systems or other systems could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information that is important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We May Not Be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which only offer limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide us with any competitive advantages. In addition, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. Our inability to secure trademark or service mark protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and Our Suppliers May Be Subject to Claims of Infringement Regarding Telecommunications Technologies That Are Protected By Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services that we or they use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks. For example, see “Part I— Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Patent Litigation” of this report for a description of certain patent infringement lawsuits that have been brought against us. Due in part to the growth and expansion of our business operations, we have become subject to increased amounts of litigation, including disputes alleging patent infringement. If plaintiffs in any patent litigation matters brought against us were to prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to help protect us against possible infringement claims. However, depending on the nature and scope of a possible claim, we may not be entitled to seek indemnification from the manufacturer, vendor or supplier under the terms of the agreement. In addition, to the extent that we may be entitled to seek indemnification under the terms of an agreement, we cannot guarantee that the financial condition of an indemnifying party will be sufficient to protect us against all losses associated with infringement claims or that we would be fully indemnified against all possible losses associated with a possible claim. In addition, our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that could prevent or make it more expensive 33 Table of Contents for them to supply us with the products and services we require to run our business, which could have the effect of slowing or limiting our ability to introduce products and services to our customers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim against us or a supplier is valid or successful, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or requiring us to redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, infringement claims against our suppliers could also require us to purchase products and services at higher prices or from different suppliers and could adversely affect our business by delaying our ability to offer certain products and services to our customers. Action by Congress or Government Agencies May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. In addition, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. We also cannot assure you that Congress will not amend the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, or enact legislation in a manner that could be adverse to us. For example, the FCC has implemented rule changes and sought comment on further rule changes focused on addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, which gives certain categories of small businesses preferential treatment in FCC spectrum auctions based on size. In that proceeding, the FCC has re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. The scope and applicability of these rule changes to these designated entity structures remain in flux, and the changes remain subject to administrative and judicial review. In March 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected one of the pending judicial challenges to the designated entity rules, and another appeal of these rules remains pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit that seeks to overturn the results of the AWS and 700 MHz auctions. In addition, third parties and the federal government have challenged certain designated entity structures alleging violations of federal law and seeking monetary damages. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes, judicial review of the designated entity rules, increased regulatory scrutiny that may follow from these proceedings or third party or government lawsuits will affect our current or future business ventures, licenses acquired in the challenged auctions, or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. The DMCA prohibits the circumvention of technological measures employed to protect a copyrighted work, or access control. However, under the DMCA, the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, has the authority to exempt for three years certain activities from copyright liability that otherwise might be prohibited by that statute. In November 2006, the Copyright Office granted an exemption to the DMCA to allow circumvention of software locks and other firmware that prohibit a wireless handset from connecting to a wireless network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the wireless handset to another wireless telephone network. This exemption was due to expire on October 27, 2009 and has been temporarily extended. The DMCA copyright exemption facilitates our current practice of allowing customers to bring in unlocked, or “reflashed,” phones that they already own and may have used with another wireless carrier, and activate them on our network. We and other carriers have asked the Copyright Office to extend the current or substantially similar exemption for another three-year period. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of the Copyright Office’s determination to continue the exemption for this time period or the effect that a Copyright Office decision not to extend the exemption might have on our business. To the extent that the Copyright Office determines 34 Table of Contents not to extend this exemption for an extended period of time and this prevents us from activating “reflashed” handsets on our network, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee’s capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity (as is the case with Leap’s ownership and control of subsidiaries that hold FCC licenses), up to 25% of that entity’s capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our wireless licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or could take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage in order to avoid the loss of our licenses, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such a ruling or that any other actions we may take would be successful. We also are subject, or potentially subject, to numerous additional rules and requirements, including universal service obligations; number portability requirements; number pooling rules; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; roaming obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rate averaging and integration requirements; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. There also pending proceedings exploring the imposition of various types of nondiscrimination, open access and broadband management obligations on our handsets and networks; the prohibition of handset exclusivity; the possible re-imposition of bright-line spectrum aggregation requirements; further regulation of special access used for wireless backhaul services; and the effects of the siting of communications towers on migratory birds, among others. Some of these requirements and pending proceedings (of which the foregoing examples are not an exhaustive list) pose technical and operational challenges to which we, and the industry as a whole, have not yet developed clear solutions. These requirements generally are the subject of pending FCC or judicial proceedings, and we are unable to predict how they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our operations are subject to various other laws and regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, other federal agencies and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, legislation or governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. If Call Volume or Wireless Broadband Usage Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operating Expenses. Cricket Wireless customers generally use their handsets for voice calls for an average of approximately 1,500 minutes per month, and some markets experience substantially higher call volumes. Our Cricket Wireless service plans bundle certain features, long distance and unlimited service in Cricket calling areas for a fixed monthly fee to more effectively compete with other telecommunications providers. We also offer Cricket Broadband, our unlimited mobile broadband service, and Cricket PAYGo, a pay-as-you-go unlimited prepaid wireless service. If customers exceed expected usage for our voice or mobile broadband services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high rates of usage of 35 Table of Contents voice and mobile broadband services, and we consistently assess and try to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. We currently manage our network and users of our Cricket Broadband service by limiting throughput speeds if their usage adversely impacts our network or service levels or if usage exceeds certain thresholds. However, if future wireless use by Cricket customers exceeds the capacity of our network, service quality may suffer. We may be forced to raise the price of our voice or mobile broadband services to reduce volume, further limit data quantities or speeds, otherwise limit the number of new customers, acquire additional spectrum, or incur substantial capital expenditures to improve network capacity or quality. We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or on a Timely Basis. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed rate, our customers’ average minutes of use per month is substantially above U.S. averages. In addition, customer usage of our Cricket Broadband service has been significant. We intend to meet demand for our wireless services by utilizing spectrally efficient technologies. Despite our recent spectrum purchases, there may come a point where we need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain an acceptable grade of service or provide new services to meet increasing customer demands. For example, Denali Operations currently operates on 10 MHz of spectrum in its newly launched Chicago market. In the future, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum in this and other of our markets to satisfy increasing demand (especially for data services) or to deploy new technologies, such as WiMax or LTE. In addition, we also may acquire additional spectrum in order to enter new strategic markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC on a timely basis. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on the use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements, that may make it less attractive or economical for us. If such additional spectrum is not available to us when required on reasonable terms or at a reasonable cost, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our Wireless Licenses are Subject to Renewal and May Be Revoked in the Event that We Violate Applicable Laws. Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10-year or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our PCS wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that timely files a renewal application, has provided substantial service during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. Historically, the FCC has approved our license renewal applications. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. In addition, if we fail to timely file to renew any wireless license, or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal. Many of our wireless licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, sufficient to meet the build-out or renewal requirements. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. If any of our wireless licenses were to be revoked or not renewed upon expiration, we would not be permitted to provide services under that license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Wireless Licenses Could Result in Future Impairment Charges. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our wireless licenses and those of Denali License Sub and LCW License was approximately $1.9 billion. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we recorded impairment charges of $0.6 million, $0.2 million and $1.0 million, respectively. 36 Table of Contents The market values of wireless licenses have varied over the last several years, and may vary significantly in the future. Valuation swings could occur for a variety of reasons relating to supply and demand, including: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings; • a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or • market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in FCC auctions. In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, during recent years, the FCC auctioned additional spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in Auction #66 and the 700 MHz band in Auction #73, and has announced that it intends to auction additional spectrum in the 2.5 GHz band. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We conduct our annual tests for impairment of our wireless licenses during the third quarter of each year. Estimates of the fair value of our wireless licenses are based primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions, pricing trends among historical wireless license transactions, our spectrum holdings within a given market relative to other carriers’ holdings and qualitative demographic and economic information concerning the areas that comprise our markets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet. Declines in Our Operating or Financial Performance Could Result in an Impairment of Our Indefinite-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill. We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We also assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. General economic conditions in the U.S. have recently adversely impacted the trading prices of securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, due to concerns regarding recessionary economic conditions, tighter credit conditions, the subprime lending and financial crisis, volatile energy costs, a substantial slowdown in economic activity, decreased consumer confidence and other factors. If our projected financial or operating performance were to be adversely affected due to significant adverse changes in legal factors or in our business climate, adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or likely sale or disposal of all or a significant portion of a reporting unit, this could constitute a triggering event which would require us to perform an interim goodwill impairment test prior to our next annual impairment test, possibly as soon as the first quarter of 2010. If the first step of the interim impairment test were to indicate that a potential impairment existed, we would be required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test, which would require us to determine the fair value of our net assets and could require us to recognize a material non-cash impairment charge that could reduce all or a portion of the carrying value of our goodwill of $430.1 million. Any significant reduction in the carrying value of our goodwill, wireless licenses and/or our long-lived assets could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of local exchange carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. Similarly, when a customer of another carrier calls one of our customers, that carrier is required to pay us. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some local exchange carriers have claimed 37 Table of Contents a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. Some of these carriers have threatened to pursue, have initiated, or may in the future initiate, claims against us to recover these charges, and the outcome of any such claims is uncertain. The FCC is actively considering possible regulatory approaches to address this situation but we cannot assure you that any FCC action will be beneficial to us. The enactment of adverse FCC rules, regulations or decisions or any FCC inaction could result in carriers successfully collecting higher intercarrier fees from us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. More broadly, the FCC is actively considering whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime can or should be established for all traffic exchanged between all carriers, including commercial mobile radio services carriers. There are also pending appeals of various substantive and procedural aspects of the intercarrier compensation regime in the courts, at the FCC and before state regulatory bodies. New or modified intercarrier compensation rules, if adopted, may increase the charges we are required to pay other carriers for terminating calls or transiting calls over their networks, increase the costs of, or make it more difficult to negotiate, new agreements with carriers, decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls from other carriers on our network, or result in significant costs to us for past and future termination charges. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We resell third party long distance services in connection with our offering of unlimited international long distance service. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory body having jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. If the charges are modified, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international long distance provider. If such charges are substantial, or we cease providing service to the foreign destination, prospective customers may elect not to use our service and current customers may choose to terminate service. Such events could limit our ability to grow our customer base, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Will Decrease. Our operating costs could increase substantially as a result of fraud, including customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the types of fraud we have identified. However, if our strategies are not successful in detecting and controlling fraud, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Leap Common Stock Our Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment. The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of Leap common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of Leap common stock may include, among other things: • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • entry of new competitors into our markets, changes in product and service offerings by us or our competitors, or changes in the prices charged for product and service offerings by us or our competitors; • significant developments with respect to intellectual property, securities or related litigation; • announcements of and bidding in auctions for new spectrum; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock; 38 Table of Contents • any default under any of the indentures governing our secured or unsecured senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise; • rumors or speculation in the marketplace regarding acquisitions or consolidation in our industry, including regarding transactions involving Leap; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, general economic conditions in the U.S. have recently adversely impacted the trading prices of securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, due to concerns regarding recessionary economic conditions, tighter credit conditions, the subprime lending and financial crisis, volatile energy costs, a substantial slowdown in economic activity, decreased consumer confidence and other factors. The trading price of Leap’s common stock has also been impacted by increased competition in prepaid offerings by wireless companies. The trading price of Leap common stock may continue to be adversely affected if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition or results of operations will be negatively impacted by these negative general economic conditions or increased competition. We Could Elect to Raise Additional Equity Capital Which Could Dilute Existing Stockholders. During the second quarter of 2009 we sold 7,000,000 shares of Leap common stock in an underwritten public offering. We could raise additional capital in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business expansion efforts. Any additional capital we could raise could be significant and could consist of debt, convertible debt or equity financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we have filed a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement may be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. To the extent that we were to elect to raise equity capital, this financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted Upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. As of February 19, 2010, 77,500,550 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 6,748,910 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 4,532,089 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended, 1,334,614 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, 222,500 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan, 128,100 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan, and 531,607 shares available for future issuance under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Leap has also reserved up to 4,761,000 shares of its common stock for issuance upon conversion of its $250 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2014. Holders may convert their notes into shares of Leap common stock at any time on or prior to the third scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the notes, July 15, 2014. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock is less than or equal to approximately $93.21 per share, the notes will be convertible into 10.7290 shares of Leap common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes (referred to as the “base conversion rate”), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock exceeds approximately $93.21 per share, the conversion rate will be determined pursuant to a formula based on the base conversion rate and an incremental share factor of 8.3150 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, subject to adjustment. At an applicable stock price of approximately $93.21 per share, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 2,682,250 shares. Upon the occurrence of a 39 Table of Contents “make-whole fundamental change” of Leap under the indenture, under certain circumstances the maximum number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 4,761,000 shares. In addition, Leap has reserved five percent of its outstanding shares, which represented 3,875,028 shares of common stock as of February 19, 2010, for potential issuance to CSM on the exercise of CSM’s option to put its entire equity interest in LCW Wireless to Cricket. Under the LCW LLC Agreement, the purchase price for CSM’s equity interest is calculated on a pro rata basis using either the appraised value of LCW Wireless or a multiple of Leap’s enterprise value divided by its adjusted EBITDA and applied to LCW Wireless’ adjusted EBITDA to impute an enterprise value and equity value for LCW Wireless. Cricket may satisfy the put price either in cash or in Leap common stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by Cricket in its discretion. If Cricket elects to satisfy its put obligations to CSM with Leap common stock, the obligations of the parties are conditioned upon the block of Leap common stock issuable to CSM not constituting more than five percent of Leap’s outstanding common stock at the time of issuance. Dilution of the outstanding number of shares of Leap common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Leap common stock. Effective as of August 31, 2009, CSM exercised this put right. Pursuant to the LCW LLC Agreement, the purchase price for the put has been calculated on a pro rata basis using the appraised value of LCW Wireless, subject to certain adjustments. Based on the resulting appraised value of LCW Wireless, the put price, as adjusted, is estimated to be approximately $21 million. We intend to satisfy the put price in cash and completion of this transaction is subject to customary closing conditions. We have agreed to prepare and file a resale shelf registration statement for any shares of Leap common stock issued to CSM in connection with the put, and to use our reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC. In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option, restricted stock and deferred stock unit plan, under our employment inducement equity incentive plan and under our employee stock purchase plan. When we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market. If any of Leap’s stockholders causes a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs, and Our Ownership Is Highly Concentrated. Sales of a Significant Number of Shares by Large Stockholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 20.9% of Leap common stock as of February 19, 2010. Moreover, our eight largest stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 73.6% of Leap common stock as of February 19, 2010. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap’s assets and other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Our resale shelf registration statements register for resale 15,537,869 shares of Leap common stock held by entities affiliated with one of our directors, or approximately 20.0% of Leap’s outstanding common stock as of February 19, 2010. In addition, in connection with our offering of 7,000,000 shares of Leap common stock in the second quarter of 2009, we agreed to register for resale any additional shares of common stock that these entities or their affiliates may acquire in the future. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares, or any of the other shares held by our other large stockholders and entities affiliated with them, may have on the then-prevailing market price of Leap common stock. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales could also impede our ability to raise future capital. 40 Table of Contents Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, under Delaware Law, or in Our Indentures Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress the Trading Price of Leap Common Stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of Leap common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, under the indentures governing our secured and unsecured senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of secured or unsecured senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 