ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a changing environment that involves numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our operations. The following highlights some of the factors that have affected, and in the future could affect, our operations. We have only been profitable in recent years. We achieved net income of $2,626,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $8,493,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 which includes income of $6,903,000 recorded as a one-time, non-cash income tax benefit (See Note F to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). In addition, we achieved net income of $19,236,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to our receipt of $31,145,000 from our patent infringement litigation settlement achieved in July 2010 (See Note J[2] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). Prior to the year ended December 31, 2010 we incurred substantial operating losses since inception (July 1990) and as of December 31, 2012 we had an accumulated deficit of $29,278,000. We had revenue of $8,698,000, $7,398,000 and $33,037,000 from operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. Our ability to achieve revenue, net income and generate positive cash flow from operations is currently dependent upon receipt of royalty revenue from licensing agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent. As of March 20, 2013, we have entered into sixteen (16) license agreements with respect to our Remote Power Patent, which among others, includes license agreements with Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco-Linksys, Microsemi Corporation, Motorola Systems, Inc., NEC Corporation, Extreme Networks, Inc., Netgear, Inc., and several other major data equipment manufacturers. While we believe, based on our current cash position and projected licensing revenue from our existing licensing agreements, we will have sufficient cash to fund our operations for the foreseeable future, this may not be the case. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our patents. Our success is substantially dependent upon our proprietary technologies and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We currently hold ten patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that relate to various telecommunications and data networking technologies as well as identification of online media works and include among other things, our Remote Power Patent covering the delivery of power to certain devices over PoE networks, patents relating to identification of media content and patents covering the transmission of audio, voice and data over computer and telephony networks. Our focus to date has been on licensing our Remote Power Patent and the acquisition of additional patents, such as our February 2013 acquisition of 4 patents relating to the identification of online media works. We rely upon our patents and trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. The complexity of patent and common law and the uncertainty of the outcome of litigation create risk that our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies may not be successful. We cannot assure you that our patents will be upheld or that third parties will not invalidate our patent rights. If our intellectual property rights are not upheld, particularly our Remote Power Patent, such an event would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Any litigation to protect our intellectual property or any third party claims to invalidate our patents could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the future, it may be necessary for us to commence patent litigation against third parties whom we believe require a license to our patents, as was the case with respect to our pending litigation against eleven (11) data equipment manufacturers commenced in September 2011 relating to our Remote Power Patent (See Note J[1]to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). We generally incur significant expenses and commit significant management time with respect to such legal proceedings which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any additional legal proceedings and the outcome of such litigation could be harmful to us. In addition, we may be subject to claims seeking to invalidate our patents, as typically asserted by defendants in patent litigation. If we are unsuccessful in enforcing and validating our patents and/or if third parties making claims against us seeking to invalidate our patents are successful, they may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which effectively could block our ability to license or otherwise capitalize on our proprietary technologies. Furthermore, then existing licensees of our patents may no longer be obligated to pay royalties to us. Successful litigation against us resulting in a determination that our patents are not valid or enforceable, and/or that third parties do not infringe would have a material adverse effect on us. Our revenue and profit is currently dependent upon the continued validity of our Remote Power Patent. We currently have 12 license agreements pursuant to which licensees have an obligation to pay us royalties on an ongoing basis. Such royalty bearing licenses include, among others, agreements with Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco-Linksys, LLC, Microsemi Corporation, Netgear, Inc., Motorola Solutions, Inc. and NEC Corporation. The obligation of licensees of our Remote Power Patent to continue to make royalty payments to us is contingent upon the continued validity of our Remote Power Patent. The validity and infringement of our Remote Power Patent are currently at issue in our pending litigation in Tyler, Texas (See Note J[1] to our financial statements included in this Annual Report). In addition, the validity of the Remote Power Patent is also at issue in the reexamination and Inter Partes Review proceedings filed at the United States Patent and Trademark Office. In the event our Remote Power Patent is determined to be invalid, licensees of our Remote Power Patent would have no further obligation to make royalty payments to us which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 An Adverse Ruling by the USPTO (which is not subsequently overturned) with respect to the ex parte reexamination or the Inter Partes Review of our Remote Power Patent would have a material adverse effect on us. On July 20, 2012, an unknown third party filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“USPTO”) a request for ex parte reexamination of certain claims of our Remote Power Patent. On September 5, 2012, the USPTO issued an order granting the reexamination. The request for reexamination was stayed by the USPTO on December 21, 2012 pending the termination or completion of the Inter Partes Review proceedings described below. The initial grant of the reexamination by USPTO is not unusual as the majority of such applications are initially granted. Management believes that the reexamination proceeding will further validate and strengthen our Remote Power Patent, although there is no certainty of a favorable outcome. In addition to the reexamination proceeding referenced above, there have been two Inter Partes Review petitions filed in the USPTO pertaining to our Remote Power Patent. On December 5, 2012, Avaya Inc. filed a petition to institute an Inter Partes Review of the Remote Power Patent. On December 19, 2012, Sony Corporation of America, Axis Communications AB, and Axis Communications, Inc. filed a separate petition to also institute an Inter Partes Review of the Remote Power Patent. Petitioners in each Inter Partes Review seek to cancel certain claims of the Remote Power Patent as unpatentable. The USPTO has not yet made a determination of whether a trial will proceed in either Inter Partes Review proceeding. In the event that the USPTO reaches a final determination in the Inter Partes Review proceedings or the ex parte reexamination that certain of our claims related to the Remote Power Patent are unpatentable such a determination (unless subsequently overturned) would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations as our entire revenue stream is currently dependent upon the continued validity of our Remote Power Patent. We may not be able to capitalize on our strategy to acquire additional patents or enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. As a result of our patent litigation settlement in July 2010 and the success we have achieved to date from licensing our Remote Power Patent, we believe we have the expertise and sufficient capital to compete in the intellectual property acquisition market and to enter strategic relationships with third parties to develop, commercialize, license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. While we continually evaluate patent acquisition opportunities, we only recently completed (February 2013) our first acquisition of patents since November 2003. In addition, we have not yet entered into any strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property. Accordingly, we may not be able to acquire additional intellectual property or, if acquired, we may not achieve material revenue from such intellectual property. Furthermore, we may not be able to enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property and, even if we consummate such strategic relationships, we may not achieve material revenue or profit from such relationships. Acquisitions of patent assets are competitive, time consuming, 12 complex and costly to consummate. In addition, such acquisitions present material risks. Even if we successfully acquire particular patent assets, such as the patents acquired in February 2013 related to the identification of media content on the Internet, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue related to those patent assets to offset the acquisition costs and the legal fees and expenses which may be incurred to enforce, license or otherwise monetize such patents. We are currently largely dependent upon our license agreement with Cisco for a significant portion of our royalty revenue. The loss of Cisco as a licensee would seriously hurt our business. Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco Linksys, LLC (collectively, “Cisco”) accounted for 77% and 87% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. In accordance with our Settlement and License Agreement, dated May 25, 2011, with Cisco (the “Agreement”), which expanded upon the short form settlement agreement entered into in July 2010, Cisco is obligated to pay us royalties on a quarterly basis (which began in the first quarter of 2011) based on its sale of PoE products in the United States up to the maximum royalties per year of $8 million through 2015 and $9 million per year thereafter for the remaining term of the patent. The royalty payments are subject to certain conditions including the continued validity of our Remote Power Patent and the actual royalty payments may be less than the caps stated above, as was the case for 2012 and 2011. Due to our annual royalty rate structure with Cisco which includes declining rates as the volume of PoE product sales increase during the year, annual royalties from Cisco are anticipated to be highest in the first quarter and decline for each of the remaining quarters of the year. Under the terms of the Agreement, if we grant other licenses with lower royalty rates to third parties (as defined in the Agreement), Cisco shall be entitled to the benefit of the lower royalty rates provided it agrees to the material terms of such other license. Under the terms of the Agreement, we have certain obligations to Cisco and if we materially breach such terms, Cisco will be entitled to stop paying royalties to us. This would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current licenses for our Remote Power Patent may not continue to result in significant royalties and do not necessarily mean we will achieve additional license agreements. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we earned aggregate royalty payments of $8,698,000 and $7,398,000, respectively, with respect to our license agreements for our Remote Power Patent. We currently have license agreements for our Remote Power Patent with sixteen (16 licensees) including, among others, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco Linksys, LLC, (collectively, “Cisco”) Netgear, Inc., Microsemi Corporation, Extreme Networks, Inc., Motorola Solutions, Inc. and NEC Corporation pursuant to which such parties are obligated to pay us on-going royalties on a monthly or quarterly basis. Notwithstanding such royalty bearing license agreements, we may not continue to achieve significant royalty revenue from such license agreements. In addition, we may not be able to achieve additional material license agreements with third parties relating to our Remote Power Patent. Our failure to continue to achieve significant royalty revenue from our existing license agreements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to consummate additional licensing agreements resulting in material revenue with respect to our Remote Power Patent. 13 Our current business depends upon the continued viability of the PoE market. Ethernet is the leading local area networking technology in use today. PoE technology allows for the delivery of power over Ethernet (“PoE”) cables rather than by separate power cords. As a result a wide variety of network devices, including IP telephones, wireless LAN access points, web-based network security cameras, data collection terminals and other network devices are able to receive power over existing data cables. To date the market for PoE has continued to expand. The failure of the PoE market to remain viable would have a material adverse effect on licensing revenue for our Remote Power Patent which is currently our sole patent generating licensing revenue. A limited number of our licensees account for a significant portion of our total revenues. One of our licensees, Cisco Systems, Inc. and Cisco-Linksys, LLC (collectively, “Cisco”), accounted for 77% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 87% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011. It is anticipated that a few licensees will continue to constitute a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. To the extent such sales of PoE products by our significant licensees are adversely affected our revenues will be significantly impacted. Our pending litigation against eleven data networking equipment manufacturers may be time consuming and costly and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our lawsuit. In September 2011, we initiated patent litigation against 16 data networking equipment manufacturers in the United States District of Texas, Tyler Division, for infringement of our Remote Power Patent. Named as defendants in the lawsuit, excluding related parties, were Alcatel-Lucent USA, Inc., Allied Telesis, Inc., Avaya Inc., AXIS Communications Inc., Dell, Inc., GarrettCom, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Huawei Technologies USA, Juniper Networks, Inx., Motorola Solutions, Inc., NEC Corporation, Polycom Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., ShoreTel, Inc., Sony Electronics, Inc., and Transitions Networks, Inc. Network-1 seeks monetary damages based upon reasonable royalties. During 2012, we reached settlement agreements with defendants Motorola Solutions, Inc. ("Motorola"), Transition Networks, Inc. ("Transition Networks") and GarretCom, Inc (“GarretCom”). In February 2013, we reached settlement agreements with Allied Telesis, Inc. (“Allied Telesis) and NEC Corporation (“NEC”). As part of the settlements, Motorola, Transition Networks, GarretCom, Allied Telesis and NEC each entered into a non-exclusive license agreement for our Remote Power Patent pursuant to which each such defendant agreed to license our Remote Power Patent for its full term (which expires in March 2020) and pay a license initiation fee and quarterly or annual royalties based on their sales of PoE products. 14 Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. The defendants are all large, well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than us. We cannot assure you that this lawsuit will result in a final outcome that is favorable to us. We anticipate that the litigation could continue for a number of years and while we have a contingent legal fee arrangement with our patent litigation counsel, we are responsible for a portion of the expenses which are anticipated to be material. The time and effort required of our management to effectively pursue this litigation is likely to be significant and it may adversely affect other business opportunities. We face intense competition to acquire intellectual property and enter into strategic relationships. With respect to our ability to acquire additional intellectual property or enter into strategic relationships with third parties to monetize their intellectual property, we face considerable competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial and other resources than we have. The patent licensing and enforcement industry has grown over the past several years and there has been an increase in the number of companies seeking to acquire intellectual property rights from third parties. Entities including, among others, Acacia Research Corporation, Altitude Capital Partners, Intellectual Ventures, Millenium Partners and RPX Corporation also seek to acquire or partner with third parties to license or enforce intellectual property rights. It is expected that others will enter this market as well. Many of these competitors have significantly more financial and human resources than us. We may also compete with strategic corporate buyers, litigation funding firms, venture capital firms and hedge funds for intellectual property acquisitions and licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors have more financial resources and human resources than us. New legislation, regulations or court rulings related to enforcing patents could adversely affect our business and operating results. If Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office or courts implement new legislation, regulations or rulings that impact the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our business and operating results. This, in turn, could reduce the value of our patents including our Remote Power Patent, as well as patents owned by third parties that we may enter into strategic relationships with. For example, limitations on the ability to bring patent enforcement claims including such limitations on non-practicing entities (NPEs) such as the Company, limitations on the number of defendants that can be joined in a single patent litigation, limitations on potential liability for patent infringement, lower evidentiary standards and new procedures for invalidating patents, increased difficulty for parties making patent assertions to obtain injunctions, and other similar developments could negatively affect our ability to assert our patent rights successfully, decrease the revenue associated with asserting or licensing our patent rights and increase the cost of bringing patent enforcement actions. Any of these events could result in a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 15 Our quarterly and annual operating and financial results and our revenue are likely to fluctuate significantly in future periods. Our quarterly and annual operating and financial results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our revenue and net income were $8,698,000 and $2,626,000, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. Our revenue was $7,398,000 with net income of $8,493,000 (including net income of $6,903,000 related to the recording of a deferred tax benefit) for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to revenue of $33,037,000 and net income of $19,236,000 for the year ended December 31, 2010 (which 2010 revenue and net income were primarily due to achieving a large settlement of a patent litigation in July 2010). Accordingly, our revenue, net income and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors that are outside our control including, but not limited to, our ability and timing in consummating future license agreements for our intellectual property, the timing and extent of royalty payments received by us from licensees of our Remote Power Patent, the timing and our ability to achieve successful outcomes from current and future patent litigation, and the timing and our ability to achieve revenue from future strategic relationships. We may need additional financing to implement our strategy and expand our business. We may need additional equity or debt financing beyond our existing cash to pursue our strategy including the acquisition of additional intellectual property or to enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or monetize their intellectual property. Any additional financing that we need may not be available and, if available, may not be available on terms that are acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain financing on a timely basis, or on economically favorable terms, could prevent us from pursuing our intellectual property acquisition strategy or from responding to changing business or economic conditions and could cause us to experience difficulty in withstanding adverse operating results. We do not intend to pay regular future dividends on our common stock and thus stockholders must look to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investments. Although we paid a special cash dividend of $0.10 per share to holders of our common stock with a record date of December 13, 2010, we did not pay any dividends in 2012 and 2011 and we do not have any plans to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. Our future dividend policy is within the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon various factors, including future earnings, if any, operations, capital requirements, our general financial condition, the preferences of any series of preferred stock, our general business conditions and future contractual restrictions on payment of dividends, if any. Accordingly, stockholders must look solely to appreciation of our common stock to realize a gain on their investment. This appreciation may not occur. 16 Because ownership of our common stock is concentrated, investors may have limited influence on stockholder decisions. As of March 20, 2013, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned 31.1% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders may be able to exercise substantial control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. This concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a third party from acquiring control over us. For information regarding the ownership of our outstanding stock by our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, see “Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters” on page 44 of this Annual Report. Our markets are subject to rapid technological change and our technologies face potential technology obsolescence. The markets covered by our intellectual property are characterized by rapid technological changes, changing customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. The introduction of products embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards may render our technologies obsolete or less marketable. In addition, other companies may develop competing technologies that offer better or less expensive alternatives to PoE and the other technologies covered by our intellectual property. Several companies have notified the IEEE that they may have patents and proprietary technologies that are covered by the Standard. In the event any of those companies asserts claims relating to our patents, the licensing royalties available to us may be limited. Moreover, technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors or adopted by various standards groups could render our Remote Power Patent obsolete, less marketable or unenforceable. Dependence upon CEO and Chairman. Our success is largely dependent upon the personal efforts of Corey M. Horowitz, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors. On November 1, 2012, we entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Horowitz pursuant to which he continues to serve as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for a one year period (which shall automatically be extended for two successive one year periods unless terminated by us). The loss of the services of Mr. Horowitz would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We do not maintain key-man life insurance on the life of Mr. Horowitz. 17 The burdens of being a public company may adversely affect our ability to pursue litigation. As a public company, our management must devote substantial time, attention and financial resources to comply with U.S. securities laws. This may have a material adverse effect on management’s ability to effectively and efficiently pursue litigation as well as our other business initiatives. In addition, our disclosure obligations under U.S. securities laws require us to disclose information publicly that will be available to future litigation opponents. We may, from time to time, be required to disclose information that may have a material adverse affect on our litigation strategies. This information may enable our litigation opponents to develop effective litigation strategies that are contrary to our interests. Because our common stock trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, you may not be able to buy and sell our common stock at optimum prices and you face liquidity issues. The Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board ("OTCBB") is a regulated quotation service that displays quotes, last sales prices and volume in over-the-counter securities. The trading of our stock on the OTCBB imposes, among others, the following risks: ● Availability of quotes and order information – Because OTCBB trades and quotations involve a manual process (over the telephone) rather than automated or electronically linked execution systems, the market information for our common stock cannot be guaranteed. In addition, quote information, or even firm quotes, may not be available. The manual execution process may delay order processing and intervening price fluctuations could result in the failure of a limit order to execute or the execution of a market order at a significantly different price. Execution of trades, execution reporting, and the delivery of trade confirmations may be delayed significantly. Consequently, one may not be able to sell shares of our common stock at the optimum trading prices. ● Liquidity Risks – Liquidity refers to the ability to freely buy and sell securities at given prices and volumes. In general, the more activity in a given security, and the more market makers participating in a security, the greater the liquidity in the security. Because the OTC Bulletin Board generally has fewer market makers participating in a Bulletin Board security, the liquidity in our common stock may be significantly less than what might be experienced in the NASDAQ or listed markets. As such, you may only receive a partial execution or your order may not be executed at all. Additionally, the price received on a market order may be significantly different from the price quoted at the time of order entry. Additionally, when fewer shares of our common stock are being traded, larger spreads between bid and ask prices and volatile swings in price may result. 18 ● Dealer's Spread – The dealer's spread (the difference between the bid and ask prices) of our security may be large and may result in substantial losses to the seller of our common stock on the OTCBB if the common stock must be sold immediately. Further, purchasers of our common stock may incur an immediate "paper" loss due to the price spread. Moreover, dealers trading on the OTCBB may not have a bid price for securities bought and sold through the OTCBB. Due to the foregoing, there may be decreased demand for our common stock traded through the OTCBB. The significant number of options and warrants outstanding may adversely affect the market price for our common stock. As of December 31, 2012, there are outstanding options and warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,832,500 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from $0.21 to $1.60. To the extent that outstanding options and warrants are exercised, existing stockholder percentage ownership will be diluted and any sales in the public market of the common stock underlying such options may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance intellectual property acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing capital stock that would dilute your ownership. Prior to the significant royalty revenue achieved in July 2010 as a result of settlement of our patent litigation agreement with major data networking equipment manufacturers, we had largely financed our operations by issuing equity securities, which, if conducted in the future, would materially reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing common stock. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt or the issuance or sale of other securities or instruments senior to our common shares. The holders of any debt securities or instruments we may issue could have rights superior to the rights of our common stockholders. Future sales of shares of our common stock may cause the prevailing market price of our shares to decline and could harm our ability to raise additional capital. We have previously issued a substantial number of shares of common stock, which are eligible for resale under Rule 144 of Securities Act of 1933, and may become freely tradable. We have also registered a substantial number of shares including shares that are issuable upon the exercise of options and warrants. In addition, if holders of options and warrants choose to exercise their purchase rights and sell shares of common stock in the public market or if holders of currently restricted common stock 19 or registered common stock sell such shares in the public market, or attempt to publicly sell such shares in a short time period, the prevailing market price for our common stock may decline. Such decline in the price of our common stock may also adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Provisions in our corporate charter and in Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, could discourage a takeover and adversely affect existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our Board of Directors, without further action by stockholders, and may include, among other things, voting rights (including the right to vote as a series on particular matters), preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights, and sinking fund provisions, any of which could adversely affect holders of our common stock. Although there are currently no shares of preferred stock outstanding, future holders of preferred stock may have rights superior to our common stock and such rights could also be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell our assets to third parties. We are also subject to the “anti-takeover” provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could prevent us from engaging in a “business combination” with a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired that status unless appropriate board or stockholder approvals are obtained. These provisions could deter unsolicited takeovers or delay or prevent changes in our control or management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price. These provisions may also limit the ability of stockholders to delay, deter or prevent a change of control, or approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interests. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: ● our ability to successfully enforce and/or defend our Remote Power Patent and other patents; ● our ability to continue to receive material revenue from licensees of our Remote Power Patent; ● our ability to enter into favorable license agreements with third parties with respect to our Remote Power Patent; 20 ● our ability to acquire additional intellectual property; ● our ability to achieve material revenue and profits; ● our ability to enter into strategic relationships with third parties to license or otherwise monetize their intellectual property; ● our ability to raise capital when needed; ● sales of our common stock; ● our ability to execute our business plan; ● technology changes; ● legislative, regulatory and competitive developments; and ● economic and other external factors. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 