ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. These risks are not the only ones that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. National, regional and local economic and business conditions that will, among other things, affect: Demand for residential lots, commercial parcels and multifamily housing The real estate industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, availability of financing and interest rate levels as well as other market conditions such as oversupply or reduction in demand for commercial, industrial or multifamily properties. In addition, regulatory changes could possibly alter, among other things, the tax deductibility of interest paid on home loans. Adverse changes in any of these conditions generally, or in the market regions where we operate, could decrease demand for our residential lots, commercial parcels and homes, which could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. The ability of the general economy to recover timely from an economic downturn Although the real estate business historically has been cyclical, it has not undergone an economic down cycle in a number of years. This has led some people to assert that real estate prices may be inflated and may decline if demand weakens. A decline in the prices for real estate could adversely affect our home and land sales revenues and margins. Availability and creditworthiness of tenants We are exposed to customer risk. Our performance depends on our ability to collect rent from our customers. General economic conditions and an increase in unemployment rates could cause the financial condition of a large number of our tenants to deteriorate. While no tenant in our wholly owned portfolio accounted for a significant amount of the annualized rental revenue of these respective properties at December 31, 2005, our financial position may be adversely affected by financial difficulties experienced by our tenants, including bankruptcies, insolvencies or general downturns in business. The availability of financing for both our customers and us Our business and earnings are also substantially dependent on the ability of our customers to finance the purchase of our land or homes. Limitations on the availability of financing or increases in the cost of such financing could adversely affect our operations. Our business and earnings is also substantially dependent on our ability to obtain financing for our development activities as well as refinancing our properties' mortgages. Increases in interest rates, concerns about the market or the economy, or consolidation or dissolution of financial institutions could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain the funds required for our future operations, and limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. Changes in competition, availability of financing, customer trends and market conditions may impact our ability to obtain loans to finance the development of our future communities. Adverse changes in the real estate markets, including, among other things: Competition with other companies We operate in a very competitive environment, which is characterized by competition from a number of other land developers. Actions or changes in plans by competitors may negatively affect us. Risks of real estate acquisition and development (including our ability to obtain governmental approvals for development projects and to complete our current development projects on time and within budget) Our plans for the future development of our residential communities can be affected by a number of factors including time delays in obtaining necessary government permits and approvals and legal challenges to our planned communities. The agreements we execute to acquire properties generally are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations which may be unacceptable; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investments; our estimates of the costs or repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; the development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources. In connection with our development occupancy rates and rents at the newly completed property may not meet the expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. The development of our residential communities may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including weather conditions, work stoppages, labor disputes, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems and unanticipated shortages of or increases in the cost of materials and labor. Any of these circumstances could give rise to delays in the completion of, or increase the cost of, developing one or more of our residential communities. Ability to renew HUD subsidy contracts and availability of federal funds on a timely basis to service these contracts As of December 31, 2005, we owned an equity interest in and managed for third parties and affiliates properties that benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by HUD or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms or rental assistance payments to the property owners. As a condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the properties must comply with various requirements, which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts. If permitted rents on a property are insufficient to cover costs, our cash flow from these properties will be negatively impacted, and our management fees may be reduced or eliminated. Ability to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost We may experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by insurance. We carry insurance coverage on our properties of the type and in amounts that we believe is in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, we cannot guarantee that the limits of our current policies will be sufficient in the event of a catastrophe to our properties. We may suffer losses that are not covered under our comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance policies. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, we could lose capital invested in a property, as well as any future revenue from the property. We would nevertheless remain obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. Environmental and safety requirements Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance wit h fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Ability to retain senior management and key employees We could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. Complexity of Tax Structure The Company's tax structure is complex and requires continual monitoring in order to ensure compliance with certain IRS requirements. Should the Company not meet the requirements of a publicly traded partnership, the Company would be subject to additional tax liability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 