ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion contained in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. The transition of Allegra® to an over-the-counter (“OTC”) product could materially impact royalty revenue. On January 25, 2011, sanofi-aventis and its U.S. Consumer Healthcare Division, Chattem, Inc., announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) approved the Allegra® (fexofenadine HCl) family of allergy medication products for over-the counter (“OTC”) use. The Allegra® family of products became available in the United States without a prescription in March 2011. While we believe that this transition could be positive in the long term, due to our limited knowledge on the process of transition, U.S. Allegra® sales could be negatively impacted by this transition in the short term. If the dollar amount of Allegra® sales subject to our license agreement decreases, due to these or any other factors, our revenues from our license agreement with sanofi-aventis will also decrease. Because we have very few costs associated with the Allegra® license, royalties carry a 90% margin. Therefore, a material decrease in revenues from our license agreement for Allegra® would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, operating income and financial condition. Our Burlington, MA facility is subject to an FDA warning letter which has resulted in a significant disruption in our business operations and has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business operations and cash flow. On August 18, 2010, we received a warning letter from the FDA which pertained to its inspection of AMRI Burlington in March 2010 and which identified three significant observations. According to the warning letter, these observations may have caused our drug product(s) to be adulterated in that the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, their manufacture, processing, packing or holding did not conform to, or were not operated or administered in conformity with cGMP. A copy of the warning letter is available on the FDA website at www.fda.gov. We acquired the facility on June 14, 2010. The warning letter did not restrict production or shipment of products from the facility, although we have suspended cGMP production while we have undertaken remediation steps to address the FDA’s observations. This suspension of production has had a material adverse effect on our business operations and cash flow and will continue to have such effect until we are able to resume cGMP operations at this facility. We have been working to resolve the issues identified in the warning letter. As of February 22, 2011, the Company provided the FDA with its second interim update pertaining to the warning letter. The Company anticipates the FDA will re-inspect the facilities in the near future. There can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with our response or will not identify additional issues on re-inspection. Failure to promptly correct these violations as required by the FDA may result in legal action without further notice including, without limitation, seizure and injunction. Other federal agencies may take the FDA warning letter into account when considering the award of contracts. Additionally, the FDA may withhold approval of requests for export certificate, or approval of pending drug applications listing our Burlington facility until the above violations are corrected. In addition, certain customers who claim to be adversely impacted by the FDA warning letter and our inability to fulfill our contractual commitments may bring legal action against us. Any such actions could significantly disrupt our business and operations and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. 16 We may lose one or more of our major customers. During the year ended December 31, 2010, revenues from our largest customer totaled $27.8 million and represented approximately 17% of our contract revenue, or 14% of our total revenue. Our existing agreement with this customer extends through 2013. If this customer does not renew the agreement there may be a material decrease in our revenues and operating income. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010 sales to another customer totaled $16.1 million and represented approximately 10% of our contract revenue, or 8% of our total revenue. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2010, we provided services to two other major customers representing approximately 12% of our contract revenues or 10% of our total revenue. These customers typically may cancel their contracts with 30 days’ to one-year’s prior notice depending on the size of the contract, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If any one of our major customers cancels its contract with us, our contract revenues may materially decrease. If we fail to meet strict regulatory requirements, we could be required to pay fines or even close our facilities. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture drugs in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the FDA. The FDA conducts unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us or, if the FDA determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of our services. We depend on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that use our services for a large portion of our revenues. Although there has been a trend among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource drug research and development functions, this trend may not continue. We have experienced increasing pressure on the part of our customers to reduce expenses, including the use of our services as a result of negative economic trends generally and more specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. Our organic contract revenues decreased in 2009 and 2010 and we may be adversely affected in future periods as a result of general economic and/or pharmaceutical industry downturns which has resulted in a diminished availability of liquidity in the marketplace. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies discontinue or decrease their usage of our services, including as a result of a slowdown in the overall global economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may continue to decrease or not grow at historical rates. We face increased competition. We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We are also experiencing increased competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. We may be unsuccessful in producing and licensing proprietary technology developed from our internal research and development efforts or acquired from a third party or in our collaborations with a third party. Our objective is to patent our proprietary technologies and license such technologies to other companies for the purpose of advancing compounds associated with these technologies through human clinical trials and ultimately obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of products containing these compounds. We seek to enter into licensing arrangements with selected partners that provide for a combination of up-front license fees, milestone payments upon the achievement of specified research and development objectives, and royalty payments based on sales of related commercial products. 17 We have expended and continue to expend significant time and money on internal research and development with the intention of producing proprietary technologies in order to patent and then license them to other companies. However, we may not be successful in producing any additional valuable technology or successfully licensing it to a third party in the future, including our R&D obesity program that is currently in Phase I clinical trials. To the extent we are unable to produce technology that we can license, we may not receive any revenues related to our internal research and development efforts. Our existing and potential future collaborations with third parties are a significant component of our proprietary research and development business strategy. If there is a delay or failure in our collaboration partner’s performance, our proprietary research and development business may not produce the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate. We cannot control our collaboration partner’s performance or the resources it devotes to our collaborative program. Furthermore, with respect to any drug candidate resulting from our collaborative programs, the FDA may delay or deny marketing approvals because of adverse FDA decisions or interpretations of data that differ from our collaboration partner’s interpretations and that may require additional clinical trials or potential changes in the cost, scope and duration of clinical trials. Even if we succeed in getting market approvals, our collaboration partner may not have the ability to successfully launch, increase sales of or sustain the product or products in the market, or efficiently scale-up manufacturing for commercialized compounds. Disputes may arise between us and our collaboration partner, which may not be resolved in our favor. Further, our collaboration partner could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. The occurrence of any of these could result in our proprietary research and development business not producing the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our continued implementation and operation of information management software and infrastructure. We have implemented a comprehensive enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system to the majority of our locations to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Continuing an uninterrupted performance of our ERP system or other software or hardware is critical to the success of our business strategy. Any material failure of our ERP system or other software or hardware that interrupts or delays our operations could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner and have a material adverse effect on our operations: · report financial results; · accurately reflect inventory costs; · accept and process customer orders; · receive inventory and ship products; · invoice and collect receivables; · place purchase orders and pay invoices; and · accurately reflect all other business transactions related to the finance, order entry, purchasing, supply chain and human resource processes within the ERP system. We may be required to record additional goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit has fallen below its carrying amount. We perform our annual assessment of the carrying value of our goodwill for potential impairment using an independent third-party specialist. A determination of impairment is made based upon the fair value of the related reporting unit. Factors we consider important which could result in a goodwill impairment include the following: · significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; 18 · significant negative industry or economic trends; and · our market capitalization relative to net book value. In addition, we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable based on the existence of certain triggering events. Factors we consider important which could result in a long-lived asset impairment include the following: · a significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used; · a significant change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; and · a significant decrease in the market value of assets. If goodwill or long-lived assets are determined to be impaired in the future we would be required to record a charge to our results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had $16.7 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. During 2010, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $36.8 million in our LSM segment and during 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $22.9 million in our LSM segment, both as a result of our annual goodwill impairment testing, which determined a decline in fair value to below its carrying value. In the second quarter of 2010, we recorded a long-lived asset impairment charges of $4.8 million in our DDS segment. As a result of realigning some of the AMRI U.S. operating activities, the Company evaluated the future economic benefit expected to be generated from the revised operating activities in this facility against the carrying value of the facility’s property and equipment and determined that these assets were impaired. We also recorded a long-lived asset impairment charge of $6.0 million in our LSM segment upon determining that the carrying value of certain assets at our AMRI India location used in the manufacturing of generic products was not recoverable based on projections of future revenues and cash flows expected to be derived from the use of these assets. If any of the factors noted above occur or future annual goodwill impairment tests indicate a further decline in the fair value of our segments, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods. Agreements we have with our employees, customers, consultants and other third parties may not afford adequate protection for our valuable intellectual property, confidential information and other proprietary information. Some of our most valuable assets include patents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our customer’s information, such as trade secrets, proprietary information and other customer confidential information, as well as our own, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques causing some technologies that we develop to be patented by other companies. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit our ability to compete effectively and our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits we expected. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We could incur significant costs defending such claims and if we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, we may be subject to liability for infringement. To the extent that we are unable to protect confidential customer information, we may encounter material harm to our reputation and to our business. 19 Our failure to manage our expansion may adversely affect us. Our business has expanded rapidly in the past several years. Expansion places increased stress on our financial, managerial and human resources. As we expand, we will need to recruit and retain additional highly skilled professionals. Expansion of our facilities may lead to increased expenses and may divert management attention away from operations. We may not be able to realize the benefits of recent acquisitions and strategic investments. In recent years, we have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments. Most recently, in 2010, we completed the acquisitions of AMRI UK, a chemical development and large scale manufacturing business in the United Kingdom and AMRI Burlington, a formulation facility located in Burlington, Massachusetts. These acquisitions may not be as beneficial to us as we currently expect or as expected at the time of acquisition. For example, due to a significant decrease in demand from a key customer at AMRI UK, and the issuance of the FDA warning letter to our AMRI Burlington location, we were required to record goodwill impairment charges at these locations in 2010. With regards to our strategic equity investments, we record an impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions, poor operating results of underlying investments or the investees’ inability to obtain additional financing could result in our inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring an impairment charge in the future. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business and distract our management. We have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments and we currently expect to continue to do so. However, we may not be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner or at all. We may have to devote a significant amount of time and resources to do so. Even with this investment of time and resources, an acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate. If we fail to integrate the acquired business effectively or if key employees of that business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. The time, capital, management and other resources spent on an acquisition that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions can involve charges of significant amounts related to goodwill and long –lived assets that could become impaired and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. We established contract research facilities in Singapore and Hyderabad, India in 2005, and have continued to expand our facilities in India in 2006, 2007 and 2008. In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of AMRI Hungary, a privately held drug discovery service company in Budapest, Hungary. In June 2007, we acquired AMRI India and in January 2008, we acquired FineKem, which is now a part of AMRI India. In February 2010, we acquired AMRI UK, a chemical development and large scale manufacturing business in the United Kingdom. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate, or we may be subject to fines or other regulatory actions if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees we need. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the research and efforts of our highly skilled employees, such as our scientists, and their ability to keep pace with changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical firms, biotechnology firms, contract research firms, and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. If we cannot recruit and retain scientists and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to continue our existing services and will not be able to expand the services we offer to our customers. We may lose one or more of our key employees. Our business is highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, including: · Dr. Thomas E. D’Ambra, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; 20 · Mark T. Frost, our Senior Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; · Dr. Steven R. Hagen, our Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing; · Lori M. Henderson, our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary · Brian D. Russell, our Vice President, Human Resources; and · Dr. Bruce J. Sargent, our Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery; The loss of any of our key employees, including our scientists, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be held liable for harm caused by drugs that we develop and test. We develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. If any of the drugs that we develop, test or manufacture harm people, we may be required to pay damages to those persons. Although we carry liability insurance, we may be required to pay damages in excess of the amounts of our insurance coverage. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our manufacturing and research and development processes involve the use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and substances. We are subject to Federal, state and local laws and regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of such materials, including but not limited to radioactive compounds and certain waste products. Additionally, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and emissions and wastewater discharges. Although we believe that our activities currently comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from these materials. We may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative actions, therefore we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these actions could restrict our operations in the future. Such expenses, liabilities or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We completed an environmental remediation assessment associated with groundwater contamination at our Rensselaer, New York location. This contamination is associated with past practices at the facility prior to 1990, and prior to our investment or ownership of the facility. Ongoing costs associated with the remediation include biannual monitoring and reporting to the State of New York’s Department of Environmental Conservation. Under the remediation plan, we are expected to pay for monitoring and reporting until 2014. Under a 1999 agreement with the facility’s previous owner, our maximum liability under the remediation is $5.5 million. If the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. We depend on our laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development operations and all administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in Albany and Rensselaer, New York. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event at any of our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. 21 Domestic policy changes, including income tax and health care reform could reduce the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell, including some of our potential products, which in turn, could reduce the amounts that they have available to retain our services. We depend on contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a majority of our revenues. We therefore depend upon the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to earn enough profit on the drugs they market to devote substantial resources to the research and development of new drugs. Additionally, we rely on our collaborative partners to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our current and potential future products. Continued efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means, could affect our levels of revenues and earnings. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to governmental control. Domestically, there have been and may continue to be proposals to implement similar governmental control. Future legislation may limit the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for the drugs they market and cost control initiatives could affect the amounts that third-party payors agree to reimburse for those drugs. There is no assurance that our collaborative partners will be able to obtain acceptable prices for our products which would allow us to sell these products on a competitive and profitable basis. As a result, such laws and initiatives may have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to the research and development of new drugs. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the amount of services that we perform, and therefore our revenues, could be reduced. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in every shareholder’s best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: · Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire. · Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of us is made in the future. Under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan, the Board can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Once a shareholder acquires more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock without Board approval (the “acquiring person”), all other shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price less than their then fair market value. These subsequent purchases by other shareholders substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of Common Stock owned by the acquiring person. Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests as shareholders may differ from our other shareholders. At February 28, 2011, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 15.7% of our outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 22 Our stock price is volatile and could experience substantial further declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the global economic and potential uncertainty have created significant additional volatility in the United States capital markets. This volatility and the recent market decline has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance or their business prospects, and has adversely affected and may further affect the price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of our shareholders’ investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. If we fail to meet our credit facility’s financial covenants, our business and financial conditions could be adversely affected. We currently have a revolving line of credit in the amount of $45 million which has a maturity date of June 2013. The credit facility contains certain financial covenants, including but not limited to, a maximum leverage ratio, a minimum required operating cash flow coverage ratio, a minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and a minimum current ratio. As of December 31, 2010 our balance outstanding on the line of credit was $9.7 million and $2.6 million outstanding in letters of credit. As of December 31, 2010 we were not in compliance with the current financial covenant requirements, however, we received a waiver from our lenders through April 15, 2011 while we renegotiate our agreement. The Company intends to amend its existing credit facility to provide for a revolving line of credit that will mature in 2012, and to refinance amounts outstanding under the current line of credit into a term loan with quarterly repayments through 2017. There is no assurance that we will continue to be in compliance with all of the covenants, or that we will be able to renegotiate our credit agreement with our lenders. If at any point, we fail to meet our credit facility’s financial covenants, the lenders can demand immediate repayment of our outstanding balance and deny future borrowings under the remaining line of credit. This could have a negative impact on our liquidity, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes. We may experience disruptions in or the inability to source raw materials to support our production processes or to deliver goods to our customers. We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals. We generally use raw materials available from more than one source. We could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice, which could lead to raw materials being purchased on less favorable terms than we have with our regular supplier. Additionally, we rely on various third-party delivery services to transport both goods from our vendors and finished products to our customers. A disruption in our ability to source or transport materials could delay or halt production and delivery of certain of our products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete. We may experience significant increases in operational costs beyond our control. Costs for certain items which are needed to run our business, such as energy and certain materials, have the potential to fluctuate. As these cost increases are often dependent on market conditions, and although we do our best to manage these price increases, we may experience increases in our costs due to the volatility of prices and market conditions. Increases in these costs could negatively impact our results of operations. 23 Delays in, or failure of, the approval of our customers’ regulatory submissions could impact our revenue and earnings. The successful transition of clinical and preclinical candidates into long term commercial supply agreements is a key component of the LSM business strategy. If our customers do not receive approval of their regulatory submissions, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings. We may be subject to foreign currency risks. Our global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors. If we fail to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of our foreign currency risks, please see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 