ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion contained in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. Failure to manage the business to profitability without Allegra royalties will have a significant impact on operations and stock value. The recurring royalties we receive on the sales of Allegra/Telfast have historically provided a material portion of our revenue, earnings and operating cash flows. We continue to develop our business and manage our operating costs in order to be in a position to maintain a business that can operate profitably as these royalties begin to diminish in 2014 and 2015. Recurring royalties have a significantly higher gross and operating margin than do our other business activities, resulting in the need to replace a significant amount of margin in order to achieve such profitability. The Company has taken certain cost cutting steps during 2011 and has certain additional steps planned for 2012 in order to right size the business operations to support the profitability that is achievable from our core contract research and manufacturing businesses. In the future, we may need to take additional cost cutting measures if our revenues do not increase or are not profitable enough to support our operations. In addition, if we are not able to increase operating revenue and decrease operating costs in order to replace the Allegra royalty income, there will be a material and adverse impact on our business, including negative impacts on our operating cash flow, access to capital and ability to spend on required capital improvements to our facilities. Our Burlington, MA facility is subject to an FDA warning letter which has resulted in a significant disruption in our business operations and has had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business operations and cash flow. On August 18, 2010, we received a warning letter from the FDA which pertained to its inspection of AMRI Burlington in March 2010 and which identified three significant observations. According to the warning letter, these observations may have caused our drug product(s) to be adulterated in that the methods used in, or the facilities or controls used for, their manufacture, processing, packing or holding did not conform to, or were not operated or administered in conformity with cGMP. A copy of the warning letter is available on the FDA website at www.fda.gov. We acquired the facility on June 14, 2010. The warning letter did not restrict production or shipment of products from the facility, however we voluntarily suspended cGMP production for a period of time while we undertook remediation steps to address the FDA’s observations. Although we resumed cGMP operations in May 2011, the suspension of production has had a material adverse effect on our business operations and cash flow. We have been working to resolve the issues identified in the warning letter. In May, 2011, the Company provided the FDA with its final update pertaining to the warning letter. From June 8, 2011 through June 28, 2011, the FDA conducted a re-inspection of the Company’s Burlington facility. On June 28, 2011, the FDA issued a Form 483 report to the Company which included 7 inspectional observations. The Company provided a response to the FDA’s Form 483 report on July 20, 2011. On September 13, 2011, the Company received a letter from the FDA regarding the Company’s response stating that corrective actions proposed by the Company, once fully implemented, should adequately address the observations made by the FDA investigators. The letter also indicated that the Company’s corrective actions will be verified by the FDA at the next facility inspection. The Company believes the corrective actions have now been fully implemented. The Company will continue the manufacturing operations currently ongoing at the Burlington site, including GMP operations. There can be no assurance that the FDA will be satisfied with our response or will not identify additional issues on re-inspection. Failure to promptly correct these violations as required by the FDA may result in legal action without further notice including, without limitation, seizure and injunction. Other federal agencies may take the FDA warning letter into account when considering the award of contracts. Additionally, the FDA may withhold approval of requests for export certificate, or approval of pending drug applications listing our Burlington facility until the above violations are corrected. In addition, certain 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS customers who claim to be adversely impacted by the FDA warning letter and our inability to fulfill our contractual commitments may bring legal action against us. Any such actions could significantly disrupt our business and operations and have a material adverse impact on our financial position and operating results. If we fail to meet our current credit facility’s financial covenants, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully negotiate a new credit agreement as required by the terms of the current credit agreement, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. During 2011 we did not meet certain of the obligations under our line of credit agreement with a bank group led by Bank of America. In June 2011, we finalized the renegotiation of such credit agreement which included repayment of $2.7 million of the outstanding line of credit. The remaining $7.0 million of the outstanding line of credit was converted into a term loan with a maturity date of June 2012 with quarterly repayments of $0.4 million and the line of credit currently secures $6.8 million of letters of credit outstanding to certain of the Company’s business partners. Additionally, in connection with our June 2011 agreement, we provided security to the bank group in the form of a security interest in substantially all of our United States assets and certain other collateral. We did not meet all of our obligations under the June 2011 debt agreement, which led to further re-negotiation of this line of credit with the Bank group. On December 1, 2011 we finalized a waiver and amendment which increased the effective interest rate, limited any further borrowings, required that we diligently seek refinancing of this debt agreement with a commitment for such to be obtained by March 31, 2012 and required the further repayment of $3.0 million in December 2011 and another $0.8 million of such obligations in early 2012. In addition, certain of the restrictive covenants were revised and as of such date the Company is only required to comply with certain cash maintenance requirements and to limit its capital expenditures. Covenants related to maintaining earnings levels were removed in the December 2011 amendment. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $2.6 million of term debt and $6.8 million of outstanding letters of credit secured by the line of credit. In addition, we maintain an additional credit facility with one bank that secures an individual letter of credit in an amount of approximately $3.0 million, which is cross defaulted to the primary line of credit. In the event that we do not meet the covenants set forth in the December 2011 amendment to the credit agreement, there is no assurance that we will receive further waivers of covenant noncompliance from the lenders. If at any point, we fail to meet our credit facility’s financial or other covenants, the lenders can demand immediate repayment of our outstanding balance. This could have a negative impact on our liquidity, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes. Based on the terms of the December 2011 amendment, we are not able to borrow further amounts under either the term loan or the line of credit. In the event that the bank group demanded immediate repayment of the term debt and cash collateralization of the letters of credit, the Company would require additional financing in order to operate its ongoing business. The Company believes that such financing could be obtained from a variety of sources including borrowing from another lending institution; sale or securitization of assets; or sales by the Company of equity or debt securities, however the cost of obtaining any such financing is likely to be greater than the current interest rate paid under the December 2011 amendment. We are in the process of negotiating a 4-year credit agreement with a new bank which would serve to replace the current line of credit. While negotiations are proceeding in a positive manner, there is no assurance that we will be able to close this transaction on mutually acceptable terms. We expect that the new agreement will have covenants that require the Company to maintain minimum levels of cash, limit capital expenditures to historical amounts and require the Company to achieve a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio. In the event that the Company is not able to finalize such new agreement, or if we fail to meet the terms of the new agreement, there could be a material and adverse effect on our business and operations. We may experience disruptions in or the inability to source raw materials to support our production processes or to deliver goods to our customers. We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals. We generally use raw materials available from more than one source. We could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice, which could lead to raw materials being purchased on less favorable terms than we have with our regular supplier. Additionally, we rely on various third-party delivery services to transport both goods from our vendors and finished products to our customers. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS A disruption in our ability to source or transport materials could delay or halt production and delivery of certain of our products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete. Our sales forecast and/or revenue projections may not be accurate. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of proposals, including the date when they estimate a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential size of the order. We aggregate these estimates on a quarterly basis in order to generate a sales pipeline. While the pipeline process provides us with some guidance in business planning and forecasting, it is based on estimates only and is therefore subject to risks and uncertainties. Any variation in the conversion of the pipeline into revenue or the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly plan or budget and thereby adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may lose one or more of our major customers. During the year ended December 31, 2011, revenues from our largest customer represented approximately 16% of our contract revenue, or 13% of our total revenue. Our existing agreement with this customer extends through 2013. If this customer does not renew the agreement there may be a material decrease in our revenues and operating income. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011 sales to another customer represented approximately 9% of our contract revenue, or 7% of our total revenue. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, we provided services to two other major customers representing approximately 13% of our contract revenues or 10% of our total revenue. These customers typically may cancel their contracts with 30 days’ to one-year’s prior notice, depending on the size of the contract, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If any one of our major customers cancels its contract with us, our contract revenues may materially decrease. If we fail to meet strict regulatory requirements, we could be required to pay fines or even close our facilities. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture drugs in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the FDA. The FDA conducts unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us or, if the FDA determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of our services. We depend on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that use our services for a large portion of our revenues. Although there has been a trend among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource drug research and development functions, this trend may not continue. We have experienced increasing pressure on the part of our customers to reduce expenses, including the use of our services as a result of negative economic trends generally and more specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. We may be adversely affected in future periods as a result of general economic and/or pharmaceutical industry downturns which has resulted in a diminished availability of liquidity in the marketplace. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies discontinue or decrease their usage of our services, including as a result of a slowdown in the overall global economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may decrease or not grow at historical rates. We face increased competition. We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We also experience significant competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures, primarily those in China and other Asian countries. While we operate in certain lower relative cost jurisdictions, such as India and Singapore, we do not have operations in China. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. We may be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges. We review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable based on the existence of certain triggering events. Factors we consider important which could result in a long-lived asset impairment include the following: • a significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used; • a significant change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; and • a significant decrease in the market value of assets. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $4.7 million in our DDS segment associated with the Company’s decision to terminate its lease and exit one of its U.S. facilities as part of the overall initiative to reduce the Company’s workforce, right size capacity, and reduce operating costs. In 2010, we recorded long-lived asset impairment charges of $4.8 million in our DDS segment. As a result of realigning some of the AMRI U.S. operating activities, the Company evaluated the future economic benefit expected to be generated from the revised operating activities in this facility against the carrying value of the facility’s property and equipment and determined that these assets were impaired. We also recorded a long-lived asset impairment charge of $6.0 million in our LSM segment upon determining that the carrying value of certain assets at our AMRI India location used in the manufacturing of generic products was not recoverable based on projections of future revenues and cash flows expected to be derived from the use of these assets. If long-lived assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we would be required to record a charge to our results of operations. Agreements we have with our employees, customers, consultants and other third parties may not afford adequate protection for our valuable intellectual property, confidential information and other proprietary information. Some of our most valuable assets include patents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our customer’s information, such as trade secrets, proprietary information and other customer confidential information, as well as our own, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques causing some technologies that we develop to be patented by other companies. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit our ability to compete effectively and our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits we expected. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We could incur significant costs defending such claims and if we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, we may be subject to liability for infringement. To the extent that we are unable to protect confidential customer information, we may encounter material harm to our reputation and to our business. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Recent acquisitions and strategic investments have taken longer than expected to achieve profitability. In recent years, we have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments. We have established contract research facilities in several international locations worldwide and have expanded certain of these facilities. Most recently, in 2010, we completed the acquisitions of AMRI UK, a chemical development and large scale manufacturing business in the United Kingdom, and AMRI Burlington, a formulation facility located in Burlington, Massachusetts. These acquisitions have not achieved profitability and each such acquisition has required further investment in order to provide a more stable operating platform for the future. In particular, due to a significant decrease in demand from a key customer at AMRI UK, and the issuance of the FDA warning letter to our AMRI Burlington location, we were required to record goodwill impairment charges at these locations in 2010. The overall economic slowdown in our key markets has also delayed the effective utilization of these acquired facilities. We expect that we will be required to make further investments in these acquired companies as we drive toward profitability and this may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate, or we may be subject to fines or other regulatory actions if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees we need. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the research and efforts of our highly skilled employees, such as our scientists, and their ability to keep pace with changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical firms, biotechnology firms, contract research firms, and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. If we cannot recruit and retain scientists and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to continue our existing services and will not be able to expand the services we offer to our customers. We may lose one or more of our key employees. Our business is highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, including: • Dr. Thomas E. D’Ambra, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; • Mark T. Frost, our Senior Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; • Dr. Steven R. Hagen, our Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing; • Lori M. Henderson, our Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary • Brian D. Russell, our Vice President, Human Resources; and • Dr. Bruce J. Sargent, our Senior Vice President, Drug Discovery; The loss of any of our key employees, including our scientists, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be held liable for harm caused by drugs that we develop and test. We develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. If any of the drugs that we develop, test or manufacture harm people, we may be required to pay damages to those persons. Although we carry liability insurance, we may be required to pay damages in excess of the amounts of our insurance coverage. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our manufacturing and research and development processes involve the use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and substances. We are subject to Federal, state and local laws and regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of such materials, including but not limited to radioactive compounds and certain waste products. Additionally, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and emissions and wastewater discharges. Although we believe that our activities currently comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from these materials. We may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative actions, therefore we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these actions could restrict our operations in the future. Such expenses, liabilities or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We completed an environmental remediation assessment associated with groundwater contamination at our Rensselaer, New York location. This contamination is associated with past practices at the facility prior to 1990, and prior to our investment or ownership of the facility. Ongoing costs associated with the remediation include biannual monitoring and reporting to the State of New York’s Department of Environmental Conservation. Under the remediation plan, we are expected to pay for monitoring and reporting until 2014. Under a 1999 agreement with the facility’s previous owner, our maximum liability under the remediation is $5.5 million. If the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. We depend on our laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development operations and all administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in Albany and Rensselaer, New York. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event at any of our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Domestic policy changes, including income tax and health care reform could reduce the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell, including some of our potential products, which in turn, could reduce the amounts that they have available to retain our services. We depend on contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a majority of our revenues. We therefore depend upon the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to earn enough profit on the drugs they market to devote substantial resources to the research and development of new drugs. Additionally, we rely on our collaborative partners to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our current and potential future products. Continued efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means, could affect our levels of revenues and earnings. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to governmental control. Domestically, there have been and may continue to be proposals to implement similar governmental control. Future legislation may limit the prices pharmaceutical and 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS biotechnology companies can charge for the drugs they market and cost control initiatives could affect the amounts that third-party payors agree to reimburse for those drugs. There is no assurance that our collaborative partners will be able to obtain acceptable prices for our products which would allow us to sell these products on a competitive and profitable basis. As a result, such laws and initiatives may have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to the research and development of new drugs. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the amount of services that we perform, and therefore our revenues, could be reduced. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in every shareholder’s best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: • Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire. • Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of us is made in the future. Under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan, the Board can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Once a shareholder acquires more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock without Board approval (the “acquiring person”), all other shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price less than their then fair market value. These subsequent purchases by other shareholders substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of Common Stock owned by the acquiring person. Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests as shareholders may differ from our other shareholders. At February 29, 2012, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 16.0% of our outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and could experience substantial further declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the global economic and potential uncertainty have created significant additional volatility in the United States capital markets. This volatility and the recent market decline has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance or their business prospects, and has adversely affected and may further affect the price of our common stock. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of our shareholders’ investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. We may experience significant increases in operational costs beyond our control. Costs for certain items which are needed to run our business, such as energy and certain materials, have the potential to fluctuate. As these cost increases are often dependent on market conditions, and although we do our best to manage these price increases, we may experience increases in our costs due to the volatility of prices and market conditions. Increases in these costs could negatively impact our results of operations. Delays in, or failure of, the approval of our customers’ regulatory submissions could impact our revenue and earnings. The successful transition of clinical and preclinical candidates into long term commercial supply agreements is a key component of the LSM business strategy. If our customers do not receive approval of their regulatory submissions, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our continued implementation and operation of information management software and infrastructure. We have implemented a comprehensive enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system to the majority of our locations to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Continuing an uninterrupted performance of our ERP system or other software or hardware is critical to the success of our business strategy. Any material failure of our ERP system or other software or hardware that interrupts or delays our operations could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner and have a material adverse effect on our operations: • report financial results; • accurately reflect inventory costs; • accept and process customer orders; • receive inventory and ship products; • invoice and collect receivables; • place purchase orders and pay invoices; and • accurately reflect all other business transactions related to the finance, order entry, purchasing, supply chain and human resource processes within the ERP system. We are subject to foreign currency risks. Our global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors. If we fail to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of our foreign currency risks, please see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business. A greater portion of our overall revenue is derived either from governmental sources directly, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) or clients at academic institutions, corporations and research laboratories whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources, such as BARDA and similar domestic and international agencies. These direct and indirect sources of government funding can be difficult to forecast. Government funding of research and development is subject 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS to the political process, which is inherently unpredictable. Our revenue may be adversely affected if our clients delay entering into contracts for our services as a result of uncertainties surrounding the approval of government budget proposals. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results and there is no guarantee that NIH funding will be directed towards projects and studies that require use of our services. In addition, as we begin to do more business directly with the US government and its various agencies, we have become subject to many additional regulatory requirements with respect to billing, collections, record-keeping, security and other matters which have required us to devote resources to these efforts. While we use our best commercial efforts to comply with these additional regulatory requirements any failure to comply could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain revenue from governmental sources or subject us to penalties or fines. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 