ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion contained in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. The introduction of a generic Allegra®D could further erode our royalty revenue. Royalties from sales of Allegra® currently constitute a significant portion of our revenue, operating income and operating cash flow. In 2005, the Company began to experience a decrease in our royalties from Allegra®, which is primarily attributable to the at-risk launch of generic fexofenadine announced by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. on September 6, 2005. The launch of the generic product was considered an “at-risk” launch due to on-going patent infringement litigations. On November 18, 2008, the Company reached a settlement regarding the patent infringement litigations relating to Teva Pharmaceuticals and Barr Laboratories. Subsequently, Teva Pharmaceutivals acquired Barr Labroatoties. As part of the settlement, the Company entered into an amendment to its licensing agreement with sanofi-aventis to allow sanofi-aventis to sublicense patents related to Allegra® and Allegra® D-12 to Teva Pharmaceuticals in the United States. Sanofi-aventis will pay royalties to the Company on the sale of products in the United States containing fexofenadine hydrochloride (the generic name for the active ingredient in Allegra®) and products containing fexofenadine hydrochloride and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride (generic Allegra® D-12) by Teva Pharmaceuticals through 2015, along with additional consideration. As provided in the settlement, Teva Pharmaceuticals launched a generic version of Allegra®D-12 in November 2009. The Company will receive quarterly royalties through July 2010 for the branded Allegra®D-12 equal to the royalties paid for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. Thereafter, the royalty rate will revert to the rate in effect prior to the signing of the sub-license amendment and the Company will also receive a royalty on Teva’s sales of the generic D-12. Once the royalty rate reverts back to the rate in effect prior to the amendment, royalty revenue could be negatively impacted. Continued generic Allegra® competition, including the at-risk launch of Allegra®D, may further adversely affect U.S. sales of Allegra®. We have been issued several patents on a pure form of, and a manufacturing process for, fexofenadine HCl. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical and biotechnology firms can be uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. Litigation, in particular patent litigation, can be complex and time-consuming and the outcome is inherently uncertain. We cannot assure our stockholders that we and/or sanofi-aventis will ultimately succeed in any current or future litigation against generic drug manufacturers involving patents with respect to Allegra®. In the event that one or more of the patents owned by us or sanofi-aventis are ultimately determined to be invalid or unenforceable, sanofi-aventis and we would lose exclusivity with respect to the claims covered by those patents. Any such loss of exclusivity or the introduction of generic forms of fexofenadine HCl may cause a reduction in Allegra® sales. In addition, under our current arrangements with sanofi-aventis, sanofi-aventis, with consultation from us, has the right to lead with respect to preparing and executing a strategy to defend and enforce certain of the patents relating to Allegra®, and is executing that role in the current litigation. As a result, we may not be able to control the conduct of such litigation and the strategic decisions that are made during the course of such litigation. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” The transition of Allegra® to an over-the-counter (“OTC”) product could materially impact royalty revenue. In December 2009, sanofi-aventis announced the acquisition of Chattem, Inc., an entity that specializes in OTC transitions. In conjunction with that acquisition sanovi-aventis also announced their intention to transition Allegra® to an OTC product in the U.S. While we believe that this transition could be positive in the long term, due to our limited knowledge on the process of transition, U.S. Allegra® sales could be negatively impacted by this transition in the short term. If the dollar amount of Allegra® sales subject to our license agreement decreases, due to these or any other factors, our revenues from our license agreement with sanofi-aventis will also decrease. Because we have very few costs associated with the Allegra® license, royalties carry a 90% margin. Therefore, a decrease in revenues from our license agreement for Allegra® would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, operating income and financial condition. 16 Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of our services. We depend on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that use our services for a large portion of our revenues. Although there has been a trend among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource drug research and development functions, this trend may not continue. We have experienced increasing pressure on the part of our customers to reduce expenses, including the use of our services as a result of negative economic trends generally and more specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. Our contract revenues decreased in 2009 and we may be adversely affected in future periods as a result of general economic and/or pharmaceutical industry downturns which has resulted in a diminished availability of liquidity in the marketplace. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies discontinue or decrease their usage of our services, including as a result of a slowdown in the overall global economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may continue to decrease or not grow at historical rates. We may lose one or more of our major customers. During the year-ended December 31, 2009, revenues from sales of raw material to GE Healthcare for use in one of its diagnostic imaging agents totaled $21.8 million and represented approximately 14% of our contract revenue, or 11% of our total revenue. In January 2009, we entered into an amendment to an existing agreement with GE Healthcare, which extends the expiration date of the agreement to 2013. Additionally, in order to maintain our sales to GE Healthcare, we have agreed to price concessions which have and will continue to impact our margins. GE Healthcare’s purchases had historically exceeded the contractual minimum purchases, however, due to their inventory reduction efforts in 2009, they did not meet these purchase requirements. If GE Healthcare continues to materially reduce its purchase levels or attempts to renegotiate prices, there may be a material decrease in our revenues and operating income. In addition, during the year-ended December 31, 2009 sales to another customer of ours totaled $18.6 million and represented approximately 12% of our contract revenue, or 9% of our total revenue. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2009, we provided services to two other major customers representing approximately 14% of our contract revenues or 11% of our total revenue. These customers typically may cancel their contracts with 30 days’ to one-year’s prior notice depending on the size of the contract, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If any one of our major customers cancels its contract with us, our contract revenues may materially decrease. We face increased competition. We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as combinatorial chemistry companies, contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We are also experiencing increased competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. We may be unsuccessful in producing and licensing proprietary technology developed from our internal research and development efforts or acquired from a third party. We have expended and continue to expend significant time and money on internal research and development with the intention of producing proprietary technologies in order to patent and then license them to other companies. For example, in October 2005 we licensed our proprietary amine neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitor technology to BMS. However, we may not be successful in producing any additional valuable technology or successfully licensing it to a third party in the future, including our lead R&D oncology program that is currently in Phase I clinical trials. To the extent we are unable to produce technology that we can license, we may not receive any revenues related to our internal research and development efforts. We may be unsuccessful in our collaboration with BMS. Our objective is to patent our proprietary technologies and license such technologies to other companies for the purpose of advancing compounds associated with these technologies through human clinical trials and ultimately obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of products containing these compounds. We seek to enter into licensing arrangements with selected partners that provide for a combination of up-front license fees, milestone payments upon the achievement of specified research and development objectives, and royalty payments based on sales of related commercial products. 17 In October 2005, we licensed the worldwide rights to develop and commercialize potential products from our amine neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitors to BMS. In conjunction with the licensing agreement, we received a non-refundable, non-creditable up-front fee of $8.0 million. In addition, BMS purchased approximately $10.0 million in research and development services over the initial three year term of our agreement. The license agreement also sets forth development related milestone events that, if achieved by our products, would entitle us to non-refundable, non-creditable milestone payments of up to $66.0 million for each of the first and second products to achieve these events, and up to $22.0 million for each subsequent product to achieve these events. The license agreement also provides for us to receive royalty payments on worldwide sales of any such product that is commercialized. To date, we recognized approximately $11.8 million of milestone revenue in conjunction with this agreement. Our arrangement with BMS is a significant component of our proprietary research and development business. If there is a delay or failure in BMS’s performance, our proprietary research and development business may not produce the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate. We cannot control BMS’s performance or the resources it devotes to our collaborative program. BMS elected not to utilize our contract research services for this collaboration upon completing the initial term required under the agreement. In addition, we cannot guarantee BMS’s continued pursuit of programs covered by our agreement. Furthermore, with respect to any drug candidate resulting from our collaborative program, the FDA may delay or deny marketing approvals because of adverse FDA decisions or interpretations of data that differ from BMS’s interpretations and that may require additional clinical trials or potential changes in the cost, scope and duration of clinical trials. Even if we succeed in getting market approvals, BMS may not have the ability to successfully launch, increase sales of or sustain the product or products in the market, or efficiently scale-up manufacturing for commercialized compounds. Disputes may arise between us and BMS, which may not be resolved in our favor. Further, BMS could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. The occurrence of any of these could result in our proprietary research and development business not producing the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our continued implementation and operation of information management software and infrastructure. We have implemented a comprehensive enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system to the majority of our locations to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Continuing an uninterrupted performance of our ERP system or other software or hardware is critical to the success of our business strategy. Any material failure of our ERP system or other software or hardware that interrupts or delays our operations could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner and have a material adverse effect on our operations: · report financial results; · accurately reflect inventory costs; · accept and process customer orders; · receive inventory and ship products; · invoice and collect receivables; · place purchase orders and pay invoices; and · accurately reflect all other business transactions related to the finance, order entry, purchasing, supply chain and human resource processes within the ERP system. We may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances make it more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit has fallen below its carrying amount. We perform our annual assessment of the carrying value of our goodwill for potential impairment using an independent third-party specialist. A determination of impairment is made based upon the fair value of the related reporting unit. If goodwill is determined to be impaired in the future we would be required to record a charge to our results of operations. Factors we consider important which could result in an impairment include the following: · significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; · significant negative industry or economic trends; and · our market capitalization relative to net book value. 18 As of December 31, 2009, we had $17.6 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. During 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $22.9 million in our LSM segment as a result of our annual goodwill impairment testing, which determined a decline in fair value to below its carrying value. If any of the factors noted above occur or future annual goodwill impairment tests indicate a further decline in the fair value of our segments, we may be required to record additional goodwill impairment charges in future periods. Agreements we have with our employees, customers, consultants and other third parties may not afford adequate protection for our valuable intellectual property, confidential information and other proprietary information. Some of our most valuable assets include patents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our customer’s information, such as trade secrets, proprietary information and other customer confidential information, as well as our own, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques causing some technologies that we develop to be patented by other companies. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit our ability to compete effectively and our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits we expected. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We could incur significant costs defending such claims and if we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, we may be subject to liability for infringement. To the extent that we are unable to protect confidential customer information, we may encounter material harm to our reputation and to our business. Our failure to manage our expansion may adversely affect us. Our business has expanded rapidly in the past several years. Expansion places increased stress on our financial, managerial and human resources. As we expand, we will need to recruit and retain additional highly skilled professionals. Expansion of our facilities may lead to increased expenses and may divert management attention away from operations. We may not be able to realize the benefits of recent acquisitions and strategic investments. In recent years, we have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments. Most recently, in February 2010, we completed the acquisition of Excelsyn Ltd, a chemical development and large scale manufacturing business in the United Kingdom. These acquisitions may not be as beneficial to us as we currently expect or as expected at the time of acquisition. With regards to our strategic equity investments, we record an impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions, poor operating results of underlying investments or the investees’ inability to obtain additional financing could result in our inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring an impairment charge in the future. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business and distract our management. We have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments and we currently expect to continue to do so. However, we may not be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner or at all. We may have to devote a significant amount of time and resources to do so. Even with this investment of time and resources, an acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate. If we fail to integrate the acquired business effectively or if key employees of that business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. The time, capital, management and other resources spent on an acquisition that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions can involve charges of significant amounts related to goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect our results of operations. 19 We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. We established contract research facilities in Singapore and Hyderabad, India in 2005, and have continued to expand our facilities in India in 2006, 2007 and 2008. In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of ComGenex, a privately held drug discovery service company in Budapest, Hungary. In June 2007, we acquired AMRI India and in January 2008, we acquired FineKem, which is now a part of AMRI India. In February 2010, we acquired Excelsyn Ltd, a chemical development and large scale manufacturing business in the United Kingdom. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate which could have a material adverse affect on our business. We may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees we need. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the research and efforts of our highly skilled employees, such as our scientists, and their ability to keep pace with changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical firms, biotechnology firms, contract research firms, and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. If we cannot recruit and retain scientists and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to continue our existing services and will not be able to expand the services we offer to our customers. We may lose one or more of our key employees. Our business is highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, including: · Dr. Thomas E. D’Ambra, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; · Mark T. Frost, our Senior Vice President, Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; · Dr. Steven R. Hagen, our Vice President, Pharmaceutical Development and Manufacturing; · William Steven Jennings, our Senior Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Business Development; · Brian D. Russell, our Vice President, Human Resources; · Dr. Bruce J. Sargent, our Vice President, Discovery Research and Development; and · Dr. Michael P. Trova, our Senior Vice President, Chemistry. The loss of any of our key employees, including our scientists, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be held liable for harm caused by drugs that we develop and test. We develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. If any of the drugs that we develop, test or manufacture harm people, we may be required to pay damages to those persons. Although we carry liability insurance, we may be required to pay damages in excess of the amounts of our insurance coverage. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our manufacturing and research and development processes involve the use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and substances. We are subject to Federal, state and local laws and regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of such materials, including but not limited to radioactive compounds and certain waste products. Additionally, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and emissions and wastewater discharges. Although we believe that our activities currently comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from these materials. We may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative actions, therefore we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these actions could restrict our operations in the future. Such expenses, liabilities or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. 20 We completed an environmental remediation assessment associated with groundwater contamination at our Rensselaer, New York location. This contamination is associated with past practices at the facility prior to 1990, and prior to our investment or ownership of the facility. Ongoing costs associated with the remediation include biannual monitoring and reporting to the State of New York’s Department of Environmental Conservation. Under the remediation plan, we are expected to pay for monitoring and reporting until 2014. Under a 1999 agreement with the facility’s previous owner, our maximum liability under the remediation is $5.5 million. If the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we fail to meet strict regulatory requirements, we could be required to pay fines or even close our facilities. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture drugs in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the FDA. The FDA conducts unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us or, if the FDA determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by the FDA could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. We depend on our laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development operations and all administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in Albany and Rensselaer, New York. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event at any of our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Domestic policy changes, including income tax and health care reform could reduce the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell, including some of our potential products, which in turn, could reduce the amounts that they have available to retain our services. We depend on contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a majority of our revenues. We therefore depend upon the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to earn enough profit on the drugs they market to devote substantial resources to the research and development of new drugs. Additionally, we rely on our collaborative partners to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our current and potential future products. Continued efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of heath care through various means, could affect our levels of revenues and earnings. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to governmental control. Domestically, there have been and may continue to be proposals to implement similar governmental control. Future legislation may limit the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for the drugs they market and cost control initiatives could affect the amounts that third-party payors agree to reimburse for those drugs. We cannot assure that our collaborative partners will be able to obtain acceptable prices for our products which would allow us to sell these products on a competitive and profitable basis. As a result, such laws and initiatives may have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to the research and development of new drugs. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the amount of services that we perform, and therefore our revenues, could be reduced. 21 The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in every shareholder’s best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: · Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire. · Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of us is made in the future. Under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan, the Board can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Once a shareholder acquires more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock without Board approval (the “acquiring person”), all other shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price less than their then fair market value. These subsequent purchases by other shareholders substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of Common Stock owned by the acquiring person. Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests as shareholders may differ from our other shareholders’. At February 28, 2010, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 15.1% of our outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and could experience substantial further declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the global economic and potential uncertainty have created significant additional volatility in the United States capital markets. This volatility and the recent market decline has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance or their business prospects, and has adversely affected and may further affect the price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of our shareholders’ investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders’ purchased their shares. 22 We may experience disruptions in or the inability to source raw materials to support our production processes or to deliver goods to our customers. We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals. We generally use raw materials available from more than one source. We could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice, which could lead to raw materials being purchased on less favorable terms than we have with our regular supplier. Additionally, we rely on various third-party delivery services to transport both goods from our vendors and finished products to our customers. A disruption in our ability to source or transport materials could delay or halt production and delivery of certain of our products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete. We may experience significant increases in operational costs beyond our control. Costs for certain items which are needed to run our business, such as energy and certain materials, have the potential to fluctuate. As these cost increases are often dependent on market conditions, and although we do our best to manage these price increases, we may experience increases in our costs due to the volatility of prices and market conditions. Increases in these costs could negatively impact our results of operations. Delays in, or failure of, the approval of our customers’ regulatory submissions could impact our revenue and earnings. The successful transition of clinical and preclinical candidates into long term commercial supply agreements is a key component of the LSM business strategy. If our customers do not receive approval of their regulatory submissions, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings. We may be subject to foreign currency risks. Our global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors. If we fail to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of our foreign currency risks, please see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 