ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic conditions in the United States. The recent declining economic conditions in the U.S. have adversely impacted our business. Such conditions have resulted in fewer miles driven, fewer accident claims and a reduction of vehicle repairs. In the event that the U.S. economic conditions do not improve or continue to decline, we expect that our business will continue to be negatively affected. We face intense competition from local, national, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. The vehicle replacement products industry is highly competitive and is served by numerous suppliers of OEM products, recycled OEM products, aftermarket products, and refurbished products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national providers, 15 Table of Contents and internet-based suppliers. Providers of vehicle replacement products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle replacement products, which may further increase competition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries, than we do. In certain regions of the U.S., local vehicle recycling companies have formed cooperative efforts to compete in the recycled OEM products industry. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. We believe that substantially in excess of 50% of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors like us. The OEMs are therefore in a position to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on perceived quality. From time to time, OEMs have experimented with reducing prices on specific products to meet the lower-priced alternative products. If such price reductions were to become widespread, it could have a material adverse impact on our business. Claims by OEMs relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. OEMs have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. The OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the United States International Trade Commission. Since our acquisition of Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc. in October 2007, the distribution of aftermarket products constitutes a significantly larger percentage of our business. In December 2005, Ford Global Technologies, LLC initiated a complaint with the International Trade Commission against six companies, including Keystone, alleging that certain aftermarket parts imported into the United States infringed on 14 design patents held by Ford Global. In December 2006, an administrative law judge of the International Trade Commission preliminarily ruled that seven of the Ford Global design patents were valid and that the importation of automotive parts covered by these seven patents violated Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930. The International Trade Commission affirmed the ruling of the administrative law judge and issued an order prohibiting further importation of automotive parts covered by the patents. The parties to the action have appealed the decision to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In May 2008, Ford Global filed another complaint with the International Trade Commission. The complaint alleges that LKQ Corporation, Keystone Automotive Industries, Inc, and six other entities import and sell certain automotive parts relating to the 2005 Ford Mustang that infringe eight Ford design patents. On May 29, 2008, the International Trade Commission issued a Notice of Investigation based on Ford’s complaint and has set November 2009 as the target date for completion of the investigation. United States Patent and Trademark Office records indicate that OEMs are seeking and obtaining more design patents then they have in the past. To the extent that the OEMs are successful with intellectual property infringement claims, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products which could have an adverse effect on our business. We will likely incur significant expenses investigating and defending intellectual property infringement claims. In addition, an unexpected result of the intellectual property infringement litigation is that CAPA is decertifying parts that are the subject of the claims. Lack of CAPA certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of CAPA certified aftermarket parts. 16 Table of Contents An adverse change in our relationships with auction companies or our suppliers could increase our expenses and hurt our ability to serve our customers. Most of our salvage inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not have contracts with any auction company. According to industry analysts, a small number of companies controls a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the U.S. If an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. Moreover, we are facing increased competition in the purchase of salvage vehicles from shredders and scrap recyclers, internet-based buyers, and others. This increase in the number of bidders may increase our cost of goods sold for recycled OEM products. Most states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal and legitimate purposes. Auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce or eliminate these regulations, which if successful would further increase the number of bidders. We also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, OEMs, aftermarket parts manufacturers, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. We are dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products. Although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced providing products. Moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, transportation delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China and Taiwan. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves parts manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. If our business relationships with insurance companies end, we may lose important sales opportunities. We rely on business relationships with several insurance companies. These insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. Our arrangements with these companies may be terminated at any time. We rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In an Illinois lawsuit involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Avery v. State Farm”), a jury decided in October 1999 that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-OEM parts to repair damaged vehicles when use of such parts did not restore the vehicle to its “pre-loss condition.” The jury found that State Farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM parts and the alleged inferiority of those parts. The jury assessed damages against State Farm of $456 million, and the judge assessed an additional $730 million of disgorgement and punitive damages for violations of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act. In April 2001, the Illinois Appellate Court upheld the verdict but reduced the damage award by $130 million because of duplicative damage awards. On August 18, 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards made by the circuit court and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract on the part of State Farm. The U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of this case. As a result of this case, some insurance companies had reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. Our financial results could be affected, perhaps adversely, if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled OEM products from us due to a fear of similar claims with respect to such products. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to sell our products due to existing or new laws and regulations prohibiting or restricting the sale of recycled OEM, aftermarket or refurbished products. Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled OEM products that we provide, such as airbags. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled OEM products. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Most states have passed laws that prohibit or limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair work and/or require enhanced disclosure or vehicle owner consent before using aftermarket products in such repair work. Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. In the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business. We may not be able to successfully acquire new operations or integrate acquisitions, which could cause our business to suffer. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms or for other reasons. If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company’s or division’s personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for environmental risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; • our ongoing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; and • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect. The acquisition of Keystone in October 2007 was our largest acquisition to date. Because of the magnitude of the Keystone acquisition, significant integration challenges remain, including the realization of the total projected cost savings, synergies and revenue enhancements that we anticipated. In connection with future acquisitions, we may assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire. These liabilities, including liabilities for environmental-related costs, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Financing the Keystone acquisition substantially increased our leverage and involves restrictions on our business. In connection with the acquisition of Keystone, we entered into a senior secured debt financing facility with a group of lenders. Our total outstanding indebtedness (including bank financing, letters of credit, and notes 18 Table of Contents payable in connection with acquisitions) as of December 31, 2008 was $666.1 million. The increase in our indebtedness may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditure or working capital needs because we will require additional funds to service our indebtedness. In addition, the senior secured credit agreement contains operating and financial restrictions and requires that we satisfy certain financial covenants. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facility or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. is the administrative agent and swing line lender under our credit agreement and had committed to provide $15 million under the revolving credit facility that is part of the credit agreement. Lehman Commercial Paper filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code on October 15, 2008. Accordingly, our access to same day borrowing of swing line loans and the $15 million of revolving credit is doubtful. We do not believe that an inability to draw on the $15 million revolving credit facility or to access our swing line facility will have a material adverse impact on us. However, to the extent that other lenders that are part of our credit agreement fail or file for bankruptcy protection, our access to funds under our revolving credit facility may be further adversely affected, which could harm our ability to do business. Our future capital needs may require that we seek debt financing or additional equity funding that, if not available, could cause our business to suffer. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. However, the recent turmoil in the credit markets has resulted in severely tighter credit conditions, which could affect our ability to raise additional funds until the turmoil subsides. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of the common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business will be negatively affected. Our annual and quarterly performance may fluctuate. Our revenue, cost of goods sold, and operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Future factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to, those listed in the Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Due to these factors, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. Accordingly, our results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. These fluctuations in our operating results may cause our results to fall below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Fluctuations in the prices of scrap metal and other metals could adversely affect our financial results. Our wholesale recycled OEM operations and our self-service retail recycled OEM operations generate scrap metal and other metals that we sell. After we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been used in our self-service business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. In addition, we receive “crush only” vehicles from 19 Table of Contents other companies, including OEMs, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals. The prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated due to market factors, sometimes significantly. In addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. To the extent the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of inventory value could be required. The cost of our wholesale recycled OEM and our self-service inventory purchases may also decrease as a result of falling scrap metal and other metals prices, but there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. Our operating results in the fourth quarter of 2008 were adversely affected by the declining scrap metal and other metal prices as described in the Results of Operations section in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we determine that our goodwill has become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of future acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31, 2008, our total goodwill, subject to future impairment testing, was approximately $923.8 million. For further discussion of our annual impairment test, see “Goodwill Impairment” in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Item 7 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines, our business could suffer. Because our business depends on vehicle accidents for both the supply of recycled OEM products and the demand for repairs using our products, factors which influence the number and/or severity of accidents, including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the use of cellular telephones and other electronic equipment by drivers, the congestion of traffic, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the use of alcohol and drugs by drivers, and the condition of roadways, impact our business. In this regard, a number of states and municipalities have adopted, or are considering adopting, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones while driving and such restrictions could lead to a decline in accidents. To the extent vehicle manufacturers develop new accident avoidance systems, the number and severity of accidents could decrease. Moreover, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road to decline as motorists seek alternative transportation options and this also could lead to a decline in accidents. Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits. Our operating subsidiaries must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. If we lose our key management personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose 20 Table of Contents the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. We rely on information technology in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. We use information technology systems owned by other companies for management of our facilities and our financial functions. In the event that the providers of these systems terminate their relationships with us, we could suffer disruptions to our operations. In addition, we continually monitor these systems to find areas for improvement. In the event that we decided to switch providers or to implement our own systems, we may also suffer disruptions to our business. We may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems, and we may underestimate the costs and expenses of developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. If we experience problems with our fleet of trucks, our business could be harmed. We use a fleet of trucks to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing trucking services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, and insurance premium increases. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. We are subject to various federal, state, and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We could be subject to product liability claims. If customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims. The successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Regulations that may be issued under the Anti-Car Theft Act could harm our business. In 1992, Congress enacted the Anti-Car Theft Act to deter trafficking in stolen vehicles. The purpose of the law is to implement an electronic system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers and major automotive parts. In January 2009, the U.S. Department of Justice implemented the portion of the system to track and monitor vehicle identification numbers. The portion of the system that would track and monitor major automotive parts would require various entities, including automotive parts recyclers like us, to inspect salvage vehicles for the purpose of collecting the part number for any “covered major part.” The Department of Justice has not promulgated rules on this portion of the system, and therefore there has been no progress on the implementation of the system to track and monitor major automotive parts. However, if this system is fully implemented, the requirement to collect the information would place substantial burdens on vehicle recyclers, including us, that otherwise would not normally exist. It would place similar burdens on repair shops, which may further discourage the use by such shops of recycled products. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. We and our stockholders may sell shares of common stock in the future. We may also issue shares of common stock under our equity incentive plan or in connection with future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the price of our common stock to fall. Delaware law, our charter documents and our loan documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could affect the price of our stock. The anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, our loan documents and Delaware law could, together or separately, impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have provisions that could discourage potential takeover attempts and make attempts by stockholders to change management more difficult. The credit agreement we entered into in connection with our acquisition of Keystone provides that a change of control is an event of default. Our incorporation under Delaware law and these provisions could also impede an acquisition, takeover, or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 