Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future. We experienced net losses of $4.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $8.4 million and $49.3 million (excluding reorganization items, net) for the five months ended December 31, 2004 and the seven months ended July 31, 2004, respectively, $597.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $664.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Although we had net income of $30.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, we may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis, or at all. If we fail to achieve consistent profitability, that failure could have a negative effect on our financial condition. We May Not Be Successful in Increasing Our Customer Base Which Would Negatively Affect Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook. Our growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis has varied substantially in the past. We believe that this uneven growth generally reflects seasonal trends in customer activity, promotional activity, the competition in the wireless telecommunications market, our reduction in spending on capital investments and advertising while we were in bankruptcy, and varying national economic conditions. Our current business plans assume that we will increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, our current business plans and financial outlook may be harmed. If We Experience High Rates of Customer Turnover, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or pass a credit check, our service is available to a broader customer base than that served by many other wireless providers. As a result, some of our customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay than the average industry customer, particularly during economic downturns or during periods of high gasoline prices. In addition, our rate of customer turnover may be affected by other factors, including the size of our calling areas, network performance and reliability issues, our handset or service offerings (including the ability of customers to cost-effectively roam onto other wireless networks), customer care concerns, phone number portability and other competitive factors. Our strategies to address customer turnover may not be successful. A high rate of customer turnover would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of replacement customers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Made Significant Investment, and Will Continue to Invest, in Joint Ventures That We Do Not Control. In November 2004, we acquired a 75% non-controlling interest in ANB 1, whose wholly owned subsidiary, ANB 1 License, was awarded certain licenses in Auction #58. In July 2006, we acquired a 72% non-controlling interest in LCW Wireless, which was awarded a wireless license for the Portland, Oregon market in Auction #58 and to which we contributed, among other things, two wireless licenses in Eugene and Salem, Oregon and related operating assets. In December 2006, we completed the replacement of certain network equipment of LCW Operations, and as a result, we now own a 73.3% non-controlling membership interest in LCW Wireless. Both ANB 1 License and LCW Wireless acquired their Auction #58 wireless licenses as “very small business” designated entities under FCC regulations. In July 2006, we acquired an 82.5% non-controlling interest in Denali, an entity which participated in Auction #66 as a “very small business” designated entity under FCC regulations. Our participation in these joint ventures is structured as a non-controlling interest in order to comply with FCC rules and regulations. We have agreements with our joint venture partners in ANB 1, LCW Wireless and Denali, and we plan to have similar agreements in connection with any future joint venture arrangements we may enter into, which are intended to allow us to actively participate to a limited extent in the development of the business through the joint venture. However, these agreements do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of any such joint venture. The FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire controlling interests in such entities during the period that such entities must maintain their eligibility as a 23 Table of Contents designated entity, as defined by the FCC. The entities or persons that control the joint ventures may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, if any of the other members of a joint venture files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to perform its obligations or does not manage the joint venture effectively, we may lose our equity investment in, and any present or future opportunity to acquire the assets (including wireless licenses) of, such entity. The FCC recently implemented rule changes aimed at addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, affirmed these changes on reconsideration and sought comment on further rule changes. In that proceeding, the FCC has re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses reap the benefits of the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. While we do not believe that the FCC’s recent rule changes materially affect our current joint ventures with ANB 1, LCW Wireless and Denali, the scope and applicability of these rule changes to such current designated entity structures remains in flux, and parties have already sought further reconsideration or judicial review of these rule changes. In addition, we cannot predict how further rule changes or increased regulatory scrutiny by the FCC flowing from this proceeding will affect our current or future business ventures with designated entities or our participation with such entities in future FCC spectrum auctions. We Face Increasing Competition Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for the Cricket Service. In general, the telecommunications industry is very competitive. Some competitors have announced rate plans substantially similar to Cricket’s service plans (and have also introduced products that consumers perceive to be similar to Cricket’s service plans) in markets in which we offer wireless service. In addition, one national wireless provider recently announced plans to conduct trials of a flat-rate unlimited service offering very similar to the Cricket service. This provider’s new service may present additional strong competition to Cricket service in markets in which our service offerings overlap. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications market have also caused other carriers to offer service plans with large bundles of minutes of use at low prices which are competing with the predictable and unlimited Cricket calling plans. Some competitors also offer prepaid wireless plans that are being advertised heavily to demographic segments that are strongly represented in Cricket’s customer base. These competitive offerings could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing and increase or maintain our market penetration. Our competitors may attract more customers because of their stronger market presence and geographic reach. Potential customers may perceive the Cricket service to be less appealing than other wireless plans, which offer more features and options. In addition, existing carriers and potential non-traditional carriers are exploring or have announced the launch of service using new technologies and/or alternative delivery plans. See “Item 1. Business — Competition.” Many competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have, and we may not be able to compete successfully. Because of their size and bargaining power, our larger competitors may be able to purchase equipment, supplies and services at lower prices than we can. Prior to the launch of a large market in 2006, disruptions by a competitor interfered with our indirect dealer relationships, reducing the number of dealers offering Cricket service during the initial weeks of launch. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services on a nationwide basis and at lower rates. We currently offer roaming services on a prepaid basis. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, any purchasing advantages our competitors have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our “Travel Time” roaming service, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to such carriers’ control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. We also compete as a wireless alternative to landline service providers in the telecommunications industry. Wireline carriers are also offering unlimited national calling plans and bundled offerings that include wireless and data services. We may not be successful in the long term, or continue to be successful, in our efforts to persuade potential customers to adopt our wireless service in addition to, or in replacement of, their current landline service. 24 Table of Contents The FCC is pursuing policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has adopted rules that allow the partitioning, disaggregation or leasing of PCS and other wireless licenses, and continues to allocate and auction additional spectrum that can be used for wireless services, which may increase the number of our competitors. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. We May Be Unable to Obtain the Roaming Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently have roaming agreements with several other carriers which allow our customers to roam on those carriers’ networks. The roaming agreements generally cover voice but not data services, and at least one such agreement may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. Our current and future customers may prefer that we offer roaming services that allow them to make calls automatically when they are outside of their Cricket service area, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to provide such roaming services for our customers in all areas of the U.S., or that we will be able to provide such services cost effectively. If we are unable to maintain our existing roaming agreements, and purchase wholesale roaming services at reasonable rates, then we may be unable to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Previously Identified Material Weaknesses in Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, and Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected If Our Internal Controls Are Not Effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to do a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on management’s assessment and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In connection with their evaluations of our disclosure controls and procedures, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and Chief Financial Officer, or CFO, concluded that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2006. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures. Our independent registered public accounting firm attested and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2005. We believe that each of these material weaknesses has now been adequately remediated. Although our management has concluded and our independent registered public accounting firm has attested and reported that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap’s common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our Primary Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term. A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers service plans that allow unlimited calls from within a local calling area for a flat monthly rate without entering into a fixed-term contract or passing a credit check. However, unlike national wireless carriers, we do not seek to provide ubiquitous coverage across the U.S. or 25 Table of Contents all major metropolitan centers, and instead have a smaller network footprint covering only the principal population centers of our various markets. This strategy may not prove to be successful in the long term. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have been unsuccessful. From time to time, we also evaluate our service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may modify, change, adjust or discontinue our service offerings or offer new services. We cannot assure you that these service offerings will be successful or prove to be profitable. We Expect to Incur Substantial Costs in Connection with the Build-Out of Our New Markets, and any Delays or Cost Increases in the Build-Out of Our New Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend in part on the successful, timely and cost-effective build-out of the network associated with newly acquired FCC licenses, including the licenses that we acquired in Auction #66 and the license that Denali License expects to be awarded as a result of Auction #66 and any licenses that we may acquire from third parties. Large scale construction projects such as the build-out of our new markets will require significant capital expenditures and may suffer cost-overruns. In addition, we will experience higher operating expenses as we build out and after we launch our service in new markets. Any significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses, including in connection with the build-out and launch of markets for the licenses that we and Denali License expect to be awarded as a result of Auction #66, would negatively impact our earnings and free cash flow for those periods in which we incur such capital expenditures or increased operating expenses. In addition, the build-out of the network may be delayed or adversely affected by a variety of factors, uncertainties and contingencies, such as natural disasters, difficulties in obtaining zoning permits or other regulatory approvals, our relationships with our joint venture partners, and the timely performance by third parties of their contractual obligations to construct portions of the network. The spectrum that was auctioned in Auction #66 currently is used by U.S. federal government and/or incumbent commercial licensees. FCC rules require winning bidders to avoid interfering with these existing users or to clear the incumbent users from the spectrum through specified relocation procedures. We considered the estimated cost and time frame required to clear the spectrum for which we and Denali License were declared the winning bidders in the auction. However, the actual cost of clearing the spectrum may exceed our estimated costs. Furthermore, delays in the provision of federal funds to relocate government users, or difficulties in negotiating with incumbent commercial licensees, may extend the date by which the auctioned spectrum can be cleared of existing operations, and thus may also delay the date on which we can launch commercial services using such licensed spectrum. In addition, certain existing government operations are using the Auction #66 spectrum for classified purposes. Although the government has agreed to clear that spectrum to allow the holders to use their AWS licenses in the affected areas, the government is only providing limited information to spectrum holders about these classified uses which creates additional uncertainty about the time at which such spectrum will be available for commercial use. Although our vendors have announced their intention to manufacture and supply network equipment and handsets that operate in the AWS spectrum bands, network equipment and handsets that support AWS are not presently available. If network equipment and handsets for the AWS spectrum are not made available on a timely basis in the future by our suppliers, our proposed build-outs and launches of new Auction #66 markets could be delayed, which would negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. In addition, if delays in the availability of AWS network equipment and handsets force us to choose a technology platform for our network other than CDMA, the adoption of such alternative technology solution could have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures and capital spending plans. Any significant increase in our expected capital expenditures in connection with the build-out and launch of Auction #66 licenses could negatively impact our earnings and free cash flow for those periods in which we incur such capital expenditures. Any failure to complete the build-out of our new markets on budget or on time could delay the implementation of our clustering and strategic expansion strategies, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If We Are Unable to Manage Our Planned Growth, Our Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted. We have experienced substantial growth in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future in our existing and new markets. The management of such growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs, diligent management of our network infrastructure and its growth, increased spending associated with marketing activities and acquisition of new customers, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. In addition, continued growth will eventually require the expansion of our billing, customer care and sales systems and platforms, which will require additional capital expenditures and may divert the time and attention of management personnel who oversee any such expansion. Furthermore, the implementation of any such systems or platforms, including the transition to such systems or platforms from our existing infrastructure, could result in unpredictable technological or other difficulties. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development or to timely and adequately resolve any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations. We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, our total outstanding indebtedness under the senior secured credit agreement was $896 million, and we also had a $200 million undrawn revolving credit facility (which forms part of our senior secured credit facility). In October 2006, we issued $750 million in unsecured senior notes. In addition, we may seek to raise additional funds in the future. Indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate, but we have entered into interest rate swap agreements with respect to $355 million of our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness could have material consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, building out our network, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. For a description of our senior secured credit facility, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Senior Secured Credit Facilities” in Part II of this report. As of December 31, 2006, 57.4% of our assets consisted of goodwill and other intangibles, including wireless licenses and deposits for wireless licenses. The value of our assets, and in particular, our intangible assets, will depend on market conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. By their nature, our intangible assets may not have a readily ascertainable market value or may not be saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for any remedies to be exercised with respect to our wireless licenses and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses. 27 Table of Contents Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We May Incur Substantially More Indebtedness. This Could Further Increase the Risks Associated with Our Leverage. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Among other things, we may require significant additional capital in the future to finance the build-out and initial operating costs associated with licenses that we acquired in Auction #66 and that Denali License expects to be awarded as a result of Auction #66. The terms of our senior unsecured indenture permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness under various financial ratio tests. If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II of this report. Furthermore, the subsequent build-out of the network covered by the licenses we acquired in Auction #66 may significantly reduce our free cash flow, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness. To Service Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures (including expenditures to build out our newly acquired wireless licenses), attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including under our senior unsecured indenture or our senior secured credit agreement, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Covenants in Our Indenture and Credit Agreement and Other Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter Into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our senior unsecured indenture and senior secured credit agreement contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and the subsidiary guarantors’ to make distributions or other payments to our investors or creditors until we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, the indenture and the credit agreement include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; 28 Table of Contents • sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. Under the senior secured credit agreement, we must also comply with, among other things, financial covenants with respect to a maximum consolidated senior secured leverage ratio and, if a revolving credit loan or uncollateralized letter of credit is outstanding, with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge ratio. The restrictions in our credit agreement could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar restrictions. If we default under our Indenture or our credit agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. Our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2005 constituted defaults under our previous senior secured credit agreement, and the restatement of certain of the historical consolidated financial information contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 may have constituted a default under our previous senior secured credit agreement. Although we were able to obtain limited waivers under our previous senior secured credit agreement with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a waiver in the future should a default occur. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under our indenture or our credit agreement, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rises in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect our Financial Condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, we estimate that approximately 34% of our debt was variable rate debt, after considering the effect of our interest rate swap agreements. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on our variable rate debt, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. The Wireless Industry is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change, and We May Lose Customers if We Fail to Keep Up with These Changes. The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. In the future, competitors may seek to provide competing wireless telecommunications service through the use of developing technologies such as Wi-Fi, WiMax, and Voice over Internet Protocol, or VoIP. The cost of implementing or competing against future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. For example, we have committed a substantial amount of capital to upgrade our network with 1xEV-DO technology to offer advanced data services. However, if such upgrades, technologies or services do not become commercially acceptable, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will be widespread demand for advanced data services or that this demand will develop at a level that will allow us to earn a reasonable return on our investment. In addition, CDMA 2000 infrastructure networks could become less popular in the future, which could raise the cost to us of equipment and handsets that use that technology relative to the cost of handsets and equipment that utilize other technologies. 29 Table of Contents The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We have experienced higher than normal employee turnover in the past, in part because of our bankruptcy, including turnover of individuals at the most senior management levels. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance. The loss of key individuals in the future may have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively manage and operate our business. Risks Associated with Wireless Handsets Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture handsets or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their handsets to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the handsets we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with handsets to protect us from direct losses associated with product liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective. Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that have overheated. Malfunctions have caused at least one major handset manufacturer to recall certain batteries used in its handsets, including batteries in a handset sold by Cricket and other wireless providers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions and defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services. In addition, if one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by the manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that has been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service. We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products we purchase. However, some suppliers, including software suppliers, are the exclusive sources of their specific products. 30 Table of Contents Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System Failures Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power loss, floods, windstorms, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing, or similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities, system failures, hardware or software failures, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause service interruptions. In addition, we are in the process of upgrading some of our internal network systems, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or interruptions while we transition our data and existing systems onto our new systems. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. To accommodate expected growth in our business, management has been planning to replace our customer billing and activation system, which we out-source to a third party, with a new system. The vendor who provides billing services to us has a contract to provide us services until 2010, but the vendor’s new billing product is substantially behind schedule and the vendor has missed significant development milestones. If we choose to purchase billing services from a different vendor to meet the requirements of our business and our growing customer base then, despite the existing vendor’s repeated performance issues and its failure to meet significant milestones on its new billing product, the existing vendor may claim that we have breached our obligations under the contract and seek substantial damages. If the vendor were to prevail on any such claim, the resolution of the matter could materially adversely impact our earnings and cash flows. We May Not be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which only offer limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide competitive advantages to us. For example, on June 14, 2006, we sued MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS, in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, Civil Action No. 2-06-CV-00240-TJW, for infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,813,497 “Method for Providing Wireless Communication Services and Network and System for Delivering Same,” issued to us. Our complaint seeks damages and an injunction against continued infringement. On August 3, 2006, MetroPCS (i) answered the complaint, (ii) raised a number of affirmative defenses, and (iii) together with two related entities (referred to, collectively with MetroPCS, as the MetroPCS entities), counterclaimed against Leap, Cricket, numerous Cricket subsidiaries, ANB 1 License, Denali License, and current and former employees of Leap and Cricket, including Leap CEO Douglas Hutcheson. The countersuit alleges claims for breach of contract, misappropriation, conversion and disclosure of trade secrets, misappropriation of confidential information and breach of confidential relationship, relating to information provided by MetroPCS to such employees, including prior to their employment by Leap, and asks the court to award damages, including punitive damages, impose an injunction enjoining us from participating in Auction #66, impose a constructive trust on our business 31 Table of Contents and assets for the benefit of MetroPCS, and declare that the MetroPCS entities have not infringed U.S. Patent No. 6,813,497 and that such patent is invalid. MetroPCS’s claims allege that we and the other counterclaim defendants improperly obtained, used and disclosed trade secrets and confidential information of the MetroPCS entities and breached confidentiality agreements with the MetroPCS entities. Based upon our preliminary review of the counterclaims, we believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend against the counterclaims. If the MetroPCS entities were to prevail in their counterclaims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, on September 22, 2006, Royal Street Communications, LLC, or Royal Street, an entity affiliated with MetroPCS, filed an action in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Tampa Division, Civil Action No. 8:06-CV-01754-T-23TBM, seeking a declaratory judgment that Cricket’s U.S. Patent No. 6,813,497 “Method for Providing Wireless Communication Services and Network and System for Delivering Same” (the same patent that is the subject of our infringement action against MetroPCS) is invalid and is not being infringed by Royal Street or its PCS systems. On October 17, 2006, we filed a motion to dismiss the case or, in the alternative, to transfer the case to the Eastern District of Texas. We intend to vigorously defend against these actions. On August 3, 2006, MetroPCS filed a separate action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas, Dallas Division, Civil Action No. 3-06CV1399-D, seeking a declaratory judgment that our U.S. Patent No. 6,959,183 “Operations Method for Providing Wireless Communication Services and Network and System for Delivering Same” (a different patent from the one that is the subject of our infringement action against MetroPCS) is invalid and is not being infringed by MetroPCS and its affiliates. On January 24, 2007, the court dismissed this case, without prejudice, for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. Because the case was dismissed without prejudice, MetroPCS could file another complaint with the same claims in the future. Similarly, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. We May Be Subject to Claims of Infringement Regarding Telecommunications Technologies That Are Protected by Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations, the equipment, software or services that we use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless network. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to protect us against possible infringement claims, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim was valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all), or requiring us to redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. A third party with a large patent portfolio has contacted us and suggested that we need to obtain a license under a number of its patents in connection with our current business operations. We understand that the third party has raised similar issues with, and in some cases has filed suit against, other telecommunications companies, and has obtained license agreements from one or more of such companies. If we cannot reach a mutually agreeable resolution with the third party, we may be forced to enter into a licensing or royalty agreement with it on terms that may have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, a wireless provider has contacted us and asserted that Cricket’s practice of providing service to customers with phones that were originally purchased for use on that provider’s network violates copyright laws and interferes with that provider’s contracts with its customers. Based on our preliminary review, we do not believe that Cricket’s actions violate copyright laws or otherwise violate the other provider’s rights. We do not currently expect that the eventual resolution of these matters will materially adversely affect our business, but we cannot provide assurance to our investors about the effect of any such future resolution. 32 Table of Contents Regulation by Government Agencies May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. In particular, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, will not be further amended in a manner that could be adverse to us. The FCC recently implemented rule changes and sought comment on further rule changes focused on addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, which gives certain categories of small businesses preferential treatment in FCC spectrum auctions based on size. In that proceeding, the FCC has re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes or increased regulatory scrutiny that may follow from this proceeding will affect our current or future business ventures or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. Our operations are subject to various other regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. If Call Volume under Our Cricket and Jump Mobile Services Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Competitive Position. During the year ended December 31, 2006, Cricket customers used their handsets for an average of approximately 1,450 minutes per month, and some markets were experiencing substantially higher call volumes. Our Cricket service plans bundle certain features, long distance and unlimited local service for a fixed monthly fee to more effectively compete with other telecommunications providers. In addition, call volumes under our Jump Mobile services have been significantly higher than expected. If customers exceed expected usage, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high call volume, and we consistently assess and try to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. However, if future wireless use by Cricket and Jump Mobile customers exceeds the capacity of our network, service quality may suffer. We may be forced to raise the price of Cricket and Jump Mobile service to reduce volume or otherwise limit the number of new customers, or incur substantial capital expenditures to improve network capacity. We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or on a Timely Basis. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed fee, our customers’ average minutes of use per month is substantially above the U.S. wireless customer average. We intend to meet this demand by utilizing spectrum efficient technologies. Despite our recent spectrum purchases, there may come a point where we need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain an acceptable grade of service or provide new services to meet increasing customer demands. We also intend to acquire additional spectrum in order to enter new strategic markets. However, 33 Table of Contents we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost, that Denali License will be awarded the license for which it was the winning bidder at Auction #66, or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC on a timely basis. If such additional spectrum is not available to us when required or at a reasonable cost, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Wireless Licenses are Subject to Renewal and Potential Revocation in the Event that We Violate Applicable Laws. Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10 or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our PCS wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that has provided substantial service during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. The FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Wireless Licenses Could Result in Future Impairment Charges. During the three months ended June 30, 2003, we recorded an impairment charge of $171.1 million to reduce the carrying value of our wireless licenses to their estimated fair value. However, as a result of our adoption of fresh-start reporting under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 90-7, “Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code,” or SOP 90-7, we increased the carrying value of our wireless licenses to $652.6 million at July 31, 2004, the fair value estimated by management based in part on information provided by an independent valuation consultant. During the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, we recorded impairment charges of $7.9 million and $12.0 million, respectively. The market values of wireless licenses have varied dramatically over the last several years, and may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings; • a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or • market prices decline as a result of the sales prices in FCC auctions. In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has recently auctioned an additional 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in Auction #66 and has announced that it intends to auction additional spectrum in the 700 MHz and 2.5 GHz bands in subsequent auctions. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We conduct our annual tests for impairment of our wireless licenses during the third quarter of each year. Estimates of the fair value of our wireless licenses are based primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet. 34 Table of Contents Declines in Our Operating Performance Could Ultimately Result in an Impairment of Our Indefinite-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill, or Our Long-Lived Assets, Including Property and Equipment. We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. If we do not achieve our planned operating results, this may ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our goodwill or wireless licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet. We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party. Similarly, when a customer of another carrier calls one of our customers, that carrier is required to pay us. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. The FCC is actively considering possible regulatory approaches to address this situation but we cannot assure you that the FCC rulings will be beneficial to us. An adverse ruling or FCC inaction could result in carriers successfully collecting higher intercarrier fees from us, which could adversely affect our business. The FCC also is considering making various significant changes to the intercarrier compensation scheme to which we are subject. We cannot predict with any certainty the likely outcome of this FCC proceeding. Some of the alternatives that are under active consideration by the FCC could severely increase the interconnection costs we pay. If we are unable to cost-effectively provide our products and services to customers, our competitive position and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. Because Our Consolidated Financial Statements Reflect Fresh-Start Reporting Adjustments Made Upon Our Emergence From Bankruptcy, Financial Information in Our Current and Future Financial Statements Will Not Be Comparable to Our Financial Information for Periods Prior to Our Emergence from Bankruptcy. As a result of adopting fresh-start reporting on July 31, 2004, the carrying values of our wireless licenses and our property and equipment, and the related depreciation and amortization expense, among other things, changed considerably from that reflected in our historical consolidated financial statements. Thus, our current and future balance sheets and results of operations will not be comparable in many respects to our balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations data for periods prior to our adoption of fresh-start reporting. You are not able to compare information reflecting our post-emergence balance sheet data, results of operations and changes in financial condition to information for periods prior to our emergence from bankruptcy without making adjustments for fresh-start reporting. If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease. Our operating costs can increase substantially as a result of customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the types of fraud we have identified. However, if our strategies are not successful in detecting and controlling fraud in the future, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment. The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock is likely to be subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include, among other things: • variations in our operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. The 16,460,077 Shares of Leap Common Stock Registered for Resale By Our Shelf Registration Statement May Adversely Affect The Market Price of Leap’s Common Stock. As of February 23, 2007, 67,909,011 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding. Our resale shelf Registration Statement, as amended, registers for resale 16,460,077 shares, or approximately 24.2%, of Leap’s outstanding common stock. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares may have on the then prevailing market price of Leap’s common stock. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap’s common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted Upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect The Market Price of Leap’s Common Stock. As of February 23, 2007, 67,909,011 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 4,732,886 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 3,365,473 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of awards granted or available for grant under Leap’s 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, 767,413 shares reserved for issuance under Leap’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 600,000 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. In addition, Leap has reserved five percent of its outstanding shares, which was 3,395,451 shares as of February 23, 2007, for potential issuance to CSM upon the exercise of CSM’s option to put its entire equity interest in LCW Wireless to Cricket. Under the amended and restated limited liability company agreement with CSM and WLPCS Management, LLC, or WLPCS, the purchase price for CSM’s equity interest is calculated on a pro rata basis using either the appraised value of LCW Wireless or a multiple of Leap’s enterprise value divided by its adjusted EBITDA and applied to LCW Wireless’ adjusted EBITDA to impute an enterprise value and equity value for LCW Wireless. Cricket may satisfy the put price either in cash or in Leap common stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by Cricket in its discretion. However, the covenants in our senior secured credit agreement do not permit Cricket to satisfy any substantial portion of its put obligations to CSM in cash. If Cricket elects to satisfy its put obligations to CSM with Leap common stock, the obligations of the parties are conditioned upon the block of Leap common stock issuable to CSM not constituting more than five percent of Leap’s outstanding common stock at the time of issuance. Dilution of the outstanding number of shares of Leap’s common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Leap’s common stock. We have agreed to prepare and file a resale shelf registration statement for any shares of Leap common stock issued to CSM in connection with the put, and to use our reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC. In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option, restricted stock and deferred stock unit plan and under our employee stock purchase plan. When 36 Table of Contents we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap’s common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs. Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 24.6% of Leap common stock as of February 23, 2007. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap’s assets and other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws or Delaware Law Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress The Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 