Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements and financial discussion and analysis by our management contained in this 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. They reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and, accordingly, are subject to certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed below. If any of the following or other risks actually occurs, or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated by those forward-looking statements. Furthermore, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A failure by any of our colleges to comply with extensive federal and state regulations could have a material adverse impact on its ability to operate and grow. We derived approximately 92% of our 2006 net revenue from federal and state grants and loans. Participation in the federal and state grant and loan programs subject TCI, Interboro, and PSB to frequent reviews and detailed oversight. Each of our colleges must comply with complex laws and regulations, including with respect to its accreditation, operations, growth and change of its or EVCI’s corporate structure or ownership and control. The regulations, standards and policies of the regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to political and other pressures. SED’s decision to issue the Draft Report and then place enrollment caps on new student enrollment was motivated by concerns about the ability of Interboro ATB students to persist and graduate at percentage rates deemed appropriate by SED even though Interboro’s graduation rates significantly exceed the average three year graduation rates for African American and Hispanic minority students at other associate degree colleges in New York State and nationwide. We believe that Interboro’s rapid growth and the resulting increase in its share of TAP funds were also significant factors in SED’s decision. As is clear from Interboro’s recent experiences with SED, an alleged failure to comply with existing or new requirements resulting from changes in standards or new interpretations has already and, in the future, could materially and adversely affect EVCI. Some of the specific significant regulatory risks are described in risk factors below. Adverse changes in the rules governing TAP disbursements could materially impede Interboro’s and TCI’s ability to operate. There could be changes in TAP laws and regulations that deny or decrease the amount of TAP grants by various means that include changing eligibility requirements or by requiring Interboro and TCI to materially increase their administrative costs and practices relating to TAP. Those changes could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, margins and ability to continue in business using our current business models. 29 The executive and legislative debate each year over the New York State budget usually includes controversy over TAP. We cannot predict what will happen each budget year because the issues relating to TAP are highly political in nature. Changes in Ability to Benefit regulations could materially and adversely affect Interboro’s and TCI’s ability to operate and grow. For the past four semesters, ATB students have averaged approximately 77% of Interboro’s enrollment, approximately 41% of TCI’s enrollment and approximately 41% of PSB’s enrollment. They are students who entered Interboro, TCI or PSB without a high school diploma or a GED, in significant part, because they achieved a minimum score, or a higher score set by the college, on a test approved by the DOE that demonstrates that they have the “ability to benefit” from a college’s program of study. Governor Eliot Spitzer’s 2007 budget proposed that students who first receive TAP in academic year 2007/2008 or thereafter must have a high school diploma or GED or meet other academic standards or requirements determined by New York’s Commissioner of Education. The Legislature substantially modified the Governor’s proposal to require ATB students to pass a Federally approved ATB test that has been identified as appropriate by the Board of Regents and has been “independently administered and evaluated” as defined by the New York Commissioner of Education. We believe the New York Board of Regents might require colleges to use an ATB exam that is more difficult than the CPAT, which is currently the exam used at TCI and Interboro. The CPAT is the federally approved ATB exam most used by other colleges admitting ATB students. Changes that materially increase the difficulty of a mandated entrance exam for Interboro and TCI students could have a material adverse affect on their results unless, and until, strategies that offset those changes are implemented. Any changes in current laws governing TAP that materially limit Interboro’s and TCI’s ability to enroll ATB students or the availability of financial aid to ATB students, could have a corresponding material adverse affect on Interboro and TCI unless they are able to implement strategies to accommodate any material adverse change. Even if Interboro and TCI were successful, in the interim EVCI’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Plans by TCI and Interboro to recruit more high school graduates and students with GED’s, so that each are less dependent on ATB students, may not be successful. 30 The amount and timing of TAP disbursements could materially impede the ability of Interboro and TCI to operate. Budgetary issues have caused delays in TAP disbursements. TAP payments relating to Interboro’s and TCI’s spring semesters that would otherwise be made during the period from the last week of December through May were deferred: · In December 2004, TAP advised that a total of approximately $3.8 million of payments payable for Interboro’s and TCI’s spring 2005 semesters would be deferred until August 1, 2005. This deferral turned out to be less, as Interboro and TCI received the following approximate payments of their deferred amounts: Month Interboro TCI March $ 1,100,000 $ 430,000 June 1,200,000 280,000 July 400,000 390,000 · In December 2005, TAP advised that a total of approximately $3.6 million of payments payable for Interboro’s and TCI’s spring 2006 semesters would be deferred until August 1, 2006. This deferral also turned out to be less as Interboro and TCI received the following approximate payments of their deferred amounts: Month Interboro TCI March $ 1,800,000 $ 700,000 June 700,000 370,000 In addition, TAP rules, unrelated to yearly budgeting issues, require the deferral of TAP payments for the third semester within the same academic year. As a result in 2005 and 2006, the following deferrals of TAP payments relating to the spring semester were deferred to October: Year Interboro TCI 2005 $ 1,015,000 $ 919,000 2006 674,000 940,000 31 The 2005 TAP deferrals did not adversely affect the ability of either TCI or Interboro to operate or grow. However, the 2006 deferrals contributed to the strain on Interboro’s liquidity in combination with the following: · the losses from operations at Interboro · payments of interest and principal on our bank debt · Interboro not receiving prepayments of TAP funds resulting in delays of receipt of these funds for up to eight weeks · the seasonality of our business, particularly during July and August We could be mistaken in our belief that our available cash resources will prevent future deferrals from adversely affecting our ability to operate and our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants of our bank agreement. Interboro may be subject to even more severe action by SED if it is not able to achieve a 65% persistence rate or to implement other required changes at Interboro to SED’s satisfaction. SED is requiring that Interboro limit the number of new enrollments it may accept. These caps are, in significant part, tied to an SED expectation that at least 65% of Interboro students who are first enrolled at Interboro will persist to their second semester of attendance at Interboro. Interboro’s persistence rate to a second semester for the spring 2006 semester was approximately 50%, which is a 19% increase over the 42% persistence rate for the spring 2005 semester. Interboro’s persistence rate to a second semester for the summer 2006 semester was approximately 54%, which represents a 20% increase over the 45% persistence rate for the comparable summer 2005 semester. Interboro’s persistence rate to the spring 2007 semester for the fall 2006 semester was approximately 60%, which is a 15% increase over the 52% rate to the spring 2006 semester for the fall 2005 semester. Persistence rates for new students who start at Interboro in the fall semester have been generally greater than new students who start in a spring or summer semester SED monitored Interboro’s progress with site visits in the summer and fall of 2006. On March 23, 2007, Interboro received an interim report from SED that sets forth substantial progress and evident improvements. However, the interim report also notes continuing areas of weakness and concern that prevent any upward adjustment or removal of the SED enrollment caps at this time. SED does not intend to issue a final report until after a third site visit, tentatively scheduled for summer 2007. 32 A new TAP requirement relating to accelerated study could have a material adverse impact on our revenue and retention and graduation rates. In April 2006, the New York State budget law made changes to the method in which colleges must determine the eligibility for certain TAP payments. A third consecutive TAP payment in any 12-month period is an “accelerated” payment. In order to receive an accelerated payment, an institution must certify, along with other TAP eligibility standards, that the student earned 24 credits in the prior two semesters. In April 2007, the New York State Legislature modified accelerated TAP, effective April 1, 2007. A student still needs to satisfactorily complete 24 hours in the prior two semesters but may include the equivalent of three hours per semester as remedial courses that do not carry credit. Until the spring 2007 semester, Interboro’s administration and other college administrators throughout New York State did not have experience with how the new TAP accelerated rules could affect registration of continuing students. We estimate that our revenue for the spring 2007 semester was approximately $175,000 less at TCI and approximately $110,000 less at Interboro due to the effect of accelerated TAP. We also estimate that our revenue for spring 2007 semester, if the modified accelerated TAP law were in affect, would have been approximately $119,000 less at TCI and approximately $44,000 less at Interboro. Over the long term, EVCI’s revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected if Interboro and TCI are not able to offset the affect of accelerated TAP on their revenue and cash flow. Increasing persistence rates and participating in Title IV loan programs are key strategies in dealing with the consequences of accelerated TAP. TCI offers Title IV loans to eligible students which can provide financial assistance to meet tuition costs for students not eligible for a third consecutive semester of TAP grants. Interboro does not, at present, offer Title IV loans to its students. Interboro plans to apply to the DOE for the authorization to offer Title IV loans, as soon as the DOE permits, following Interboro’s receipt of the DOE’s determination regarding the results of Interboro’s ATB rescoring project. If the DOE consents, Interboro will offer Title IV loans using the TCI model, which has been successful in keeping default rates low. If Interboro does not become authorized to offer Title IV loans to students who are not eligible for accelerated TAP payments, Interboro may provide students with an opportunity to receive internal loans from the college so their persistence is not interrupted, the risk of their dropping out of Interboro is mitigated and they are eligible for Title IV grants to cover part of their tuition. While Title IV loans provide cash payments to the college before or during the semester and increase revenue when made, internal Interboro loans would be repaid by the students to the college over a period of time and would reduce revenue when made. Accordingly, internal loans are not desirable from a revenue or cash flow perspective. 33 Adverse changes in the rules governing, or the amount or timing of, Pell program disbursements could materially impede our college’s ability to operate. Title IV must be reauthorized by Congress every six years. The HEA has been extended, without reauthorization through June 30, 2007. This is the third extension. Congress also reviews appropriations for Title IV programs annually. Congress did not increase the maximum Pell award for the four award years 2003/2004 through 2006/2007. Effective for the award year beginning July 1, 2007, the maximum Pell grant will increase by $260 to $4,310 per award year. Any significant decreases in the amount or timing of revenue received through the Pell program would have a material adverse effect on our colleges. Additionally, Congressional or regulatory actions may materially increase our colleges’ administrative costs and require them to modify their practices in a material adverse manner. Title IV program reviews and audits of any EVCI college could result in it being required to make material refunds of Title IV and TAP funds and EVCI being required to reduce its operating income by the amount of those refunds. Schools participating in Title IV programs are routinely reviewed or audited by DOE personnel to determine their compliance with Title IV regulations. Since January 2005, a program review has been conducted by the DOE of Interboro’s compliance with respect to Title IV grants made to Interboro students during July-June of years 2002/2003, 2003/2004 and 2004/2005. During the review, the DOE sampled 60 student files and found that Interboro accepted three students who did not pass the ATB test and that an additional 11 students properly passed the ATB test but their exams were misgraded. As a result, the DOE requested that Interboro rescore all ATB tests that were the basis for admitting students who attended Interboro during any of the three reviewed years and who received Title IV funds at any time after being admitted. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2005, Interboro has been outsourcing the ATB testing process for all student applicants. Interboro completed the rescoring of 9,513 ATB recipients’ tests and submitted the results to the DOE by the DOE’s deadline of November 14, 2006. EVCI has accrued $3.7 million as of December 31, 2006, to provide for potential refunds of Pell and TAP grants, and has estimated this amount could reach $4.5 million. Borrowing under EVCI’s senior credit facility will be used to pay the amounts that are ultimately determined to be owed by Interboro to the DOE and HESC. For additional information about this potential liability, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2007, the DOE’s Office of Inspector General started an audit to determine whether TCI correctly administered the Pell Grant and student loan programs (FFELP) for the period July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2006. 34 Any DOE review or audit could result in material disallowances for failure to satisfy DOE eligibility and administrative requirements. Our failure to satisfy specific financial responsibility standards established by federal and state regulators or the non-governmental agencies that accredit our schools could have a material adverse effect on us. Participation by TCI, Interboro and PSB in federal Title IV programs or in state TAP or PHEAA programs, requires them to satisfy specific standards of financial responsibility. The U.S. Department of Education, the Higher Education Services Corporation of New York and Pennsylvania State Board of Private Licensed Schools evaluate institutions for compliance with these standards each year, based on the annual audited financial statements of the institution and its parent corporation and after a change of control of an institution. To be considered financially responsible by the DOE, an institution must, among other things, have sufficient cash reserves to make required refunds, be current on its debt payments, meet all of its financial obligations, and achieve a “composite score” of at least 1.5 based on the institutions annual audited financial statements. The DOE calculates the institution’s composite score based on its: · equity ratio, which measures the institution’s capital resources, ability to borrow and financial viability · primary reserve ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to support current operations from expendable resources and · net income ratio, which measures the institution’s ability to operate at a profit. Once computed, these ratios are adjusted by strength factors, weighted and summed to determine the institution’s composite score, which may range from negative one to three. If an institution’s composite score is 1.5 or greater and it satisfies all other DOE standards of financial responsibility, the institution is deemed financially responsible. If the composite score is between 1.0 and 1.5, the institution is subject to certain reporting and monitoring requirements that generally do not have a material financial impact on the institution. An institution that does not meet the DOE’s minimum composite score may demonstrate its financial responsibility by either posting a letter of credit in favor of the Department of Education in an amount equal to at least 50% of the Title IV program funds received by the institution during its prior year or by posting a letter of credit in an amount equal to at least 10% of the Title IV program funds received by the institution during its prior fiscal year and accepting other conditions on its participation in the Title IV programs. SED also uses the DOE method for calculating a composite score as a measure for determining financial responsibility but we cannot now determine what action, if any, HESC would take if EVCI does not meet the minimum composite score. The financial responsibility of our schools is tested as of December 31 of each year, generally based on financial statements submitted to the DOE by June 30th of the following year. At December 31, 2005, composite scores of Interboro and TCI, separately, and EVCI on a consolidated basis, each exceeded 1.5. 35 Our composite score at December 31, 2006 was tested based on EVCI’s consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2006, our composite score was less than 1.0. EVCI believes the ComVest Financing and simultaneous restructuring of its bank debt provide EVCI with the financial resources needed to demonstrate EVCI’s financial responsibility to its regulators for the foreseeable future. If our belief is wrong, we may need to obtain additional financing and, again, to restructure our bank debt in order to enable EVCI to demonstrate its financial responsibility. However, if EVCI is unsuccessful in those efforts, we could be forced to take measures that could include selling assets on terms that will probably be unfavorable to EVCI. PSB recently received notice from ACCSAT that it is being placed on probation because of concerns ACCSCT has about PSB’s financial condition and resources. We believe the ComVest Financing and Bank Debt restructuring should address these concerns. A future TAP audit could result in Interboro or TCI being required to make material refunds of TAP and Pell grants and EVCI being required to reduce its operating income by the full amount of those refunds. The Office of the New York State Comptroller periodically conducts routine audits of colleges and universities that participate in TAP. The principle purpose of an audit is to determine whether a college complies with rules and regulations in certifying the TAP eligibility of its students. In March 2005, Interboro received the final report from the Comptroller that details the reasons for disallowances of TAP and Pell of $903,150 resulting from the TAP audit commenced in February 2004 of Interboro’s three academic years ended June 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The total amount of TAP grants made to Interboro students during the period covered by the TAP audit was approximately $21 million. TCI’s last TAP audit covered three academic years ended June 30, 2000, 2001 and 2002, started in June 2003, concluded in March 2004 and required TCI to pay disallowances of $19,554. The total amount of TAP grants made to TCI students during the period covered by the TAP audit was approximately $39 million. We believe that there is a correlation between the amount and rate of a school’s growth and the likelihood of a TAP audit. Furthermore, the likelihood of a TAP audit of Interboro and TCI may have increased as a result of the Draft Report to Interboro. Even though HESC has publicly stated that a routine TAP audit is normally scheduled every three to four years, we cannot predict when another TAP audit will occur. We also cannot predict what affect a future TAP audit will have on our results of operations and liquidity or on our ability to operate and grow. A similar risk applies to PSB’s receipt of funds from PHEAA grants. Over the longer term, we expect enrollments at, and earnings of, our colleges to grow at a much slower rate than they have since we acquired Interboro. Interboro’s aggressive growth has attracted significant attention and has resulted in higher regulatory scrutiny and media coverage, all of which has had a material adverse affect on EVCI and its stock price. 36 Interboro’s compounded annual growth rate of enrollments through 2005 of approximately 42% since it was acquired by EVCI in January 2000, substantially exceeded industry averages. This fact, and the fact that approximately 77% of Interboro’s student population is comprised of ATB students, greatly increased Interboro’s visibility, not only in its target market, but also to regulators and the media. Higher visibility translates into greater scrutiny, especially when there is adverse publicity concerning other public companies owning for profit-career colleges. Greater scrutiny increases the likelihood that regulators will seek to limit a college’s growth. It also increases the likelihood that the media may seek to discredit a college’s business model and conduct of its business, as has been the case with the Draft Report and ensuing events. We expect to limit internal growth of enrollments at TCI to 10% to 15% year over year. Provided the SED enrollment caps are lifted at Interboro in the future, we expect to limit the aggregate internal growth of enrollments at Interboro also to 10% to 15% year over year. We believe this rate is more in line with the average internal growth rates at colleges owned by public companies. However, this expectation does not in any way constitute guidance for any period. If Interboro is unable to improve its graduation rate to levels SED deems acceptable, the Board of Regents may deny or adversely condition Interboro’s reaccreditation. If Interboro does not succeed in reaching a 25% graduation rate for students attending Interboro for three years, the New York Board of Regents could deny or onerously condition Interboro’s reaccreditation in September 2008. In addition, SED could continue to limit significantly Interboro’s growth throughout the period prior to reaccreditation because it believes Interboro is not effectively implementing improvements or that the improvements, even if implemented, cannot accomplish what SED deems necessary. One or more of these risks could occur even though Interboro’s graduation and job placement rates are within five percentage points of the means referred to in the following Rules of the Board of Regents, as recently amended: · an institution that has an associate degree completion rate that is more than five percentage points below the mean associate degree completion rate reported by all New York state colleges is required to submit to SED a plan to improve graduation rates. · an institution whose mission includes the preparation of students for employment, that reports job placement rates to SED and that offers no programs higher than the associate degree level is required to submit to SED a plan to improve job placement rates if its job placement rates are more than five percentage points below the mean job placement rate reported by all New York state associate degree colleges. TCI’s three year graduation rate was 27.3% for its fall 2003 cohort. Interboro’s three year graduation rate for its fall 2003 cohort was approximately 19%. The mean graduation rates for all New York associate degree colleges was approximately 25% for the same cohort. 37 TCI is currently reporting to SED a job placement rate that is more than 80%. Interboro is currently reporting to SED a job placement rate that is approximately 80%. The capital and operating costs of implementing agreements with SED, in response to SED’s recommendations, could significantly exceed the estimates we have made to date. SED could require Interboro to make further changes to Interboro’s operations. Except for the presently undetermined cost of improvements to, or possible relocations of Interboro’s Mid-Manhattan and Washington Heights locations, which SED has indicated are basically unsatisfactory, we estimate the cost of changes recommended by SED in its March 23, 2007 interim report will not be material. We could be wrong in our current estimates because of unanticipated costs. In either event, the costs to Interboro of complying with the final SED report, anticipated by the March 2007 interim report, could significantly exceed the $150,000 per year costs we are currently estimating. Our margins may continue to erode if the maximum federal and state grants and loans do not increase over time. As we have grown, we have, until 2006, been able to improve our margins through economies of scale and other operating efficiencies. As a result of the Interboro enrollment caps, increases in costs at Interboro and TCI’s higher cost structure, EVCI’s margins are expected to be significantly lower for the foreseeable future. Approximately 94% of Interboro’s net revenue, and 61% of TCI’s net revenue, consisted of PELL and TAP grants in 2006. The maximum Pell grant per award year (July 1 - June 30) has risen from $2,300 for the award year 1994/1995 to its current level of $4,310. Since award year 2000/2001, the maximum semester Pell award has been: Award Year Maximum Pell Grants 2000/2001 $ 3,300 2001/2002 3,750 2002/2003 4,000 2003/2004 4,050 2004/2005 4,050 2005/2006 4,050 2006/2007 4,050 2007/2008 4,310 The maximum Pell grant per semester is 50% of the award year maximum. A student can only receive two semesters of Pell grants in an award year. The maximum TAP grant per semester has been $2,500 since April 2000 and was $2,062 from 1994 through April 2000. A student may not be eligible for a third consecutive semester of TAP under accelerated TAP rules. 38 If the maximum available Pell and TAP grants do not continue to exceed Interboro’s tuition and fees, Interboro’s margins would erode further unless the gap is covered by participating in Title IV loan programs. Since we acquired Interboro, the college has avoided participating in any Title IV loan programs because it did not want to risk losing eligibility to participate in the Pell grant program as a result of its students exceeding permissible Title IV loan repayment default rates. As the result of TCI’s success in managing its Title IV loan defaults and concerns Interboro has about the long-term effects of accelerated TAP rules, Interboro plans to apply to the DOE for authorization to participate in Title IV loan programs as soon as the DOE permits following Interboro’s receipt of the DOE’s determination regarding the results of Interboro’s ATB rescoring project. However, there is no assurance that Interboro loan default rates will be below the permissible limits of 25% for each of three consecutive years and 40% for one year. If TCI’s cost structure requires additional increases in its tuition without a concurrent and similar dollar amount increases in Pell and TAP grant amounts, its margins will erode unless its students obtain larger Title IV loans. As a result, TCI’s Title IV loan default rate may increase, and its competitive position to attract students may be diminished. The seasonality of our enrollments produces significant variations in our results from quarter to quarter. Our revenue varies seasonally as a result of changes in student enrollment. Total student enrollment and net revenue are typically highest in our fourth and first quarters, which include October through March. As a result, our second and third quarters were not profitable prior to our 2003 third quarter in which we had net income of $79,000. In 2004, we lost $585,000 in our second quarter and $1,180,000 in our third quarter. In 2005, we had a profit of $320,000 in our second quarter and a loss of $1,493,000 in our third quarter. The effect of seasonality on our losses for 2006 was overshadowed by other factors. Furthermore, while for a full fiscal year, changes in enrollments directly relate to changes in revenue, enrollments for academic semesters do not have the same direct relationship to revenues for any particular fiscal quarter. Our schools’ semesters are 15 weeks long and revenue per semester is, therefore, reported over two quarters. The liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital when we may need it most will be adversely affected by a delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. Under the rules of the Nasdaq Capital Market, we are required to obtain stockholder approval of the ComVest Financing. However, in order to preserve the financial viability of EVCI, it was necessary to enter into a binding agreement that requires a closing of the transactions before stockholder approval can be obtained. We plan to apply to Nasdaq for an exception to the stockholder approval requirements for the ComVest Financing. Nasdaq has the sole discretion to grant the exemption and it is not easily obtained. If not granted, we expect to be delisted from Nasdaq. 39 In addition, since June 2006, EVCI has not complied with the minimum bid price rule of at least $1.00 per share of The Nasdaq Capital Market. It has until to June 11, 2007 to regain compliance by satisfying the minimum bid price rule for at least 10 consecutive business days, provided EVCI meets other continued inclusion requirements for listing. These include a market capitalization of at least $5.0 million. After our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, trading will thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market on the “electronic bulletin board” or in the “pink sheets.” As a consequence: · the liquidity of our common stock would be impaired, not only in the number of shares that could be bought and sold and lower prices for them, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts’ and the news media’s coverage of us. · these trading factors would also make our common stock materially less attractive to potential sources of financing that we may require in connection with a refinancing or repayment of our bank debt. Actual or threatened legal proceedings against us or any of our colleges by regulatory agencies or private parties could have a material adverse effect on our business. The status of pending lawsuits resulting from the Draft Report and ensuing events are described in this report under the caption “Legal Proceedings.” From time to time, we may be subject to investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or other third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend or have adequate insurance coverage against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, loss of financial aid eligibility, or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues. This could also materially hurt our business. Provisions of laws or regulations, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and the terms of the ComVest Financing discourage takeover attempts by any party except, perhaps, ComVest. It is highly unlikely a party could succeed in an attempt to takeover EVCI by a hostile tender offer. Regulatory preapprovals and conditions that are discussed above in Item 1 under the caption “Government Regulation of Proprietary Schools—Change of Control” must be obtained and satisfied. 40 We are subject to a provision of Delaware law that prohibits a party that has acquired 15% or more of our common stock, without our board’s approval, from causing a business combination (as defined) involving EVCI or its subsidiaries unless approved by our board and two-thirds of our common stock held by our other stockholders. Our Board unanimously approved the terms of the ComVest financing. Those terms allow ComVest to acquire up to approximately 75% of our common stock, without Board’s approval, provided our stockholders approve an increase in our authorized common stock and ComVest is able to satisfy requirements of the DOE, SED, Middle States and ACCSCT if such acquisition of additional common stock results in a change of control of EVCI. ComVest’s ability to vote 19.9% of our common stock, managements’ ability to vote an additional approximately 3% of our common stock and ComVest’s ability to declare a default on EVCI’s secured subordinated indebtedness to it if stockholders do not approve an increase in our authorized common stock, increases substantially the likelihood that ComVest will be able to obtain the Share Authorization and gain control of EVCI at a future time, provided it receives the requisite approvals from the regulators and accreditors of EVCI and/or its subsidiaries. The effects of the classified board provisions of our certificate of incorporation are explained in a risk factor below. Our by-laws prohibit stockholders from calling, or proposing any business at, a special meeting of stockholders. Our by-laws also require a stockholder to give us substantial advance notice of any business to be proposed by the stockholder at an annual meeting, including nominees for election as directors. The loss of the services of key management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and growth. The efforts of Dr. Arol I. Buntzman, chairman of EVCI and chairman and chancellor of Interboro, and Dr. John J. McGrath, chief executive officer and president of EVCI, chief executive officer and vice chairman of Interboro and co-chairman of TCI, and chairman, chief executive officer and president of PSB, are essential to our operations and growth. The loss of the services of Drs. Buntzman or McGrath would materially adversely affect us. We maintain insurance for EVCI’s benefit on the life of Dr. Buntzman in the amount of $2.0 million and on the life of Dr. McGrath in the amount of $1.5 million. We have employment agreements with Drs. Buntzman and McGrath that will be amended, effective upon the closing of the ComVest Financing. Our business and results could materially suffer if we improperly balance or divert resources from our operations to making acquisitions or if we make acquisitions that do not meet our expectations. In the future, when our financial and other resources permit, we expect to seek additional acquisitions, especially accredited colleges. We may choose not to purchase a college after we conduct our due diligence and negotiate terms. Our acquisition of TCI took more than a year to complete as a result of protracted negotiations and due diligence. From this and other experiences, we know that it takes significant time and resources to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates. In retrospect, we may find that the expenditure of time, money and other resources may have been better made to manage existing operations. Furthermore, the quarter in which we decide not to complete an acquisition will be adversely impacted by the expenses incurred on the acquisition. Whereas, if an acquisition is completed, the acquisition expenses are capitalized and become part of the purchase price. 41 If we do make acquisitions, potential hurdles to our successfully integrating the acquisition include: an inability to increase enrollments, particularly if the college has had declining enrollments · possible loss of key employees · an inability to integrate the acquisition because of differences in vision, management style, work ethic or other causes · difficulties in integrating academic, administrative and financial systems, including technology of the acquired company with ours · diversion of our management resources or otherwise stretching our resources too thin · adverse effects on our operating results as a result of lower operating margins of the acquired company · unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities · an inability to fund operations of the acquired company · breaches of representations or warranties by the seller of the acquired company for which we do not have adequate recourse · underestimation of capital needs · failure to develop or implement a viable business plan, including with respect to managing Title IV loans that are needed to support tuition · an inability to continue a school’s participation in financial aid programs as a result of regulatory change in control provisions · an inability to effectively deal with unions · difficulties in maintaining accreditation and program registration The acquisition of PSB had an adverse effect on our 2005 operating results because of delays and expenses incurred in relocating PSB and obtaining new enrollments at its new location. 42 We cannot predict the impact on our future results of negotiations with TCI’s union to extend the current collective bargaining agreement. TCI’s current agreements with Local 2110 of the United Auto Workers-AFL-CIO, expire in October 2007. These two agreements cover approximately 70% of TCI’s employees. Accordingly, the incremental labor cost to TCI resulting from renegotiating the union contracts cannot be determined unless and until the contracts are renegotiated. Negotiations are not expected to begin for several months. If TCI is unable to conclude contracts that it believes allow it to cost-effectively and efficiently operate TCI, then Local 2110 may call a strike or a work slow down. A strike or slow down could materially impact TCI’s ability to recruit and service its students while it continues and, potentially, for a period after a strike or slow down ends. A protracted strike or slow down would have a material adverse effect on TCI. If the operation of a college’s computer system is adversely affected by computer viruses that are not recognized by available anti-virus software, or for any other reason, its ability to operate could be severely impaired. Interboro’s computers were inoperable for one week at the beginning of the fall 2004 semester as the result of a virus that could not be stopped initially by existing anti-virus software. While Interboro was able to continue to operate during this period without any material adverse effect, this may not be the case in the future. Furthermore, our computers could be affected by other problems in the future that could adversely affect our operations. Terrorist activity, or the threat of it, in the New York Metropolitan area could adversely affect Interboro and TCI. All of Interboro’s and TCI’s sites are located in or near New York City. If New York City is again a target or threatened target of terrorists, Interboro’s and TCI’s operations, enrollments and retention rates could be adversely impacted. Interboro’s inability to foster and maintain relationships with community organizations in the communities where its college sites are located could adversely affect those sites. A college site may require the support of the community-based organizations that serve the minority populace from which the site seeks to recruit and retain economically disadvantaged students. Local politics and rivalries can jeopardize Interboro’s relationships with these organizations. Changes in our relationships with community-based organizations or other events beyond Interboro’s control might adversely affect the operations and growth of an existing site. The change in ownership of our common stock as the result of the ComVest Financing will substantially limit the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards. Regulations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code govern the determination of whether one or more changes of ownership of EVCI’s common stock will result in limitations on EVCI’s ability to offset taxable income against its approximately $30.0 million of available net operating loss carryforwards. Sales of EVCI’s common stock by EVCI and persons defined as 5% holders under Section 382 regulations must be monitored by us so we can determine whether ownership changes have occurred that result in limitations on our net operating losses (NOL) utilization. We currently do not have any 5% holders and, therefore, the ComVest Financing does not constitute a change of control under Section 382. If the Share Authorization is approved, a change of control under Section 382 would be likely to occur. The resulting limitation on the utilization of our available net operating loss carryforwards would depend on EVCI’s market value and other factors. 43 Actual or potential future sales of shares of our common stock by management could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock from time to time by management may cause the marketplace to think the seller is not confident about our prospects. This may be so even if the reason is otherwise and is stated publicly. A rise of our stock price increases the likelihood that directors and officers will sell shares of our common stock. Our share price has ranged greatly since we went public and may be very volatile in the future. Since our public offering in February 1999, the market price of our common stock has ranged between $0.26 and $40.94. Our share price rose to a high of $11.05 the day of our press release reporting our 2004 preliminary results and subsequently declined to $7.70 within a week after our press release reporting our spring 2005 record enrollment growth. Following our announcement, on October 19, 2005, of our receipt of the Draft Report and an ongoing internal investigation, our stock price declined from $5.53 to $2.45 by October 20, 2005. Our common stock has been trading below $1.00 since June 2006. Our share price also could be affected by a number of other factors, including: · exceeding or not meeting expectations for our semester enrollment numbers and our quarterly or yearly operating results · regulatory developments that affect our cash flow or ability to open or expand sites · an ongoing Pell program review or a TAP audit · allegations, even if untrue, that a college failed to comply with regulations relating to TAP or Title IV, its accreditation by the Board of Regents or corporate compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley or other securities laws · exceeding or not meeting expectations for our semester enrollment numbers and our quarterly or yearly operating results · trading by investors that are more interested in quarterly versus long-term results · changes in securities analysts’ expectations as to our future performance 44 · adverse media coverage of our colleges or other for profit-schools owned by public companies · increased competition in our target market · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies, including as a result of fraud allegations or Congressional investigations relating to their operations · general stock market or economic conditions, including as a result of uncertainty about, or the occurrence of, war or terrorism · sales of our stock by our management or others pursuant to a prospectus or otherwise · acquisitions of other colleges · additional financings Furthermore, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. Our classified board limits stockholder voting for election and removal of directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. The directors in each class are elected for three-year terms when their class stands for election at a stockholders meeting. This staggering of director terms protects directors from being removed from office by anyone engaged in a proxy contest for control of the board and dilutes the ability of stockholders to influence corporate governance policies. Furthermore, our directors can only be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of 66 2/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors. The effect of these provisions is to make it difficult for any stockholder to take control of our board of directors in a proxy contest that is not waged with respect to two of our annual stockholder meetings. Indemnification and limitation of liability of our officers and directors may insulate them from accountability to stockholders at substantial cost to us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions whereby our officers and directors are to be indemnified against liabilities to the fullest extent permissible under Delaware law. Our certificate of incorporation also limits a director's liability for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, including gross negligence. In addition, we have agreed to advance the legal expenses of our officers and directors who are required to defend against claims. These provisions and agreements may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of suits against directors and officers even though such suits, if successful, might benefit EVCI and its stockholders. Furthermore, we may be adversely affected by paying the cost of settlement and damage awards against directors and officers. 45 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable Item 