Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future. We experienced net losses of $75.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, $24.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, $6.1 million and $43.1 million (excluding reorganization items, net) for the five months ended December 31, 2004 and the seven months ended July 31, 2004, respectively, $597.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $664.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Although we had net income of $30.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, we may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis, or at all. Our strategic objectives depend, in part, on our ability to build out and launch networks associated with newly acquired FCC licenses, including the licenses that we and Denali License acquired in Auction #66, and we will experience higher operating expenses as we build out and after we launch our service in these new markets. If we fail to achieve consistent profitability, that failure could have a negative effect on our financial condition. We May Not Be Successful in Increasing Our Customer Base Which Would Negatively Affect Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook. Our growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis has varied substantially in the past. We believe that this uneven growth generally reflects seasonal trends in customer activity, promotional activity, competition in the wireless telecommunications market, our pace of new market launches, and varying national economic conditions. Our current business plans assume that we will increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, our current business plans and financial outlook may be harmed. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By General Economic Conditions; If We Experience Low Rates of Customer Acquisition or High Rates of Customer Turnover, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease. Our business could be adversely affected in a number of ways by general economic conditions, including interest rates, consumer credit conditions, unemployment and other macro-economic factors. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or pass a credit check, our service is available to a broader customer base than that served by many other wireless providers. As a result, during economic downturns or during periods of high gasoline prices, we may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this base for our services and some of our existing customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay than the average industry customer. Recent disruptions in the sub-prime mortgage market may also affect our ability to gain new customers or the ability of our existing customers to pay for their service. In addition, our rate of customer acquisition and turnover may be affected by other factors, including the size of our calling areas, network performance and reliability issues, our handset or service offerings (including the ability of customers to cost-effectively roam onto other wireless networks), customer care concerns, phone number portability, higher deactivation rates among less-tenured customers we gained as a result of our new market launches, and other competitive factors. We have also experienced an increasing trend of current customers upgrading their handset by buying a new phone, activating a new line of service, and letting their existing service lapse, which trend has resulted in a higher churn rate as these customers are counted as having disconnected service but have actually been retained. Our strategies to acquire new customers and address customer turnover may not be successful. A high rate of customer turnover or low rate of new customer acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of customers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Made Significant Investment, and Will Continue to Invest, in Joint Ventures That We Do Not Control. In July 2006, we acquired a 72% non-controlling interest in LCW Wireless, which was awarded a wireless license for the Portland, Oregon market in Auction #58 and to which we contributed, among other things, two wireless licenses in Eugene and Salem, Oregon and related operating assets. In December 2006, we completed the 21 Table of Contents replacement of certain network equipment of a subsidiary of LCW Wireless and, as a result, we now own a 73.3% non-controlling membership interest in LCW Wireless. In July 2006, we acquired an 82.5% non-controlling interest in Denali, an entity which participated in Auction #66. LCW Wireless and Denali acquired their wireless licenses as “very small business” designated entities under FCC regulations. Our participation in these joint ventures is structured as a non-controlling interest in order to comply with FCC rules and regulations. We have agreements with our joint venture partners in LCW Wireless and Denali, and we plan to have similar agreements in connection with any future designated entity joint venture arrangements we may enter into, which are intended to allow us to actively participate to a limited extent in the development of the business through the joint venture. However, these agreements do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of any such joint venture. The FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire controlling interests in such entities during the period that such entities must maintain their eligibility as a designated entity, as defined by the FCC. The entities or persons that control the joint ventures may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, if any of the other members of a joint venture files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to perform its obligations or does not manage the joint venture effectively, we may lose our equity investment in, and any present or future opportunity to acquire the assets (including wireless licenses) of, such entity. The FCC recently implemented rule changes aimed at addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, affirmed these changes on reconsideration and sought comment on further rule changes. In that proceeding, the FCC re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses reap the benefits of the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. While we do not believe that the FCC’s recent rule changes materially affect our current joint ventures with LCW Wireless and Denali, the scope and applicability of these rule changes to such current designated entity structures remain in flux, and parties have already sought further reconsideration or judicial review of these rule changes. In addition, we cannot predict how further rule changes or increased regulatory scrutiny by the FCC flowing from this proceeding will affect our current or future business ventures with designated entities or our participation with such entities in future FCC spectrum auctions. We Face Increasing Competition Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for the Cricket Service. The telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, VoIP service providers and traditional landline service providers. Many of these competitors often have greater name and brand recognition, access to greater amounts of capital and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. Because of their size and bargaining power, our larger competitors may be able to purchase equipment, supplies and services at lower prices than we can. Prior to the launch of a large market in 2006, disruptions by a competitor interfered with our indirect dealer relationships, reducing the number of dealers offering Cricket service during the initial weeks of launch. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, any purchasing advantages our competitors have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide roaming service, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to such carriers’ control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. These competitors may also offer potential customers more features and options in their service plans than those currently provided by Cricket, as well as new technologies and/or alternative delivery plans. Some of our competitors offer rate plans substantially similar to Cricket’s service plans or products that customers may perceive to be similar to Cricket’s service plans in markets in which we offer wireless service. For example, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless have each recently announced flat-rate unlimited service offerings. In addition, Sprint Nextel offers a flat-rate unlimited service offering under its Boost Unlimited brand, which is very similar to the Cricket service. Sprint Nextel has expanded and may further expand its Boost 22 Table of Contents Unlimited service offering into certain markets in which we provide service and could further expand service into other markets in which we provide service or in which we plan to expand, and this service offering may present additional strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications market have also caused other carriers to offer service plans with large bundles of minutes of use at low prices, which are competing with the predictable and unlimited Cricket calling plans. Some competitors also offer prepaid wireless plans that are being advertised heavily to demographic segments in our current markets and in markets in which we may expand that are strongly represented in Cricket’s customer base. For example, T-Mobile has introduced a FlexPay plan which permits customers to pay in advance for its post-pay plans and avoid overage charges, and an internet-based service upgrade which permits wireless customers to make unlimited local and long-distance calls from their home phone in place of a traditional landline phone service. These competitive offerings could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing and increase or maintain our market penetration and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may also face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace, many of whom may have significantly more resources than we do. The FCC is pursuing policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses and spectrum available for the provision of wireless voice and data services in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has adopted rules that allow the partitioning, disaggregation or leasing of PCS and other wireless licenses, and continues to allocate and auction additional spectrum that can be used for wireless services, which may increase the number of our competitors. The FCC has also in recent years allowed satellite operators to free up portions of their spectrum for ancillary terrestrial use, and recently permitted the offering of broadband services over power lines. In addition, the auction and licensing of new spectrum, including the 700 MHz band licenses currently being auctioned by the FCC, may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not technologically or cost effectively be able to offer with the licenses we hold or to which we have access. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. Recent Disruptions in the Financial Markets Could Affect Our Ability to Obtain Debt or Equity Financing On Reasonable Terms (or At All), and Have Other Adverse Effects On Us. We may wish to raise significant capital to finance business expansion activities and our ability to raise debt or equity capital in the public or private markets could be impaired by various factors. For example, U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms (or at all). These events in the credit markets have also had an adverse effect on other financial markets in the U.S., which may make it more difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If we require additional capital to fund or accelerate the pace of any of our business expansion efforts or other strategic activities and were unable to obtain such capital on terms that we found acceptable or at all, we would likely reduce our investments in expansion activities or slow the pace of expansion activities as necessary to match our capital requirements to our available liquidity. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, we maintain investments in commercial paper and other short-term investments, and any volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those investments. We May Be Unable to Obtain the Roaming Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive. We believe that our customers prefer that we offer roaming services that allow them to make calls automatically when they are outside of their Cricket service area. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can 23 Table of Contents offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently have roaming agreements with several other carriers which allow our customers to roam on those carriers’ networks. However, these roaming agreements generally cover voice but not data services and some of these agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. The FCC recently adopted a report and order clarifying that commercial mobile radio service providers are required to provide automatic roaming for voice services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC order, however, does not address roaming for data services nor does it provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice services, and so our ability to obtain roaming services from other carriers at attractive rates remains uncertain. In addition, the FCC order indicates that a host carrier is not required to provide roaming services to another carrier in areas in which that other carrier holds wireless licenses or usage rights that could be used to provide wireless services. Because we and Denali License hold a significant number of spectrum licenses for markets in which service has not yet been launched, we believe that this “in-market” roaming restriction could significantly and adversely affect our ability to receive roaming services in areas where we hold licenses. We and other wireless carriers have filed a petition with the FCC, asking that it reconsider this in-market exception to its roaming order. However, we can provide no assurances as to whether the FCC will reconsider this exception or the timeframe in which it might do so. In light of the current FCC order, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to provide roaming services for our customers across the nation or that we will be able to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. We may be unable to enter into or maintain roaming arrangements for voice services at reasonable rates, including in areas in which we hold wireless licenses or have usage rights but have not yet constructed wireless facilities, and we may be unable to secure roaming arrangements for our data services. Our inability to obtain these roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Are a Participant in Auctions #73 and #76, Which May Restrict Certain Business and Commercial Arrangements That We May Enter Into. We are a participant in Auctions #73 and #76, which commenced on January 24, 2008. Our participation in these auctions may require that we raise additional capital through a combination of additional debt and/or equity financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any such additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We intend to focus in the auctions on those areas that we believe present attractive growth prospects for our service offering based on an analysis of demographic, economic and other factors and intend to be financially disciplined with respect to prices we are willing to pay for any such licenses. We cannot, however, assure you that our bidding strategy will be successful in the auctions or that spectrum in the auctions that meets our internally developed criteria will be available to us at acceptable prices. In addition, because we are a participant in these auctions, applicable FCC rules restrict us from engaging in certain business communications that we may desire to enter into with other auction applicants or their affiliates. For example, the FCC has indicated that discussions with other carriers regarding roaming agreements, the partitioning of markets or the disaggregation of spectrum, or the acquisition of licenses or licensees, may implicate the anti-collusion rules if both parties to the discussions are competing applicants in the auctions and, in the course of the discussions, the parties exchange information pertaining to or affecting their bids, bidding strategy or the post-auction market structure. These anti-collusion restrictions may affect the normal conduct of our business by inhibiting discussions and the conclusion of beneficial transactions with other carriers during the auction process, which could last three to six months, or more. We Have Restated Our Prior Consolidated Financial Statements, Which Has Led to Additional Risks and Uncertainties, Including Shareholder Litigation. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended 24 Table of Contents December 31, 2006 filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007, we have restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 (including interim periods therein), for the period from August 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004, and for the period from January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004. In addition, we have restated our condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2007. The determination to restate these consolidated financial statements and quarterly condensed consolidated financial statements was made by Leap’s Audit Committee upon management’s recommendation following the identification of errors related to (i) the timing of recognition of certain service revenues prior to or subsequent to the period in which they were earned, (ii) the recognition of service revenues for certain customers that voluntarily disconnected service, (iii) the classification of certain components of service revenues, equipment revenues and operating expenses and (iv) the determination of a tax valuation allowance during the second quarter of 2007. As a result of these events, we have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. In particular, three shareholder derivative actions have been filed, and we have also recently been named in a number of alleged securities class action lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits may make additional claims, expand existing claims and/or expand the time periods covered by the complaints. Other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims based on the restatement. We may incur substantial defense costs with respect to these claims, regardless of their outcome. Likewise, these claims might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs. Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected If Our Internal Controls Are Not Effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report, our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective at the reasonable assurance level as of December 31, 2007. Currently, our CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson, is also serving as acting CFO. The material weakness we have identified in our internal control over financial reporting related to the design of controls over the preparation and review of the account reconciliations and analysis of revenues, cost of revenue and deferred revenues, and ineffective testing of changes made to our revenue and billing systems in connection with the introduction or modification of service offerings. We have taken and are taking actions to remediate this material weakness. In addition, management has developed and presented to the Audit Committee a plan and timetable for the implementation of remediation measures (to the extent not already implemented), and the committee intends to monitor such implementation. We believe that these actions will remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and strengthen our internal control over financial reporting. We previously reported that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2007. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures. Although we believe we are taking appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap’s common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to 25 Table of Contents obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our Primary Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term. A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers service plans that allow unlimited calls from within a Cricket calling area for a flat monthly rate without entering into a fixed-term contract or passing a credit check. However, unlike national wireless carriers, we do not currently provide ubiquitous coverage across the U.S. or all major metropolitan centers, and instead have a smaller network footprint covering only the principal population centers of our various markets. This strategy may not prove to be successful in the long term. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have been unsuccessful. From time to time, we also evaluate our service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may modify, change, adjust or discontinue our service offerings or offer new services. We cannot assure you that these service offerings will be successful or prove to be profitable. We Expect to Incur Substantial Costs in Connection With the Build-Out of Our New Markets, and Any Delays or Cost Increases in the Build-Out of Our New Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend in part on the successful, timely and cost-effective build-out of the networks associated with newly acquired FCC licenses, including the licenses that we and Denali License acquired in Auction #66 and any licenses that we may acquire in Auctions #73 or #76 or from third parties. Large-scale construction projects for the build-out of our new markets will require significant capital expenditures and may suffer cost overruns. In addition, we expect to incur higher operating expenses as our existing business grows and as we build out and after we launch service in new markets. Any such significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses, including in connection with the build-out and launch of markets for the licenses that we and Denali License acquired in Auction #66, would decrease earnings, OIBDA and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs. If we are unable to fund the build-out of these new markets with our existing cash and our cash generated from operations, we may be required to raise additional equity capital or incur further indebtedness, which we cannot guarantee would be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the build-out of the networks may be delayed or adversely affected by a variety of factors, uncertainties and contingencies, such as natural disasters, difficulties in obtaining zoning permits or other regulatory approvals, our relationships with our joint venture partners, and the timely performance by third parties of their contractual obligations to construct portions of the networks. The AWS spectrum that was auctioned in Auction #66 currently is used by U.S. federal government and/or incumbent commercial licensees. FCC rules require winning bidders to avoid interfering with these existing users or to clear the incumbent users from the spectrum through specified relocation procedures. We and Denali License considered the estimated cost and time frame required to clear the spectrum which we and Denali License purchased in Auction #66 while placing bids in the auction. However, the actual cost of clearing the spectrum may exceed our estimated costs. Furthermore, delays in the provision of federal funds to relocate government users, or difficulties in negotiating with incumbent commercial licensees, may extend the date by which the auctioned spectrum can be cleared of existing operations, and thus may also delay the date on which we can launch commercial services using such licensed spectrum. In addition, certain existing government operations are using the spectrum for classified purposes. Although the government has agreed to clear that spectrum to allow the holders to utilize their AWS licenses in the affected areas, the government is only providing limited information to spectrum holders about these classified uses which creates additional uncertainty about the time at which such spectrum will be available for commercial use. Several federal government agencies have cleared or announced plans to promptly clear spectrum covered by licenses we and Denali License purchased in Auction #66. Other agencies, however, have not yet finalized plans to relocate their use to alternative spectrum. If these agencies do not relocate to alternative spectrum within the next several months, their continued use of the spectrum covered by licenses we and Denali License purchased in Auction #66 could delay the launch of certain markets, and as a result, could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. Although our vendors have announced their intention to manufacture and supply handsets that operate in the AWS spectrum bands, these handsets are not yet commercially available. If handsets for the AWS spectrum do not 26 Table of Contents become commercially available on a timely basis in the future by our suppliers, our proposed launches of new Auction #66 markets could be delayed, which would negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. Any significant increase in our expected capital expenditures in connection with the build-out and launch of Auction #66 licenses could negatively impact our earnings and free cash flow for those periods in which we incur such capital expenditures. Any failure to complete the build-out of our new markets on budget or on time could delay the implementation of our clustering and strategic expansion strategies, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If We Are Unable to Manage Our Planned Growth, Our Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted. We have experienced substantial growth in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future in our existing and new markets. The management of such growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs and handset inventories, diligent management of our network infrastructure and its growth, increased spending associated with marketing activities and acquisition of new customers, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. In addition, continued growth will eventually require the expansion of our billing, customer care and sales systems and platforms, which will require additional capital expenditures and may divert the time and attention of management personnel who oversee any such expansion. Furthermore, the implementation of any such systems or platforms, including the transition to such systems or platforms from our existing infrastructure, could result in unpredictable technological or other difficulties. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development, to enhance our processes and management systems or to timely and adequately resolve any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations. We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, our total outstanding indebtedness under our Credit Agreement was $886.5 million, and we also had a $200 million undrawn revolving credit facility (which forms part of our senior secured credit facility). Indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate, but we have entered into interest rate swap agreements with respect to $355 million of our indebtedness. We have also issued $1,100 million in unsecured senior notes due 2014. In addition, looking forward we may raise significant capital to finance business expansion activities, which could consist of debt financing from the public and/or private capital markets. Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, building out our network, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. 27 Table of Contents Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We May Incur Substantially More Indebtedness. This Could Further Increase The Risks Associated With Our Leverage. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future over time, as market conditions permit, to enable us to take advantage of business expansion activities. The terms of our senior unsecured indenture permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. In addition, our Credit Agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness under various financial ratio tests. If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Furthermore, the subsequent build-out of the networks covered by the licenses we acquired in Auction #66 may significantly reduce our free cash flow, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness. To Service Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, or at all. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures (including expenditures to build out our newly acquired wireless licenses), attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including under our senior unsecured indenture or our Credit Agreement, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Covenants in Our Indenture and Credit Agreement and Other Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter Into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our senior unsecured indenture and Credit Agreement contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and the subsidiary guarantors to make distributions or other payments to our investors or creditors until we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, the indenture and our Credit Agreement include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; • sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; 28 Table of Contents • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. Under our Credit Agreement, we must also comply with, among other things, financial covenants with respect to a maximum consolidated senior secured leverage ratio and, if a revolving credit loan or uncollateralized letter of credit is outstanding or requested, with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. The restrictions in our Credit Agreement could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar restrictions. Our Credit Agreement also prohibits the occurrence of a change of control, which includes the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 35% or more of Leap’s equity securities, a change in a majority of the members of Leap’s board of directors that is not approved by the board and the occurrence of a “change of control” under any of our other credit instruments. Under our indenture, if a “change of control” occurs (which includes the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 35% or more of Leap’s equity securities, a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Leap and its restricted subsidiaries and a change in a majority of the members of Leap’s board of directors that is not approved by the board), each holder of the notes may require Cricket to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If we default under our indenture or our Credit Agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. Our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 constituted a default under our Credit Agreement, and the restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial information (as described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2006 filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007) may have constituted a default under our Credit Agreement. Although we were able to obtain limited waivers under our Credit Agreement with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a waiver in the future should a default occur. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under our indenture or our Credit Agreement, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rises in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 28% of our debt was variable rate debt, after considering the effect of our interest rate swap agreements. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on our variable rate debt, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. A Majority of Our Assets Consists of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As of December 31, 2007, 52.7% of our assets consisted of goodwill and other intangibles, including wireless licenses. The value of our assets, and in particular, our intangible assets, will depend on market conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. By their nature, our intangible assets may not have a readily ascertainable market value or may not be saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for us to sell, or for any remedies to be exercised by our lenders with respect to, our wireless licenses, and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses. 29 Table of Contents The Wireless Industry is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change, and We May Lose Customers If We Fail to Keep Up With These Changes. The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. In the future, competitors may seek to provide competing wireless telecommunications service through the use of developing technologies such as Wi-Fi, WiMax, and VoIP. The cost of implementing or competing against future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. For example, we have expended a substantial amount of capital to upgrade our network with EvDO technology to offer advanced data services. However, if such upgrades, technologies or services do not become commercially acceptable, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will be widespread demand for advanced data services or that this demand will develop at a level that will allow us to earn a reasonable return on our investment. In addition, CDMA2000 infrastructure networks could become less popular in the future, which could raise the cost to us of equipment and handsets that use that technology relative to the cost of handsets and equipment that utilize other technologies. The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We have experienced higher than normal employee turnover in the past, in part because of our bankruptcy, including turnover of individuals at the most senior management levels. In addition, our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson. During September 2007, Amin Khalifa resigned as our executive vice president and CFO and the board of directors appointed Mr. Hutcheson to serve as acting CFO until we find a successor to Mr. Khalifa. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance. The loss of key individuals in the future may have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively manage and operate our business. Risks Associated With Wireless Handsets Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture handsets or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their handsets to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the handsets we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with handsets to protect us from direct losses associated with product liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective. Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that 30 Table of Contents have overheated. Malfunctions have caused at least one major handset manufacturer to recall certain batteries used in its handsets, including batteries in a handset sold by Cricket and other wireless providers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions and defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services. In addition, if one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by the manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that has been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service. We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products we purchase. However, some suppliers, including software suppliers, are the exclusive sources of their specific products. Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System Failures Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power loss, floods, windstorms, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing, or similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities, system failures, hardware or software failures, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause network service interruptions. In addition, we are in the process of upgrading some of our internal network systems, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or interruptions while we transition our data and existing systems onto our new systems. Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. To accommodate expected growth in our business, management has been considering replacing our customer billing and activation system, which we license from a third party. The vendor who licenses the software to us and provides certain billing services to us has a contract with us through 2010. The vendor has developed a new billing product and has introduced that product in a limited number of markets operated by another wireless carrier. The vendor was working to adapt the new billing product for our use, but we are now unlikely to use this product because the vendor has announced that it intends to exit the billing business. The vendor is currently exploring alternative exit strategies, including selling its business to a third party. If the vendor or its successor does not provide us with an improved billing system in the future, we might choose to terminate our contract for convenience and purchase a billing system from a different vendor if we believed it was necessary to do so to meet the requirements of our business. In such an event, we may owe substantial termination fees. 31 Table of Contents We May Not Be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which only offer limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide competitive advantages to us. For example, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Patent Litigation” for a description of our patent litigation with MetroPCS Communications, Inc., or MetroPCS, and other affiliated entities. We intend to vigorously defend against the matters brought by the MetroPCS entities. Due to the complex nature of the legal and factual issues involved, however, the outcome of these matters is not presently determinable. If the MetroPCS entities were to prevail in any of these matters, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to these outstanding matters, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. Our inability to secure trademark or service mark protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and Our Suppliers May Be Subject to Claims of Infringement Regarding Telecommunications Technologies That Are Protected By Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers from time to time based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services that we or they use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks. For example, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Patent Litigation” for a description of certain patent infringement lawsuits that have been brought against us. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to protect us against possible infringement claims, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with infringement claims. Our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that could prevent or make it more expensive for them to supply us with the products and services we require to run our business. For example, we purchase certain CDMA handsets that incorporate EvDO chipsets manufactured by Qualcomm Incorporated, or Qualcomm, which are the subject of patent infringement actions brought by Broadcom Corporation in separate proceedings before the United States International Trade Commission, or ITC, and the United States District Court for the Central District of California. Both the ITC and District Court have issued orders in their proceedings that prevent or limit Qualcomm’s ability, subject to various conditions and timelines, to sell, import or support the infringing chips, and restrict third parties from importing the handsets that incorporate the chips. Although these orders are currently on appeal and the ITC order is stayed as to certain third parties (including most of our handset suppliers), these patent infringement actions could have the effect of slowing or limiting our ability to introduce and offer EvDO handsets and devices to our customers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim against us or a supplier was valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or requiring us to redesign our business 32 Table of Contents operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, infringement claims against our suppliers could also require us to purchase products and services at higher prices or from different suppliers and could adversely affect our business by delaying our ability to offer certain products and services to our customers. Regulation by Government Agencies May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. For example, the FCC recently released an order implementing certain recommendations of an independent panel reviewing the impact of Hurricane Katrina on communications networks, which requires that wireless carriers provide emergency back-up power sources for their equipment and facilities, including up to 24 hours of emergency power for mobile switch offices and up to eight hours for cell site locations. As a result, in order for us to comply with the new requirements should they become effective, we may need to purchase additional equipment, obtain additional state and local permits, authorizations and approvals or incur additional operating expenses, and such costs could be material. In addition, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Communications Act from which the FCC obtains its authority, will not be further amended in a manner that could be adverse to us. The FCC recently implemented rule changes and sought comment on further rule changes focused on addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, which gives certain categories of small businesses preferential treatment in FCC spectrum auctions based on size. In that proceeding, the FCC has re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes or increased regulatory scrutiny that may follow from this proceeding will affect our current or future business ventures or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. Our operations are subject to various other regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. If Call Volume Under Our Cricket Service Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Competitive Position. Cricket customers generally use their handsets for an average of approximately 1,450 minutes per month, and some markets experience substantially higher call volumes. Our Cricket service plans bundle certain features, long distance and unlimited service in Cricket calling areas for a fixed monthly fee to more effectively compete with other telecommunications providers. If customers exceed expected usage, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high call volume, and we consistently assess and try to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. However, if future wireless use by Cricket customers exceeds the capacity of our network, service quality may 33 Table of Contents suffer. We may be forced to raise the price of Cricket service to reduce volume or otherwise limit the number of new customers, or incur substantial capital expenditures to improve network capacity. We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or On a Timely Basis. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed fee, our customers’ average minutes of use per month is substantially above the U.S. wireless customer average. We intend to meet this demand by utilizing spectrally efficient technologies. Despite our recent spectrum purchases, there may come a point where we need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain an acceptable grade of service or provide new services to meet increasing customer demands. We also intend to acquire additional spectrum in order to enter new strategic markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC on a timely basis. If such additional spectrum is not available to us when required or at a reasonable cost, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Wireless Licenses are Subject to Renewal, and May Be Revoked in the Event that We Violate Applicable Laws. Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10-year or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our PCS wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that timely files a renewal application, has provided “substantial service” during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. The FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Wireless Licenses Could Result in Future Impairment Charges. As of December 31, 2007, the carrying value of our wireless licenses and those of Denali License and LCW License was approximately $1.9 billion. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we recorded impairment charges of $1.0 million, $7.9 million and $12.0 million, respectively. The market values of wireless licenses have varied dramatically over the last several years, and may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings; • a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or • market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in FCC auctions. In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has recently auctioned an additional 90 MHz of spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in Auction #66, is currently auctioning additional spectrum in the 700 MHz band in Auctions #73 and #76 and has announced that it intends to auction additional spectrum in the 2.5 GHz band. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We conduct our annual tests for impairment of our wireless licenses during the third quarter of each year. Estimates 34 Table of Contents of the fair value of our wireless licenses are based primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions, pricing trends among historical wireless license transactions, our spectrum holdings within a given market relative to other carriers’ holdings and qualitative demographic and economic information concerning the areas that comprise our markets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet. Declines in Our Operating Performance Could Ultimately Result in an Impairment of Our Indefinite-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill, or Our Long-Lived Assets, Including Property and Equipment. We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. If we do not achieve our planned operating results, this may ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our goodwill or wireless licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet. We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party. Similarly, when a customer of another carrier calls one of our customers, that carrier is required to pay us. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. The FCC is actively considering possible regulatory approaches to address this situation but we cannot assure you that the FCC rulings will be beneficial to us. An adverse ruling or FCC inaction could result in carriers successfully collecting higher intercarrier fees from us, which could adversely affect our business. The FCC also is considering making various significant changes to the intercarrier compensation scheme to which we are subject. We cannot predict with any certainty the likely outcome of this FCC proceeding. Some of the alternatives that are under active consideration by the FCC could severely increase the interconnection costs we pay. If we are unable to cost-effectively provide our products and services to customers, our competitive position and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Will Decrease. Our operating costs can increase substantially as a result of customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the types of fraud we have identified. However, if our strategies are not successful in detecting and controlling fraud in the future, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment. The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of Leap common stock has been, and is likely to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of Leap common stock may include, among other things: • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; 35 Table of Contents • entry of new competitors into our markets; • significant developments with respect to our intellectual property or related litigation; • the announcements and bidding of auctions for new spectrum; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock; • any default under our Credit Agreement or our indenture because of a covenant breach or otherwise; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. We May Elect To Raise Additional Equity Capital Which May Dilute Existing Stockholders. We may raise significant capital to finance business expansion activities, which could consist of debt and/or equity financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To the extent that we elect to raise equity capital, this financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap’s common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. If we required additional financing in the capital markets to take advantage of business expansion activities or to accelerate our pace of new market launches and could not obtain such financing on terms we found acceptable, we would likely reduce our investment in expansion activities or slow the pace of expansion activities to match our capital requirements to our available liquidity. Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted Upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect The Market Price of Leap’s Common Stock. As of February 22, 2008, 68,713,151 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 7,426,849 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 6,094,410 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of awards granted or available for grant under Leap’s 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended, 732,439 shares reserved for issuance under Leap’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 600,000 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. In addition, Leap has reserved five percent of its outstanding shares, which represented 3,435,658 shares of common stock as of February 22, 2008, for potential issuance to CSM upon the exercise of CSM’s option to put its entire equity interest in LCW Wireless to Cricket. Under the amended and restated limited liability company agreement with CSM and WLPCS, the purchase price for CSM’s equity interest is calculated on a pro rata basis using either the appraised value of LCW Wireless or a multiple of Leap’s enterprise value divided by its adjusted EBITDA and applied to LCW Wireless’ adjusted EBITDA to impute an enterprise value and equity value for LCW Wireless. Cricket may satisfy the put price either in cash or in Leap common stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by Cricket in its discretion. However, the covenants in the Credit Agreement do not permit Cricket to satisfy any substantial portion of its put obligations to CSM in cash. If Cricket elects to satisfy its put obligations to CSM with Leap common stock, the obligations of the parties are conditioned upon the block of Leap common stock issuable to CSM not constituting more than five percent of Leap’s outstanding common stock at the time of issuance. Dilution of the outstanding number of shares of Leap’s common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Leap’s common stock. We have agreed to prepare and file a resale shelf registration statement for any shares of Leap common stock issued to CSM in connection with the put, and to use our reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC. In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our stock option, restricted stock and deferred stock unit plan and under our employee stock purchase plan. When we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap’s common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. 36 Table of Contents Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs, and Our Ownership Is Highly Concentrated. Sales of a Significant Number of Shares by Large Stockholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 23.1% of Leap common stock as of February 22, 2008. Moreover, our four largest stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 58.1% of Leap common stock as of February 22, 2008. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap’s assets and other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Our resale shelf registration statement, as amended, registers for resale 11,755,806 shares of Leap common stock held by entities affiliated with one of our directors, or approximately 17.1% of Leap’s outstanding common stock. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares, or any of the other shares held by our other large stockholders and entities affiliated with them, may have on the then-prevailing market price of Leap common stock. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales could also impede our ability to raise future capital. Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws or Delaware Law, and Provisions in Our Credit Agreement and Indenture, Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress The Trading Price of Our Common Stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of Leap common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, our Credit Agreement also prohibits the occurrence of a change of control and, under our indenture, if a “change of control” occurs, each holder of the notes may require Cricket to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 37 Table of Contents 