ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. Failure to manage the business to consistent profitability without Allegra and other royalties will have a significant impact on operations and stock value. The recurring royalties we receive on the sales of Allegra/Telfast have historically provided a material portion of our revenue, earnings and operating cash flows. Recently, we have begun to receive royalties on the sales of other products. We continue to develop our business and manage our operating costs in order to be in a position to maintain a business that can operate profitably as these royalties decrease significantly in 2015 and then cease upon expiration of the underlying patents. Recurring royalties have significantly higher margins than do our other business activities, resulting in the need to replace a significant amount of margin in order to achieve the same level of profitability. We have added revenue generating businesses that are expected to produce consistent and growing revenue and profit over time and have taken certain cost cutting steps in order to right size the business operations to support the profitability that is achievable from our core contract research and manufacturing businesses. In the future, we may need to take additional cost cutting measures if our revenues do not continue to increase or are not profitable enough to support our operations. In addition, if we are not able to increase operating revenue and decrease operating costs in order to replace Allegra and other royalty income, there will be a material and adverse impact on our business, including negative impacts on our operating cash flow, access to capital and ability to implement required capital improvements to our facilities. If we fail to meet strict regulatory requirements, we could be required to pay fines or even close our facilities. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients and drug product in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the FDA. The FDA conducts unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us or, if the FDA determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by the FDA or other applicable regulatory bodies could have a material adverse effect on our operations. If we are not successful in selecting and integrating the businesses and technologies we acquire, or in managing our current and future divestitures, our business may suffer. During the past few years, we have expanded our business through acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire businesses and technologies and form strategic alliances. However, businesses and technologies may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable. We risk spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition or alliance partners, but not completing transactions. Even if completed, acquisitions and alliances involve numerous risks which may include: ·difficulties and expenses incurred in assimilating and integrating operations, services, products or technologies; ·challenges with identifying, successfully acquiring, developing and operating new businesses, including those which may be materially different from our existing businesses and which may require the development or acquisition of new internal capabilities and expertise; ·diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; ·potential losses resulting from undiscovered liabilities of acquired companies that are not covered by the indemnification we may obtain from the seller; ·acquisitions could be dilutive to earnings, or in the event of acquisitions made through the issuance of our common stock to the shareholders of the acquired company, dilutive to the percentage of ownership of our existing shareholders; ·loss of key employees; 13 ·risks of not being able to overcome differences in foreign business practices, customs and importation regulations, language and other cultural barriers in connection with the acquisition of foreign companies; ·risks that disagreements or disputes with prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in litigation expenses and diversion of our management's attention; ·integration and support of preexisting supplier, distribution and customer relationships; ·the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; ·difficulties in achieving business and financial success including spending time and money investigating and negotiating with potential targets that may not be completed; and ·new technologies and products may be developed which cause businesses or assets we acquire to become less valuable. In the event that an acquired business or technology or an alliance does not meet our expectations, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Some of the same risks exist when we decide to exit or sell a business, site, or product line. In addition, divestitures could involve additional risks, including the following: ·difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; and ·the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture. We continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses and operating facilities. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, site or product line, and as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture. We may experience disruptions in or the inability to source raw materials to support our production processes or to deliver goods to our customers. We rely on independent suppliers for key raw materials, consisting primarily of various chemicals. We generally use raw materials available from more than one source and do not enter into long-term contracts for such materials. We could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice, which could lead to raw materials being purchased on less favorable terms than we have with our regular supplier. Additionally, we rely on various third-party delivery services to transport both goods from our vendors and finished products to our customers. A disruption in our ability to source or transport materials could delay or halt production and delivery of certain of our products thereby adversely impacting our ability to market and sell such products and our ability to compete. Our sales forecast and/or revenue projections may not be accurate. We use a backlog system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of proposals, including the date when they estimate a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential size of the order. We aggregate these estimates on a quarterly basis in order to generate a sales backlog. While this process provides us with some guidance in business planning and forecasting, it is based on estimates only and is therefore subject to risks and uncertainties. We believe our aggregate backlog as of any date is not necessarily a meaningful indicator of our future results for a variety of reasons. First, contracts vary in duration, and as such the timing and amount of revenues recognized from backlog can vary from period to period. Second, our manufacturing and services contracts are of a nature that a customer may, at its option, cancel or delay the timing of delivery, which would change our projections concerning the timing and extent to which revenue may be recognized. In addition, the value of our services contracts that are conducted on a time and materials or full-time equivalent basis are based on estimates, from which actual revenue generated could vary. Finally, there is no assurance that projects included in backlog will not be terminated or delayed at any time by customers or regulatory authorities. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to realize all or most of the net revenues included in backlog or estimate the portion to be filled in the current year. Any variation in the conversion of the backlog into revenue or the backlog itself could cause us to improperly plan or budget and thereby adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 14 We derive a significant percentage of our revenue from a small group of customers. We may lose one or more of our major customers. During the year ended December 31, 2014, revenues from GE Healthcare represented approximately 13% of our contract revenue, or 11% of our total revenue. During the year ended December 31, 2013, revenues from our largest customer represented approximately 15% of our contract revenue, or 13% of our total revenue. Our existing agreement with this customer extends through 2016. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2014 sales to another customer represented approximately 10% of our contract revenue, or 9% of our total revenue. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2013, we provided services to three other major customers, who combined, represent approximately 19% of our contract revenues or 16% of our total revenue. In total, our five largest customers in 2014 represented approximately 34% of our contract revenue and 31% of our total revenue. These customers, along with most of our other customers, typically may cancel their contracts with 30 days’ to two-years’ prior notice, depending on the size of the contract, for a variety of reasons, some of which are beyond our control. If any one of our major customers cancels its contract with us, our contract revenues may materially decrease. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. We may not be able to generate enough cash flow from our operations to service our indebtedness, we may fail to meet our current credit facility’s financial covenants and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could each adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a significant amount of indebtedness, including $150.0 million in aggregate principal with additional accrued interest under our Convertible Senior Notes due 2018 and $75.0 million in aggregate principal under our revolving line of credit with three banks. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures, research and development efforts, working capital, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to pay our indebtedness, including payments of principal upon conversion of outstanding convertible notes or on their maturity or in connection with a transaction involving us that constitutes a fundamental change under the indenture governing the convertible notes, or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the convertible notes, on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital expenditures, seek to raise additional capital or take other similar actions. We may not be able to execute any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial condition at the time, the restrictions in the instruments governing our indebtedness and other factors, including market conditions. In addition, in the event of a default under the convertible notes, the holders and/or the trustee under the indentures governing the convertible notes may accelerate the payment obligations under the convertible notes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would likely have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our significant indebtedness, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments, could have other important consequences. For example, it could: ·make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in general U.S. and worldwide economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; ·limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; ·place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who have less debt; and ·limit our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other purposes. 15 Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if we incur additional indebtedness, the risks related to our business and our ability to service or repay our indebtedness would increase. In addition, under our Convertible Senior Notes due 2018, we are required to offer to repurchase the convertible notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, which could include, among other things, any acquisition of us for consideration other than publicly traded securities. The repurchase price must be paid in cash, and this obligation may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company that would otherwise be beneficial to our security holders. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of our services. We depend on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that use our services for a large portion of our revenues. Although there has been a trend among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource drug research and development functions, this trend may not continue. We have experienced increasing pressure on the part of our customers to reduce expenses, including the use of our services, as a result of negative economic trends generally and more specifically in the pharmaceutical industry. We may be adversely affected in future periods as a result of general economic and/or pharmaceutical industry downturns which may result in a diminished availability of liquidity in the marketplace. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies discontinue or decrease their usage of our services, including as a result of a slowdown in the overall global economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may decrease or not grow at historical rates. We face increased competition. We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We also experience significant competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures, primarily those in China and other Asian countries. While we operate in certain lower relative cost jurisdictions, such as India and Singapore, we do not have operations in China. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. We may be required to record additional long-lived asset impairment charges. We review long-lived assets, including goodwill, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable based on the existence of certain triggering events. Factors we consider important which could result in long-lived asset impairment include the following: ·a significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset group is being used; ·a significant change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset group; and ·a significant decrease in the market value of assets. In 2014, we recorded non-cash fixed asset charges of $5,392 in our DDS segment primarily related to our Syracuse, NY and Singapore facilities. Also in 2014, we recorded $2,443 of intangible asset impairment charges related to certain proprietary drug development programs that we will no longer be pursuing. If long-lived assets are determined to be impaired in the future, we would be required to record a charge to our results of operations. 16 Agreements we have with our employees, customers, consultants and other third parties may not afford adequate protection for our valuable intellectual property, confidential information and other proprietary information. Some of the most valuable assets to the company and its customers include patents. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and licensing opportunities. In an effort to maintain the confidentiality and ownership of our customer’s information, such as trade secrets, proprietary information and other customer confidential information, as well as our own, we require our employees, consultants and advisors to execute confidentiality and proprietary information agreements. However, these agreements may not provide us with adequate protection against improper use or disclosure of confidential information and there may not be adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Furthermore, we may from time to time hire scientific personnel formerly employed by other companies involved in one or more areas similar to the activities we conduct. In some situations, our confidentiality and proprietary information agreements may conflict with, or be subject to, the rights of third parties with whom our employees, consultants or advisors have prior employment or consulting relationships. Although we require our employees and consultants to maintain the confidentiality of all proprietary information of their previous employers, these individuals, or we, may be subject to allegations of trade secret misappropriation or other similar claims as a result of their prior affiliations. Finally, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques causing some technologies that we develop to be patented by other companies. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and techniques may inhibit our ability to compete effectively and our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits we expected. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We could incur significant costs defending such claims and if we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, we may be subject to liability for infringement. To the extent that we are unable to protect confidential customer information, we may encounter material harm to our reputation and to our business. We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate, or we may be subject to fines or other regulatory actions if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Delays in, or failure of, the approval of our customers’ regulatory submissions could impact our revenue and earnings. The successful transition of clinical and preclinical candidates into long term commercial supply agreements is a key component of the Drug Product and API business strategy. If our customers do not receive approval of their FDA regulatory submissions, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings. In addition, the manufacture of controlled substances requires timely approval by the DEA of sufficient controlled substance quota. If we do not receive sufficient DEA quota to meet our customers’ demands, and/or if our customers do not receive sufficient quota to take delivery of and/or formulate the product at their facilities, this could have a significant negative impact on our revenue and earnings. We may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees we need. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the research and efforts of our highly skilled employees, such as our scientists, and their ability to keep pace with changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical firms, biotechnology firms, contract research firms, and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. If we cannot recruit and retain scientists and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to continue our existing services and will not be able to expand the services we offer to our customers. We may lose one or more of our key employees. Our business is highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, including: ·William Marth, our Chief Executive Officer and President; ·Felicia Ladin, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; ·Steven R. Hagen, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Pharmaceuticals; ·Lori M. Henderson, our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary ·Michael Luther, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President, Discovery; ·Brian D. Russell, our Senior Vice President, Human Resources; and 17 ·George Svokos, our Chief Commercial Officer, Senior Vice President, API The loss of any of our key employees, including our scientists, may have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be held liable for harm caused by drugs that we develop and test. We develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. If any of the drugs that we develop, test or manufacture harm people, we may be required to pay damages. Although we carry liability insurance, we may be required to pay damages in excess of the amounts of our insurance coverage. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our manufacturing and research and development processes involve the use of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials and substances. We are subject to Federal, state and local laws and regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of such materials, including but not limited to radioactive compounds and certain waste products. Additionally, we are subject to various laws and regulations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and emissions and wastewater discharges. Although we believe that our activities currently comply with the standards prescribed by such laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from these materials. We may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. In addition, we cannot predict the extent of regulations that might result from any future legislative or administrative actions, therefore we could be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations and these actions could restrict our operations in the future. Such expenses, liabilities or restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We completed an environmental remediation assessment associated with groundwater contamination at our Rensselaer, New York location. This contamination is associated with past practices at the facility prior to 1990, and prior to our investment or ownership of the facility. Ongoing costs associated with the remediation include biannual monitoring and reporting to the State of New York’s Department of Environmental Conservation. Under the remediation plan, we were responsible for payment of monitoring and reporting into 2019. Under a 1999 agreement with the facility’s previous owner, our maximum liability under the remediation is $5.5 million. If the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our facilities. We depend on our laboratories, factories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development, manufacturing and all administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in Albany and Rensselaer, New York, Albuquerque, New Mexico, Grafton, Wisconsin, and Burlington, Massachusetts. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event at any of our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. The potential for terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. 18 Domestic governmental policy changes, including health care reform and budgetary policies could reduce the reimbursement rates pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies receive for drugs they sell, which incorporate some of our products, which in turn, could reduce the demand for or amounts that they have available to retain our services. We depend on contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a majority of our revenues. We therefore depend upon the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to earn enough profit on the drugs they market to devote substantial resources to the research and development of new drugs. Additionally, we rely on our collaborative partners to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our current and potential future products. Continued efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care through various means, could affect our levels of revenues and earnings. In certain foreign markets, pricing and/or profitability of pharmaceutical products are subject to governmental control. Domestically, there have been and may continue to be proposals to implement similar governmental control. Future legislation may limit the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for the drugs they market and cost control initiatives could affect the amounts that third-party payors agree to reimburse for those drugs. There is no assurance that our collaborative partners will be able to obtain acceptable prices for our products which would allow us to sell these products on a competitive and profitable basis. As a result, such laws and initiatives may have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to the research and development of new drugs. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the amount of services that we perform, and therefore our revenues, could be reduced. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in every shareholder’s best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: ·Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire. ·Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. We have renewed a Shareholder Rights Plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of us is made in the future. Under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan, the Board can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Once a shareholder acquires more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock without Board approval (the “acquiring person”), all other shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price less than their then fair market value. These subsequent purchases by other shareholders substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of Common Stock owned by the acquiring person. Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests as shareholders may differ from our other shareholders. As of February 28, 2015, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 10.4% of our outstanding common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile and could experience substantial change. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 19 Because we do not intend to pay dividends, our shareholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of our shareholders’ investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. We may experience significant increases in operational costs beyond our control. Costs for certain items which are needed to run our business, such as energy and certain materials, have the potential to fluctuate. As these cost increases are often dependent on market conditions, and although we do our best to manage these price increases, we may experience increases in our costs due to the volatility of prices and market conditions. Increases in these costs could negatively impact our results of operations to the extent that we are unable to incorporate these increases into the pricing of our goods and services. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our information technology systems and infrastructure. Upgrading and integrating our business systems could result in implementation issues and business disruptions. We rely to a large extent upon sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure, with respect to enterprise resource planning, manufacturing, and the storage of business, financial, intellectual property, and other information essential to the effective operation and management of our business. While we have invested significantly in the operation and protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions, or identify breaches in our systems. Prolonged interruptions or significant breaches could result in a material adverse effect on our operations. We are planning to replace many of our legacy business systems at certain sites worldwide with an enterprise wide, integrated enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system, which may occur at a future date based on value to the business. In general, the process of planning and preparing for these types of integrated, wide-scale implementations is extremely complex and we are required to address a number of challenges including data conversion, system cutover and user training. Problems in any of these areas could cause operational problems during implementation including delayed shipments, missed sales, billing and accounting errors and other operational issues. There have been numerous, well-publicized instances of companies experiencing difficulties with the implementation of ERP systems which resulted in negative business consequences. We are subject to foreign currency risks. Our global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors. If we fail to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial statements. For a further discussion of our foreign currency risks, please see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk”. A reduction or delay in government funding of research and development may adversely affect our business. A portion of our overall revenue is derived either from governmental sources directly, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (“NIH”), or indirectly, from customers whose funding is partially dependent on both the level and timing of funding from government sources. A reduction in government funding for the NIH or other government research agencies could adversely affect our business and our financial results and there is no guarantee that government funding will be directed towards projects and studies that require use of our services. 20 Our business is subject to risks relating to operating internationally. A significant part of our contract revenue is derived from operations outside the U.S. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries, have represented approximately 32%, 40% and 43% of our total contract revenue in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks associated with our international business including: ·foreign currencies we receive for sales and in which we record expenses outside the U.S. could be subject to unfavorable exchange rates with the U.S. dollar and reduce the amount of revenue and cash flow (and increase the amount of expenses) that we recognize and cause fluctuations in reported financial results; ·certain contracts are denominated in currencies other than the currency in which we incur expenses related to those contracts and where expenses are incurred in currencies other than those in which contracts are priced, fluctuations in the relative value of those currencies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; ·general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; ·potential international conflicts, including terrorist acts; ·potential trade restrictions, exchange controls, adverse tax consequences, and legal restrictions on the repatriation of funds into the U.S.; ·difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations, including risks of work stoppages and/or strikes, as well as violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act, and the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions; ·unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ·the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; ·unfavorable labor regulations in foreign jurisdictions; ·potentially negative consequences from changes in or interpretations of US and foreign tax laws and particularly any changes in tax laws affecting any repatriation of profits; ·exposure to business disruption or property damage due to geographically unique natural disasters; ·longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries; and ·import and export licensing requirements. These risks, individually or in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For example, as mentioned above, we are subject to compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws, which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our employees and agents are required to comply with these laws, we cannot be sure that our internal policies and procedures will always protect us from violations of these laws despite our commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics. The occurrence or allegation of these types of risks may adversely affect our business, performance, prospects, value, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Any claims beyond our insurance coverage limits, or that are otherwise not covered by our insurance, may result in substantial costs and a reduction in its available capital resources. We maintain property insurance, employer’s liability insurance, product liability insurance, general liability insurance, business interruption insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, among others. Although we maintain what we believe to be adequate insurance coverage, potential claims including those related to the Albuquerque business interruption event in the third quarter of 2014, may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the future we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage or we may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles and additional risk to our business and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 