ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. The Effects Of The Ongoing Global Economic Slowdown May Continue To Have A Negative Impact On Our Business, Results Of Operations Or Financial Condition. The ongoing global economic slowdown has caused disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy, and declining consumer and business confidence, which has led to decreased levels of consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items such as footwear. These macroeconomic developments have and could continue to negatively impact our business, which depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending in the United States and other parts of the world that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, who are our primary direct customers. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. If the global economic slowdown continues for a significant period or continues to worsen, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We Face Many New Challenges After Entering The Highly Competitive Performance Footwear Market In 2008. Although the design and aesthetics of our products have traditionally been the most important factor in consumer acceptance of our footwear, we more recently began incorporating technical innovations into certain of our product offerings, capitalizing on recent trends in the performance footwear market with the introduction of toning footwear in late 2008 and resistance running footwear in 2010. The performance footwear market is keenly competitive in the United States and worldwide, and new entrants into that market face many challenges. Negative consumer perceptions of our performance features due to our historical reputation as a fashion and lifestyle footwear company, product offerings and technologies from our competitors, and failure to keep up with rapid changes in footwear technology and consumer preferences may constitute significant risk factors in our operations and may negatively impact our business. Our Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted If Our Sales Are Concentrated In Any One Style Or Group Of Styles. If any single style or group of similar styles of our footwear were to represent a substantial portion of our net sales, we could be exposed to risk should consumer demand for such style or group of styles decrease in subsequent periods. We attempt to mitigate this risk by offering a broad range of products, and no style comprised over 5% of our gross wholesale sales during 2010 or 2009. However, this may change in the future and fluctuations in sales of any given style that represents a significant portion of our future net sales could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our Business And The Success Of Our Products Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Brand Image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of the Skechers brand, and to a lesser degree, the reputation of our fashion brands. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles of footwear that are no longer popular. In the past, several footwear companies including ours have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. 16 Table of Contents The Toning Footwear Category Has Come Under Increasingly Intense Public Scrutiny That May Have A Negative Impact On Our Business And Results Of Operations. The relatively new toning footwear category, including our own Shape-ups products, has come under intense scrutiny in the past year, including highly publicized negative professional opinions, negative publicity and media attention, and attorneys publicly marketing their services to consumers who were allegedly aggrieved by our marketing or injured by our products. The negative publicity and media attention has ranged from questioning the validity of our advertising and promotional claims to the overall safety of these products. It is difficult to predict what effect this negative publicity will have on sales of toning footwear generally and our Shape-ups products in particular, whether such publicity will continue and, if it does continue, what the overall effect will be on our business and our results of operations. The existing negative publicity and any future negative publicity may present significant risks to our operations and may negatively impact our business and sales. It Is Difficult To Predict The Effect Of Regulatory Inquiries About Advertising And Promotional Claims Related To Our Products In The Fitness Footwear Market. The toning footwear market is a relatively new product category dominated by a handful of competitors who design, market and advertise their products to promote benefits associated with wearing the footwear. Advertising and promoting benefits associated with these products routinely comes under regulatory review from regulators including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, states’ Attorney Generals and government and quasi-government regulators in foreign countries. As noted under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report, we have received requests for information relating to our advertising claims for Shape-ups and other toning products. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these inquiries and what, if any, effect, they may have on our advertising, promotional claims, business, or results of operations. We Face Intense Competition, Including Competition From Companies With Significantly Greater Resources Than Ours, And If We Are Unable To Compete Effectively With These Companies, Our Market Share May Decline And Our Business Could Be Harmed. We face intense competition in the footwear industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Business Could Be Harmed If We Fail To Maintain Proper Inventory Levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, the global economic slowdown and changes in the marketplace for toning footwear can make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast product demand trends, and we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. Our Future Success Depends On Our Ability To Respond To Changing Consumer Demands, Identify And Interpret Fashion Trends And Successfully Market New Products. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, we must identify and 17 Table of Contents interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products are uncertain and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. If we do not continue to meet changing consumer demands and develop successful styles in the future, our growth and profitability will be negatively impacted. We frequently make decisions about product designs and marketing expenditures several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be determined. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends or are not successful in marketing new products, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to profitably sell our products. Because of these risks, a number of companies in the footwear industry specifically, and others in the fashion and apparel industry in general, have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings and thereafter periods of declining sales and losses, which in some cases have resulted in companies in these industries ceasing to do business. Similarly, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Changes In The Business Or Financial Condition Of Significant Customers Due To Global Economic Conditions. The global financial crisis affected the banking system and financial markets and resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms, and higher volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key distributors, which could impair our distribution channels, or our significant customers, including our distributors, may experience diminished liquidity or an inability to obtain credit to finance purchases of our product. Our customers may also experience weak demand for our products or other difficulties in their businesses. If conditions in the global financial markets deteriorate in the future, demand may be lower than forecasted and insufficient to achieve our anticipated financial results. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Have Difficulty Managing Our Costs If Global Economic Conditions Worsen. Our future results of operations will depend on our overall ability to manage our costs. These challenges include (i) managing our infrastructure, including the anticipated addition of our new distribution center in Rancho Belago, California, (ii) retaining and hiring, as required, the appropriate number of qualified employees, (iii) managing inventory levels and (iv) controlling other expenses. If global economic conditions worsen and lead to an unexpected decline in our revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expenses or a failure to manage other aspects of our operations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We May Be Unable To Successfully Execute Our Growth Strategy Or Maintain Our Growth. Although our company has generally exhibited steady growth since we began operations, we have suffered decreases in net sales in the past and our rate of growth has declined at times as well, and we may experience similar decreases in net sales or declines in rate of growth again in the future. Our ability to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and expand our footwear offerings and distribution channels. As our business grows, we may need to improve and enhance our overall financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures to effectively manage our growth. We may be unable to successfully implement our current growth strategy or other growth strategies or effectively manage our growth, any of which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we have significantly expanded our infrastructure and workforce to achieve economies of scale. Because these expenses are mostly fixed in the short term, our operating results and margins will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to grow as anticipated. Our Business And Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted If Our New Domestic Distribution Center Is Not Completed As Expected In 2011. Our domestic distribution center currently consists of six warehouse facilities located in or near Ontario, California, and we occupy five of these facilities under short-term leases. During January 2010, we entered into an agreement with a real estate developer to form a joint venture to build a new 1.8 million square foot distribution facility in Rancho Belago, California that is intended to replace the six existing warehouse facilities. We plan on moving our domestic distribution operations out of the existing facilities and into the new distribution facility when it is completed in 2011. However, because of the potential for construction delays or changes in construction scope and schedule, we cannot predict with certainty when or if the new distribution facility will be completed. Even if the construction proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may not fulfill their contractual obligations or that unsatisfactory performance could increase the cost associated with the construction. Any delays, cancellations, scope changes or 18 Table of Contents unsatisfactory performance by others could materially increase the construction expenses and other costs of our new distribution facility. Additionally, the leases of the five facilities that we currently occupy expire throughout the second half of 2011. If the new distribution facility is not completed as expected in 2011, which would prevent us from moving our domestic distribution operations as planned, we cannot be assured that the landlords of the leased facilities will continue to provide short-term leases that address our needs on terms favorable to us or that, if not available, we will be able to find alternate facilities available for short-term lease on terms that are at least as comparable to us as the terms of the existing leases. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Children’s Shoe Business May Be Negatively Impacted By The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act Of 2008. The Consumer Product Safety Commission (the “Commission”) issued new standards, effective February 10, 2009, August 14, 2009 and August 11, 2011, under the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 (“CPSIA”) regarding lead content in consumer products directed at children 12 years of age and under, including children’s shoes. The lead limits on the outer or accessible part of a children’s shoe was decreased to 600 parts per million beginning February 10, 2009, and subsequently reduced on August 14, 2009 to 300 parts per million. The current standard applies retroactively to all products that exist on February 10, 2009 and August 14, 2009, respectively, and it is not limited to new manufacturing. The lead limits are expected to be reduced again on August 11, 2011 to 100 parts per million unless the Commission determines before then that such a limit is not technologically feasible. We have been working to ensure that covered products are appropriately tested, and we are regularly monitoring the evolution and interpretation of the regulation to ensure compliance. There is still uncertainty regarding the meaning of the CPSIA, how it applies to products or product components and the level of detail that each of our retailers will require, and the Commission recently announced an extension to the stay of enforcement of testing and certification requirements until December 31, 2011. Consequently, we are unable to predict whether the total financial impact of these new standards will have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation or financial condition. We Depend Upon A Relatively Small Group Of Customers For A Large Portion Of Our Sales. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, our net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 24.9%, 25.1% and 24.1% of total net sales, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our net sales during 2010, 2009 and 2008. No customer accounted for more than 10% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2010. One customer accounted for 11.3% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2009. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase our products and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. Furthermore, the retail industry regularly experiences consolidation, contractions and closings which may result in our loss of customers or our inability to collect accounts receivable of major customers. If we lose a major customer, experience a significant decrease in sales to a major customer or are unable to collect the accounts receivable of a major customer, our business could be harmed. Many Of Our Retail Stores Depend Heavily On The Customer Traffic Generated By Shopping And Factory Outlet Malls Or By Tourism. Many of our concept stores are located in shopping malls and some of our factory outlet stores are located in manufacturers’ outlet malls where we depend on obtaining prominent locations and the overall success of the malls to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the success of individual malls, and an increase in store closures by other retailers may lead to mall vacancies and reduced foot traffic. Some of our concept stores occupy street locations that are heavily dependent on customer traffic generated by tourism. Any substantial decrease in tourism resulting from the global economic slowdown, political, social or military events or otherwise, is likely to adversely affect sales in our existing stores, particularly those with street locations. The effects of these factors could reduce sales of particular existing stores or hinder our ability to open retail stores in new markets, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our International Sales And Manufacturing Operations Are Subject To The Risks Of Doing Business Abroad, Particularly In China, Which Could Affect Our Ability To Sell Or Manufacture Our Products In International Markets, Obtain Products From Foreign Suppliers Or Control The Costs Of Our Products. Substantially all of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2010 were derived from sales of footwear manufactured in foreign countries, with most manufactured in China and, to a lesser extent, in Italy, Brazil and Vietnam. We also sell our footwear in several foreign countries and plan to increase our international sales efforts as part of our growth strategy. Foreign manufacturing and 19 Table of Contents sales are subject to a number of risks, including the following: political and social unrest, including the military presence in Iraq and terrorism; changing economic conditions, including higher labor costs; increased costs of raw materials; currency exchange rate fluctuations; labor shortages and work stoppages; electrical shortages; transportation delays; loss or damage to products in transit; expropriation; nationalization; the adjustment, elimination or imposition of domestic and international duties, tariffs, quotas, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers; exposure to different legal standards (particularly with respect to intellectual property); compliance with foreign laws; and changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring or the resulting long-term adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, because most of our products are manufactured in China, the possibility of adverse changes in trade or political relations with China, political instability in China, increases in labor costs, the occurrence of prolonged adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster such as an earthquake or typhoon in China, or the outbreak of a pandemic disease such as the H1N1 (Swine) Flu in China could severely interfere with the manufacture and/or shipment of our products and would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, electrical shortages, labor shortages or work stoppages may extend the production time necessary to produce our orders, and there may be circumstances in the future where we may have to incur premium freight charges to expedite the delivery of product to our customers. If we incur a significant amount of premium charges to airfreight product for our customers, our gross profit will be negatively affected if we are unable to collect those charges. Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations In China Could Result In Higher Costs And Decreased Margins. Our manufacturers located in China may be subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations should the Chinese currency not remain stable with the U.S. dollar. The value of the Chinese currency depends to a large extent on the Chinese government’s policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of the Chinese currency was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a virtually fixed rate of approximately 8.28 Yuan per U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government revalued the Yuan by 2.1%, setting the exchange rate at 8.11 Yuan per U.S. dollar, and adopted a more flexible system based on a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies of China’s main trading partners. Since then, the value of the Yuan has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar to 6.59 Yuan per U.S. dollar on December 31, 2010. The valuation of the Yuan may continue to increase incrementally over time should the China central bank allow it to do so, which could significantly increase labor and other costs incurred in the production of our footwear in China, resulting in a potentially material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Potential Imposition Of Additional Duties, Quotas, Tariffs And Other Trade Restrictions Could Have An Adverse Impact On Our Sales And Profitability. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States, the European Union (“EU”) and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by us is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether additional customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and might adversely affect the sales and profitability of Skechers and the imported footwear industry as a whole. Our Quarterly Revenues And Operating Results Fluctuate As A Result Of A Variety Of Factors, Including Seasonal Fluctuations In Demand For Footwear, Delivery Date Delays And Potential Fluctuations In Our Estimated Annualized Tax Rate, Which May Result In Volatility Of Our Stock Price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts, may and have canceled orders, and may change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. In addition, sales of footwear products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the strongest sales generally occurring in our second and third quarters for the back-to-school selling season. Back-to-school sales typically ship in June, July and August, and delays in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of these customer orders and shipments by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for our second or third quarters. More specifically, the timing of when products are shipped is determined by the delivery schedules set by our wholesale customers, which could cause sales to shift between our second and third quarters. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future net sales, our expenses may be 20 Table of Contents disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shifts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter, and it is highly sensitive to fluctuations in projected international earnings. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in revenues or net earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. We Rely On Independent Contract Manufacturers And, As A Result, Are Exposed To Potential Disruptions In Product Supply. Our footwear products are currently manufactured by independent contract manufacturers. During 2010 and 2009, the top five manufacturers of our products produced approximately 70.6% and 69.1% of our total purchases, respectively. One manufacturer accounted for 34.7% and 29.7% of total purchases during 2010 and 2009, respectively. One other manufacturer accounted for 13.0% of our total purchases during 2010. Three other manufacturers accounted for over 10.0% of our total purchases during 2009. We do not have long-term contracts with our manufacturers, and we compete with other footwear companies for production facilities. We could experience difficulties with these manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet our quality control standards, failure to meet production deadlines or increased manufacturing costs. In particular, manufacturers in China are facing a labor shortage as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions in farming and other vocations, and if this trend continues, our current manufacturers’ operations could be adversely affected. If our current manufacturers cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturers, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative manufacturers that will be as favorable as the relationships we have now. For example, new manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, lower manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or higher lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Business Could Be Harmed If Our Contract Manufacturers, Suppliers Or Licensees Violate Labor, Trade Or Other Laws. We require our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Manufacturers are required to certify that neither convicted, forced or indentured labor (as defined under United States law) nor child labor (as defined by law in the manufacturer’s country) is used in the production process, that compensation is paid in accordance with local law and that their factories are in compliance with local safety regulations. Although we promote ethical business practices and our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees, we do not control them or their labor practices. If one of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers or licensees violates labor or other laws or diverges from those labor practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States, it could result in adverse publicity for us, damage our reputation in the United States or render our conduct of business in a particular foreign country undesirable or impractical, any of which could harm our business. In addition, if we, or our foreign manufacturers, violate United States or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of United States or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of our imported products, misstatements or errors as to the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. Our Strategies Involve A Number Of Risks That Could Prevent Or Delay Any Successful Opening Of New Stores As Well As Impact The Performance Of Our Existing Stores. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on many factors, including, among others: our ability to identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant 21 Table of Contents improvement allowances; source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; hire, train and retain store personnel; successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and satisfy the fashion preferences in new geographic areas. In addition, some or a substantial number of new stores could be opened in regions of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. Any expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that any new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We Depend On Key Personnel To Manage Our Business Effectively In A Rapidly Changing Market, And If We Are Unable To Retain Existing Personnel, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of Robert Greenberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Michael Greenberg, President and a member of our Board of Directors; and David Weinberg, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee could harm us. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The Disruption, Expense And Potential Liability Associated With Existing And Unanticipated Future Litigation Against Us Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. We are subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time as part of our business. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings or aware of any threatened legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, individually or in the aggregate, we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, any unanticipated litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees to us. Further, there can be no assurance that any actions that have been or will be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, that we will have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For a discussion of risks related to regulatory inquiries, see the risks discussed on page 17 under “It Is Difficult To Predict The Effect Of Regulatory Inquiries About Advertising And Promotional Claims Related To Our Products In The Fitness Footwear Market.” Our Ability To Compete Could Be Jeopardized If We Are Unable To Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights Or If We Are Sued For Intellectual Property Infringement. We believe that our trademarks, design patents and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our Skechers®, S in Shield Design®, Performance-S Shifted Design® and Shape-ups® trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in many countries. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We also have a number of design patents and a limited number of utility patents covering components and features used in various shoes. We believe that our patents and trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. While we vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we have been sued for patent and trademark infringement and cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability as well as the diversion of management’s attention from our business, each of which could negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, the laws of foreign countries where we source and distribute our products may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our 22 Table of Contents trademarks and other intellectual property rights outside the United States will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or, if necessary, successfully challenge another party’s counterfeit products or products that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights on the basis of trademark or patent infringement. Continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. Natural Disasters Or A Decline In Economic Conditions In California Could Increase Our Operating Expenses Or Adversely Affect Our Sales Revenue. As of December 31, 2010, a substantial portion of our operations are located in California, including 63 of our retail stores, our headquarters in Manhattan Beach, our current domestic distribution center in Ontario and our future domestic distribution center in Rancho Belago. Because a significant portion of our net sales is derived from sales in California, a decline in the economic conditions in California, whether or not such decline spreads beyond California, could materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake or wild fires affecting California, could significantly disrupt our business including the operation of our only domestic distribution center. We may be more susceptible to these issues than our competitors whose operations are not as concentrated in California. One Principal Stockholder Is Able To Exert Significant Influence Over All Matters Requiring A Vote Of Our Stockholders And His Interests May Differ From The Interests Of Our Other Stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, Robert Greenberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 29.9% of our outstanding Class B common shares and members of Mr. Greenberg’s immediate family beneficially owned an additional 15.5% of our outstanding Class B common shares. The remainder of our outstanding Class B common shares is held in two irrevocable trusts for the benefit of Mr. Greenberg and his immediate family members, and voting control of such shares resides with the independent trustee. The holders of Class A common shares and Class B common shares have identical rights except that holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As a result, as of December 31, 2010, Mr. Greenberg beneficially owned approximately 22.3% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders, and together with shares beneficially owned by other members of his immediate family, they beneficially owned approximately 34.9% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders. Therefore, Mr. Greenberg is able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Matters that require the approval of our stockholders include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Mr. Greenberg also has significant influence over our management and operations. As a result of such influence, certain transactions are not likely without the approval of Mr. Greenberg, including proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that can give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of our Class A common shares. Because Mr. Greenberg’s interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders, Mr. Greenberg’s significant influence on actions requiring stockholder approval may result in our company taking action that is not in the interests of all stockholders. The differential in the voting rights may also adversely affect the value of our Class A common shares to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser view the superior voting rights of our Class B common shares to have value. Our Charter Documents And Delaware Law May Inhibit A Takeover, Which May Adversely Affect The Value Of Our Stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Mr. Greenberg’s substantial beneficial ownership position, together with the authorization of Preferred Stock, the disparate voting rights between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, the classification of our Board of Directors and the lack of cumulative voting in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our Class A Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Class A Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 