ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. The Effects Of The Slow Pace Of Economic Recovery In The United States And The Uncertainty Of Market Conditions In Europe May Continue To Have A Negative Impact On Our Business, Results Of Operations Or Financial Condition. The slow pace of economic recovery in the United States and the uncertainty of market conditions in Europe have led to declining consumer and business confidence, which has resulted in decreased levels of consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items such as footwear. These macroeconomic developments have and could continue to negatively impact our business, which depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumers’ discretionary spending in the United States and other parts of the world that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, who are our primary direct customers. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. If the economic recovery in the United States continues to be slow or experiences a prolonged period of decelerating or negative growth, or if the uncertain market conditions in Europe continue for a significant period of time or worsen, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our Business And The Success Of Our Products Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Brand Image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of the Skechers brand. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles of footwear that are no longer popular. In the past, several footwear companies including ours have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business has been and may be similarly affected in the future. We Face Many New Challenges After Entering The Highly Competitive Performance Footwear Market In 2008. Although the design and aesthetics of our products have traditionally been the most important factors in consumer acceptance of our footwear, we began incorporating technical innovations into certain of our product offerings in late 2008 and have continued to develop and introduce new performance footwear since then. The performance footwear market is keenly competitive in the United States and worldwide, and the newer entrants in that market including our company face many challenges. Negative consumer perceptions of our performance features due to our historical reputation as a fashion and lifestyle footwear company, product offerings and technologies from our competitors, and failure to keep up with rapid changes in footwear technology and consumer preferences may constitute significant risk factors in our strategy and may negatively impact our business. Our Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted If Our Sales Are Concentrated In Any One Style Or Group Of Styles. If any single style or group of similar styles of our footwear were to represent a substantial portion of our net sales, we could be exposed to risk should consumer demand for such style or group of styles decrease in subsequent periods. We attempt to mitigate this risk by offering a broad range of products, and no style comprised over 5% of our gross wholesale sales during 2012 or 2011. However, this may change in the future and fluctuations in sales of any given style that represents a significant portion of our future net sales could have a negative impact on our operating results. We Face Intense Competition, Including Competition From Companies With Significantly Greater Resources Than Ours, And If We Are Unable To Compete Effectively With These Companies, Our Market Share May Decline And Our Business Could Be Harmed. We face intense competition in the footwear industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production, and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. 16 Table of Contents We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. Our Business Could Be Harmed If We Fail To Maintain Proper Inventory Levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, similar to the changes in the marketplace for toning footwear in 2011 that led to excess inventory, discounted pricing and inventory write-downs, continued lower levels of consumer spending due to the global economic slowdown, an unanticipated decline in the popularity of Skechers footwear or other unforeseen circumstances may make it difficult for us and our customers to accurately forecast product demand trends, and we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. The Toning Footwear Category Has Come Under Public And Regulatory Scrutiny That May Have A Material Negative Impact On Our Business And Results Of Operations. The toning footwear product category, including our Shape-ups products, has come under significant public scrutiny, such as highly publicized negative professional opinions, negative publicity and media attention, personal injury lawsuits and attorneys publicly marketing their services to consumers allegedly injured by toning products, including Shape-ups. In addition, we have been responding to inquiries by state, federal, and foreign governmental and quasi-governmental regulators regarding the claims, advertising, and safety of our toning products, and are engaged as defendants in civil lawsuits that involve similar claims. This public and regulatory scrutiny has included the questioning of our advertising, promotional claims, and the overall safety of these products, as well as allegations of personal injuries. We believe that Shape-ups and our other toning products are safe, but the negative publicity from this public and regulatory scrutiny appears to have had a negative impact on sales of toning footwear generally and our Shape-ups products in particular. We are not able to predict whether such publicity, regulatory review and related litigation will continue or what the continued effect will be on the sales of our Shape-up products, our business, and our results of operations beyond that included in this annual report. Further details regarding these legal and regulatory matters are discussed in greater detail under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report. It Is Difficult To Predict The Effect Of Regulatory Inquiries About Advertising And Promotional Claims Related To Our Toning Shoe Products. The toning footwear market is dominated by a handful of competitors who design, market and advertise their products to promote fitness benefits associated with wearing the footwear. Advertising that promotes fitness benefits associated with the toning footwear market has come under review from state, federal, and foreign governmental and quasi-governmental regulators. As discussed in greater detail under “Legal Proceedings” in Part I, Item 3 of this annual report, we announced on May 16, 2012 that we had settled all domestic legal proceedings relating to advertising claims made in connection with the marketing of our toning shoe products. Under the terms of the global settlement—without admitting any fault or liability, with no findings being made that our company had violated any law, and with no fines or penalties being imposed—we made payments in the aggregate amount of $45 million and expect to pay up to $5 million in class action attorneys’ fees to settle all domestic advertising class action lawsuits and related claims brought by the FTC and the SAGs. On November 8, 2012, we were served with a Grand Jury Subpoena (“Subpoena”) that was issued by a Grand Jury of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, in Cleveland, Ohio for documents and information relating to past advertising claims for our toning footwear, including Shape-ups and Resistance Runners. The Subpoena, which seeks documents and information related to outside studies conducted on our toning footwear, appears related to the FTC’s inquiry into our claims and advertising for Shape-ups and our other toning shoe products. The Grand Jury investigation is in its early stages and we are fully cooperating in the process of producing documents and other information requested. The Assistant United States Attorney has informed us that neither we nor our employees are targets at the present time. Although we do not believe this Grand Jury investigation will have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or financial position, it is too early to predict 17 Table of Contents the timing and outcome of this investigation, if there will be any additional regulatory inquiries or whether the final resolution of these matters could have a material adverse impact on our advertising, promotional claims, business, results of operations and financial position. Our Future Success Depends On Our Ability To Respond To Changing Consumer Demands, Identify And Interpret Fashion Trends And Successfully Market New Products. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, we must identify and interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products are uncertain and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. If we do not continue to meet changing consumer demands and develop successful styles in the future, our growth and profitability will be negatively impacted. We frequently make decisions about product designs and marketing expenditures several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be determined. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends or are not successful in marketing new products, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to profitably sell our products. Because of these risks, a number of companies in the footwear industry specifically, and others in the fashion and apparel industry in general, have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings and thereafter periods of declining sales and losses, which in some cases have resulted in companies in these industries ceasing to do business. Similarly, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our Business Could Be Adversely Affected By Changes In The Business Or Financial Condition Of Significant Customers Due To Global Economic Conditions. The global financial crisis affected the banking system and financial markets and resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms, and higher volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key distributors, which could impair our distribution channels, or our significant customers, including our distributors, may experience diminished liquidity or an inability to obtain credit to finance purchases of our product. Our customers may also experience weak demand for our products or other difficulties in their businesses. If conditions in the global financial markets deteriorate in the future, demand may be lower than forecasted and insufficient to achieve our anticipated financial results. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Have Difficulty Managing Our Costs If Global Economic Conditions Worsen. Our future results of operations will depend on our overall ability to manage our costs. These challenges include (i) managing our infrastructure, including our distribution center in Rancho Belago, California, (ii) hiring and maintaining, as required, the appropriate number of qualified employees, (iii) managing inventory levels and (iv) controlling other expenses. If global economic conditions worsen and lead to an unexpected decline in our revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expenses or a failure to manage other aspects of our operations, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. The Popularity Of Skechers Footwear May Not Continue To Grow As Rapidly As It Has In The Past Or May Decline, Which Would Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. Although our company has generally exhibited steady growth since we began operations through 2010, we have suffered decreases in net sales at times in the past, including in 2011, our rate of growth has declined at times as well and we may experience similar decreases in net sales or declines in rate of growth again in the future. Our ability to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued popularity of our footwear, the acceptance by customers of performance footwear including the Skechers GOrun and Skechers GOwalk lines, and the development of new lines and styles of footwear with widespread appeal to a broad demographic of customers. If the popularity of our footwear declines or does not increase in the future, we may experience, among other things, a decrease in our revenues and profitability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We Depend Upon A Relatively Small Group Of Customers For A Large Portion Of Our Sales. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, our net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 18.1%, 17.8% and 24.9% of total net sales, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our net sales during 2012, 2011 and 2010. No customer accounted for more than 10% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2012. One customer accounted for 12.5% and another 18 Table of Contents accounted for 10.0% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2011. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase our products and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. Furthermore, the retail industry regularly experiences consolidation, contractions and closings which may result in our loss of customers or our inability to collect accounts receivable of major customers. If we lose a major customer, experience a significant decrease in sales to a major customer or are unable to collect the accounts receivable of a major customer, our business could be harmed. Many Of Our Retail Stores Depend Heavily On The Customer Traffic Generated By Shopping And Factory Outlet Malls Or By Tourism. Many of our concept stores are located in shopping malls and some of our factory outlet stores are located in manufacturers’ outlet malls where we depend on obtaining prominent locations and the overall success of the malls to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the success of individual malls, and an increase in store closures by other retailers may lead to mall vacancies and reduced foot traffic. Some of our concept stores occupy street locations that are heavily dependent on customer traffic generated by tourism. Any substantial decrease in tourism resulting from the global economic slowdown, political, social or military events or otherwise, is likely to adversely affect sales in our existing stores, particularly those with street locations. The effects of these factors could reduce sales of particular existing stores or hinder our ability to open retail stores in new markets, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our International Sales And Manufacturing Operations Are Subject To The Risks Of Doing Business Abroad, Particularly In China, Which Could Affect Our Ability To Sell Or Manufacture Our Products In International Markets, Obtain Products From Foreign Suppliers Or Control The Costs Of Our Products. Substantially all of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2012 were derived from sales of footwear manufactured in foreign countries, with most manufactured in China and, to a lesser extent, in Brazil and Vietnam. We also sell our footwear in several foreign countries and plan to increase our international sales efforts as part of our growth strategy. Foreign manufacturing and sales are subject to a number of risks, including the following: political and social unrest, including the military presence in Iraq and terrorism; changing economic conditions, including higher labor costs; increased costs of raw materials; currency exchange rate fluctuations; labor shortages and work stoppages; electrical shortages; transportation delays; loss or damage to products in transit; expropriation; nationalization; the adjustment, elimination or imposition of domestic and international duties, tariffs, quotas, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers; exposure to different legal standards (particularly with respect to intellectual property); compliance with foreign laws; and changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring or the resulting long-term adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, because most of our products are manufactured in China, the possibility of adverse changes in trade or political relations with China, political instability in China, increases in labor costs, the occurrence of prolonged adverse weather conditions or a natural disaster such as an earthquake or typhoon in China, or the outbreak of a pandemic disease in China could severely interfere with the manufacture and/or shipment of our products and would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, electrical shortages, labor shortages or work stoppages may extend the production time necessary to produce our orders, and there may be circumstances in the future where we may have to incur premium freight charges to expedite the delivery of product to our customers. If we incur a significant amount of premium charges to airfreight product for our customers, our gross profit will be negatively affected if we are unable to collect those charges. Currency Exchange Rate Fluctuations In China Could Result In Higher Costs And Decreased Margins. Our manufacturers located in China may be subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations should the Chinese currency not remain stable with the U.S. dollar. The value of the Chinese currency depends to a large extent on the Chinese government’s policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of the Chinese currency was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a virtually fixed rate of approximately 8.28 Yuan per U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government revalued the Yuan by 2.1%, setting the exchange rate at 8.11 Yuan per U.S. dollar, and adopted a more flexible system based on a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies of China’s main trading partners. Since then, the value of the Yuan has gradually appreciated against the U.S. dollar to 6.30 Yuan per U.S. dollar on December 31, 2012. The valuation of the Yuan may continue to increase incrementally over time should the China central bank allow it to do so, which could significantly increase labor and other costs incurred in the production of our footwear in China, resulting in a potentially material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents The Potential Imposition Of Additional Duties, Quotas, Tariffs And Other Trade Restrictions Could Have An Adverse Impact On Our Sales And Profitability. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States, the European Union (“EU”) and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by us is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether additional customs duties, quotas, tariffs, anti-dumping duties, safeguard measures, cargo restrictions to prevent terrorism or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and might adversely affect the sales and profitability of Skechers and the imported footwear industry as a whole. Our Quarterly Revenues And Operating Results Fluctuate As A Result Of A Variety Of Factors, Including Seasonal Fluctuations In Demand For Footwear, Delivery Date Delays And Potential Fluctuations In Our Estimated Annualized Tax Rate, Which May Result In Volatility Of Our Stock Price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts, may and have canceled orders, and may change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. In addition, sales of footwear products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the strongest sales generally occurring in our second and third quarters for the back-to-school selling season. Back-to-school sales typically ship in June, July and August, and delays in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of these customer orders and shipments by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for our second or third quarters. More specifically, the timing of when products are shipped is determined by the delivery schedules set by our wholesale customers, which could cause sales to shift between our second and third quarters. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future net sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shifts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter, and it is highly sensitive to fluctuations in projected international earnings. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in revenues or net earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. We Rely On Independent Contract Manufacturers And, As A Result, Are Exposed To Potential Disruptions In Product Supply. Our footwear products are currently manufactured by independent contract manufacturers. During 2012 and 2011, the top five manufacturers of our products produced approximately 61.6% and 62.5% of our total purchases, respectively. One manufacturer accounted for 33.5% and 30.8% of total purchases during 2012 and 2011, respectively. One other manufacturer accounted for 9.2% and 11.5% of our total purchases during 2012 and 2011, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts with manufacturers and we compete with other footwear companies for production facilities. We could experience difficulties with these manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet our quality control standards, failure to meet production deadlines or increased manufacturing costs. This could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a negative impact on our cash flow and harm our business. If our current manufacturers cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturers, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative manufacturers that will be as favorable as the relationships we have now. For example, new manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, lower manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or higher lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, our business would be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our Business Could Be Harmed If Our Contract Manufacturers, Suppliers Or Licensees Violate Labor, Trade Or Other Laws. We require our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Manufacturers are required to certify that neither convicted, forced or indentured labor (as defined under United States law) nor child labor (as defined by law in the manufacturer’s country) is used in the production process, that compensation is paid in accordance with local law and that their factories are in compliance with local safety regulations. Although we promote ethical business practices and our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees, we do not control them or their labor practices. If one of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers or licensees violates labor or other laws or diverges from those labor practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States, it could result in adverse publicity for us, damage our reputation in the United States or render our conduct of business in a particular foreign country undesirable or impractical, any of which could harm our business. In addition, if we, or our foreign manufacturers, violate United States or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of United States or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of our imported products, misstatements or errors as to the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. Our Strategies Involve A Number Of Risks That Could Prevent Or Delay Any Successful Opening Of New Stores As Well As Impact The Performance Of Our Existing Stores. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on many factors, including, among others: our ability to identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; hire, train and retain store personnel; successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and satisfy the fashion preferences in new geographic areas. In addition, some or a substantial number of new stores could be opened in regions of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. Any expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that any new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. We Depend On Key Personnel To Manage Our Business Effectively In A Rapidly Changing Market, And If We Are Unable To Retain Existing Personnel, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of Robert Greenberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer; Michael Greenberg, President and a member of our Board of Directors; and David Weinberg, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and a member of our Board of Directors. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee could harm us. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The Disruption, Expense And Potential Liability Associated With Existing And Unanticipated Future Litigation Against Us Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. In addition to the legal matters included in our reserve for loss contingencies, we occasionally become involved in litigation arising from the normal course of business, and we are unable to determine the extent of any liability that may arise from any such unanticipated future litigation. We have no reason to believe that there is a reasonable possibility or a probability our company may incur a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to any other such loss contingencies. However, the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain and assessments and decisions on defense and settlement can change significantly in a short period of time. Therefore, although we consider the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote with respect to those matters for which we have not reserved an amount for loss contingencies, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against us in the same reporting period for amounts in excess of our expectations, our consolidated financial statements of a particular reporting period could be materially adversely affected. Further, any unanticipated litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could also 21 Table of Contents significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees being incurred. Such disruptions, legal fees and any losses resulting from these unanticipated future claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial statements and financial condition. For a discussion of risks related to regulatory inquiries, see the risks discussed on page 17 under “It Is Difficult To Predict The Effect Of Regulatory Inquiries About Advertising And Promotional Claims Related To Our Products In The Fitness Footwear Market.” Our Ability To Compete Could Be Jeopardized If We Are Unable To Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights Or If We Are Sued For Intellectual Property Infringement. We believe that our trademarks, design patents and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our Skechers®, S in Shield Design, Performance-S Shifted Design, Shape-ups®, Twinkle Toes®, Bella Ballerina™, Skechers GOrun® and Skechers GOwalk™ trademarks to be among our most valuable assets, and we have registered these trademarks in many countries. In addition, we own many other trademarks that we utilize in marketing our products. We also have a number of design patents and a limited number of utility patents covering components and features used in various shoes. We believe that our patents and trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. While we vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we have been sued for patent and trademark infringement and cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability as well as the diversion of management’s attention from our business, each of which could negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, the laws of foreign countries where we source and distribute our products may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights outside the United States will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or, if necessary, successfully challenge another party’s counterfeit products or products that otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights on the basis of trademark or patent infringement. Continued sales of these products could adversely affect our sales and our brand and result in the shift of consumer preference away from our products. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition could be adversely affected. Natural Disasters Or A Decline In Economic Conditions In California Could Increase Our Operating Expenses Or Adversely Affect Our Sales Revenue. As of December 31, 2012, a substantial portion of our operations are located in California, including 76 of our retail stores, our headquarters in Manhattan Beach, and our domestic distribution center in Rancho Belago. Because a significant portion of our net sales is derived from sales in California, a decline in the economic conditions in California, whether or not such decline spreads beyond California, could materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake or wild fires affecting California, could significantly disrupt our business including the operation of our only domestic distribution center. We may be more susceptible to these issues than our competitors whose operations are not as concentrated in California. Breaches Of Our Information Technology Systems And Other Disruptions Could Compromise Our Information, Expose Us To Liability And Harm Our Reputation And Business. We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of intrusion, tampering and theft. We develop and maintain systems to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these systems is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion tampering and theft cannot be eliminated 22 Table of Contents entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised. If our data systems are compromised, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be injured resulting in loss of business or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible injury to our customers and employees or to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident. One Principal Stockholder Is Able To Control Substantially All Matters Requiring Approval By Our Stockholders And Another Stockholder Is Able To Exert Significant Influence Over All Matters Requiring A Vote Of Our Stockholders, And Their Interests May Differ From The Interests Of Our Other Stockholders. As of December 31, 2012, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greenberg, beneficially owned 54.5% of our outstanding Class B common shares, members of Mr. Greenberg’s immediate family beneficially owned an additional 15.6% of our outstanding Class B common shares, and Gil Schwartzberg, trustee of several trusts formed by Mr. Greenberg and his wife for estate planning purposes, beneficially owned 29.3% of our outstanding Class B common shares. The holders of Class A common shares and Class B common shares have identical rights except that holders of Class A common shares are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B common shares are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As a result, as of December 31, 2012, Mr. Greenberg beneficially owned 40.4% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders, and together with shares beneficially owned by other members of his immediate family, Mr. Greenberg and his immediate family beneficially owned 52.9% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders, and Mr. Schwartzberg beneficially owned 21.7% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders. Therefore, Mr. Greenberg is able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, and Mr. Schwartzberg is able to exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Matters that require the approval of our stockholders include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Mr. Greenberg also has significant influence over our management and operations. As a result of such influence, certain transactions are not likely without the approval of Messrs. Greenberg and Schwartzberg, including proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that can give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of our Class A common shares. Because Messrs. Greenberg’s and Schwartzberg’s interests may differ from the interests of the other stockholders, their ability to significantly influence or substantially control, respectively, actions requiring stockholder approval may result in our company taking action that is not in the interests of all stockholders. The differential in the voting rights may also adversely affect the value of our Class A common shares to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser view the superior voting rights of our Class B common shares to have value. Our Charter Documents And Delaware Law May Inhibit A Takeover, Which May Adversely Affect The Value Of Our Stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Mr. Greenberg’s substantial beneficial ownership position, together with the authorization of Preferred Stock, the disparate voting rights between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, the classification of our Board of Directors and the lack of cumulative voting in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our Class A Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Class A Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 