Item 1A. Risk Factors" below.All forward-looking statements in this report (including any statements with respect to the proposed AT&T merger) should be considered in the context of these risk factors. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the filing date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, users of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements.2Item 1.BusinessOverviewWe are a wireless communications carrier that offers digital wireless services in the U.S. under the "Cricket®" brand. Our Cricket service offerings provide customers with unlimited nationwide wireless services for a flat rate without requiring a fixed-term contract or a credit check.Cricket service is offered by Cricket, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Leap. Cricket service is also offered in South Texas by STX Wireless Operations, LLC, or STX Operations, which Cricket controls through a 75.75% membership interest in STX Wireless, LLC, or STX Wireless, the parent company of STX Operations. For more information regarding this joint venture, see "Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources - STX Wireless Joint Venture."Leap was formed as a Delaware corporation in 1998. Leap's shares began trading publicly in September 1998, and we launched our innovative Cricket service in March 1999. Leap conducts operations through its subsidiaries and has no independent operations or sources of income other than interest income and through dividends, if any, from its subsidiaries.Proposed MergerOn July 12, 2013, Leap entered into the Merger Agreement with AT&T, Mariner Acquisition Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T, which we refer to as Merger Sub, and Laser, Inc., a Delaware corporation (which will act as the stockholders' representative for certain purposes under the Merger Agreement), pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, AT&T will acquire Leap in a transaction in which Leap stockholders would receive $15.00 in cash for each outstanding share of Leap's common stock, plus one non-transferable contingent value right, or CVR, per share (together, referred to in this report as the Merger Consideration). The CVR will entitle each Leap stockholder to a pro rata share of the net proceeds, if any, resulting from the future sale of our 700 MHz A block license in Chicago, which we refer to as the 700 MHz License. The Merger Agreement provides that, on the terms and subject to the conditions thereof, Merger Sub will be merged with and into Leap, with Leap continuing as the surviving corporation in the Merger (which we refer to as the Merger), and each outstanding share of common stock of Leap (other than excluded shares) will cease to be outstanding and will be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration. Subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions to closing, we expect to complete the proposed Merger with AT&T no later than the end of the first quarter of 2014.Each outstanding stock option, whether vested or unvested, that was granted under one of Leap's stock plans and that has an exercise price equal to or below the $15.00 per share cash merger consideration will be cancelled at the effective time of the Merger and will entitle the holder to receive (1) cash equal to the product of the total number of shares underlying the stock option multiplied by the difference, if any, of the per share cash merger consideration and the exercise price per share underlying each stock option, less any applicable withholding taxes and (2) one CVR for each share underlying the stock option. Holders of an outstanding stock option, whether vested or unvested, with an exercise price greater than the per share cash merger consideration, will have the opportunity to exercise such stock option prior to the effective time of the Merger by providing Leap with a notice of exercise and, for each share underlying the stock option, a cash amount equal to the difference of the exercise price underlying the stock option less the per share cash merger consideration. Each stock option that is so exercised will be settled at the effective time of the Merger and the holder will receive one CVR in respect of each share underlying the stock option and, to the extent the stock option is not exercised prior to the effective time of the Merger, the stock option will be cancelled at the effective time of the Merger for no consideration to the holder. Each outstanding share of restricted stock granted under Leap's stock plans will be cancelled at the effective time of the Merger and the holder will receive the per share cash merger consideration, less any applicable withholding taxes, plus one CVR in respect of such share of restricted stock. Each outstanding stock unit granted under Leap's stock plans (including performance stock units, deferred stock units and deferred cash units but excluding any cash award with a value that is not determined based on the price of Leap common stock), whether vested or unvested, will be cancelled and will entitle the holder to receive an amount in cash equal to the product of the number of shares covered by the unit (assuming target level of performance for any incomplete performance periods) multiplied by the per share cash merger consideration, less any applicable withholding taxes, plus one CVR in respect of such unit.Leap has made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including, among others, covenants not to solicit proposals relating to alternative transactions or enter into discussions concerning or provide information 3in connection with alternative transactions. On October 30, 2013, the Merger Agreement was adopted and approved by the requisite vote of Leap's stockholders at the special meeting of stockholders.Consummation of the Merger is subject to various customary conditions, including, among others, expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; approval of the transaction by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC; and approval of the transaction by applicable state public utility commissions. The parties have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals for the Merger, provided that AT&T will not be obligated to agree to divestitures or other restrictions that would have any effect on AT&T or to divestitures or other restrictions that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Leap and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. It is a condition to AT&T's obligation to consummate the Merger that the FCC approval has been obtained by final order and that other regulatory approvals have been obtained, in each case without the imposition of an adverse regulatory condition.The Merger Agreement also provides for certain termination rights, including the right of either party to terminate the Merger Agreement if the Merger is not consummated by July 11, 2014 (which we refer to in this report as the Termination Date, as it may be extended in certain circumstances to January 11, 2015).If the Merger Agreement is terminated because the Termination Date has been reached because there is an order of a governmental entity permanently preventing completion of the transaction or as a result of a breach by AT&T and AT&T's breach materially contributed to the failure to receive regulatory approval, and, at the time of such termination, all regulatory approvals have not been received or the transaction has been enjoined, Leap, subject to certain exceptions, will have the option within 30 days of termination of the Merger Agreement to enter into a three-year LTE data roaming agreement with AT&T, which will provide coverage in certain of Leap's markets not covered by Leap's LTE network. If Leap enters into the roaming agreement, AT&T will then have the option within 30 days after entry into the roaming agreement to purchase certain of Leap's spectrum assets. If AT&T does not exercise its right to purchase all of the specified spectrum assets, Leap may, within 60 days after expiration of AT&T's option, require AT&T to purchase all of the specified assets.More information regarding the Merger, including the CVR, is available in our other filings with the SEC, including the definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on September 17, 2013 and the additional soliciting materials filed with the SEC on October 18, 2013.Cricket Business OverviewCricket ServiceAs of December 31, 2013, Cricket service was offered in 48 states and the District of Columbia across an extended area covering approximately 292 million POPs. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 4.6 million customers, and we owned wireless licenses covering an aggregate of approximately 137.7 million POPs (adjusted to eliminate duplication from overlapping licenses). The combined network footprint in our operating markets covered approximately 97.1 million POPs as of December 31, 2013. The licenses we own provide an average of 23 MHz of spectrum capacity in our operating markets. In addition to our Cricket network footprint, we have entered into roaming relationships with other wireless carriers that enable us to offer Cricket customers nationwide voice and data roaming services (including 4G LTE roaming services) over an extended service area. In 2010 we entered into a wholesale agreement, which we use to offer Cricket services in a limited number of nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. Cricket Business Strategy •Deliver Superior Customer Experience. Because we offer monthly services without a fixed-term contract, we are required to earn our customers' business every month. As a result, we are focused on improving the experience we provide customers so that they choose to remain a Cricket customer for a longer period. We have improved our device activation process by spending more time with customers to help ensure that they understand and are comfortable with the device they are purchasing. We have also significantly improved the quality of our device portfolio in recent years, including introducing higher-end smartphones such as the iPhone® and Samsung Galaxy handsets. In addition, we are introducing improvements to the in-store experience we and our dealers provide our customers. We are also working to improve ways that we resolve customer service issues, including by introducing more self-service alternatives and improving the quality of call center services we provide. 4•Retain and Expand Our Customer Base by Providing Value. The foundation of our business is to provide unlimited, nationwide wireless services, and we design and market our products and services to appeal to customers seeking increased value. We continually update our product and service offerings to better meet the needs of our current customers and to attract and retain new ones, including customers who may have previously entered into contract-based service plans with other nationwide carriers. The service offerings we have introduced in recent years include Muve Music®, an unlimited music download service we offer that is designed specifically for mobile handsets, which we offer for no additional cost in service plans for our Android-based smartphones. We have also introduced Lifeline service offerings in a number of states, which provide qualifying low-income customers with a subsidized discount on their wireless service. We offer current and new customers a diverse handset line-up, ranging from higher-end smartphones to lower-cost feature phones. In addition, through a third party we have introduced a device financing program in our markets to help customers manage the cost of purchasing a handset. We plan to continue to develop our product and service offerings in 2014 and beyond. •Focus on Smart Investments. Our strategy is to be disciplined in pursuing investment initiatives and to remain focused on our position as a low-cost provider of wireless telecommunications. Beginning in the second half of 2012, we increased pricing on our devices in an effort to better manage device subsidies and promote the addition of longer-tenured customers, although such changes have also had the effect of decreasing gross customer additions. In addition, we have streamlined and reduced our number of dealer locations and Cricket-owned stores to increase sales activity for more productive locations and reduce costs. The extent to which these initiatives and others we may introduce will positively impact our future financial and operational results will depend upon our ability to anticipate and respond to competitors' initiatives, our continued efforts to enhance the productivity of our distribution channels, continued customer acceptance of our product and service offerings and our ability to retain and expand our customer base. Our current investment initiatives also include the ongoing maintenance, development and enhancement of our network and other business assets, including improving the 3G and LTE network coverage and capacity in existing markets. To date, we have covered approximately 21 million POPs with next-generation LTE network technology. However, given the significant decrease in the size of our customer base in recent quarters, our high level of indebtedness and the high cost of LTE deployment, we have generally determined not to deploy LTE network technology in additional markets at this time.Cricket Business OperationsCricket Products and ServicesCricket Wireless. Our Cricket Wireless service plans are designed to attract customers by offering simple, predictable and affordable nationwide voice and data services that are a competitive alternative to traditional wireless and wireline services. We offer service on a flat-rate, unlimited usage basis, without requiring fixed-term contracts, early termination fees or credit checks. Our most popular Cricket Wireless service plans bundle unlimited voice and data services, which include local and U.S. long distance, text messaging, mobile web, navigation, data back-up and other features. The service plans we currently offer are "all-inclusive," with telecommunication taxes and certain fees included within the service plan price. We also offer a flexible payment option, BridgePayTM, which gives our customers greater flexibility in the use of and payment for our Cricket Wireless service and which we believe helps us to retain customers.Muve Music. We also offer Muve Music, an unlimited music download service designed specifically for mobile handsets. We launched Muve Music in 2011 and the service is now offered for no additional cost in service plans for our Android-based smartphones. Muve Music was available to more than 2.3 million Cricket customers as of December 31, 2013 and is currently among the largest on-demand music subscription services in the U.S. as measured by the number of paid users.Cricket Lifeline. We participate in the federal government's Lifeline program, which provides support from the federal universal service fund, or USF, to subsidize discounted telecommunications services for qualified low-income consumers. Through our Cricket Lifeline program, we provide qualified customers with a monthly credit that they can apply to their phone service with us. In order to participate in the Lifeline program in any given state, a carrier must be designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier, or ETC, in that state. As of December 31, 2013, Cricket had been designated as an ETC in 28 states and the District of Columbia.5Cricket PAYGoTM. Cricket PAYGo is a pay-as-you-go, unlimited prepaid wireless service designed for customers who prefer the flexibility and control offered by traditional prepaid services. Monthly pay-as-you-go versions of our Cricket PAYGo product are generally available through nationwide retailers.Cricket Broadband. Cricket Broadband is our unlimited mobile broadband service offering and allows customers to access the internet through their computers for low, flat rates that vary depending upon the targeted amount of data that a customer expects to use during the month. These service plans are also "all-inclusive" and do not require long-term commitments or credit checks. The service is available in all Cricket markets as well as through nationwide retailers. As a result of strong customer adoption of our smartphones and other new handsets and devices, we have deemphasized our Cricket Broadband service and have experienced a substantial reduction in the number of customers subscribing to this service. We expect to continue to develop our product and service offerings in 2014 and beyond to better meet our customers' needs.DevicesOur current device portfolio ranges widely from higher-end smartphones to lower-cost feature phones. Our portfolio of devices provides features that include full web capabilities, mobile web browsers, picture-enabled caller ID, high-resolution cameras with digital zoom and flash, integrated FM radio and MP3 stereo, USB, infrared and Bluetooth connectivity, on-board memory and other features to facilitate digital data transmission. The higher-quality, higher-priced devices in our portfolio include devices manufactured by Apple, Samsung, HTC and others. We currently offer five LTE-compatible devices and expect to offer additional LTE devices in 2014.Beginning in the second half of 2012, we increased the average out-the-door selling price for our devices as part of our strategy to manage the amount we spend to subsidize devices we sell to new and current customers. In addition, through a third party we have introduced a device financing program in certain of our markets to help customers manage the cost of purchasing a device.Customer Care and Billing We outsource our call center operations to multiple call center vendors to manage the cost of providing care to our customers, while still maintaining the quality of our customer care. One of our strategic priorities is to continue to improve ways that we resolve customer service issues, including by introducing more self-service alternatives for customers and improving the quality of the call center services we provide. We are focused on improving the experience we provide our customers so that they choose to remain a Cricket customer for a longer period. We outsource our billing, device provisioning and payment systems to external vendors and also outsource bill presentment, distribution and fulfillment services. In recent years, we have upgraded a number of our significant, internal business systems, including implementing a new inventory management system, a new point-of-sale system and a new customer billing system. We believe that these systems have improved customer experience, increased our efficiency, enhanced our ability to provide products and services, enabled us to better scale our business operations and reduced our operating costs. Sales and Distribution Our sales and distribution strategy is designed to increase our market penetration, while minimizing expenses associated with sales, distribution and marketing, by focusing on improving the sales process for customers, and by offering easy-to-understand service plans and attractive device pricing and promotions. We sell our Cricket devices and service through direct and indirect channels of distribution. Our direct channel is comprised of our own Cricket retail stores. As of December 31, 2013, we had 168 direct locations, which were responsible for approximately 16% of our gross customer additions in 2013. In addition, we and third-party retailers also sell Cricket services over the internet. Our indirect channel consists of our authorized dealers and distributors, including premier dealers and local market authorized dealers. Premier dealers are independent dealers that sell Cricket products exclusively in stores that look and function similar to our company-owned stores, enhancing the in-store experience and the level of customer service and expanding our brand presence within a market. Premier dealers tend to generate significantly more business than other indirect dealers. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately 2,530 indirect dealer locations, of which approximately 2,100 were premier dealer locations.6Our indirect channel also includes national retail locations. Beginning in September 2011, we began to significantly expand our nationwide sales presence by offering Cricket products and services in thousands of nationwide retail locations. However, our mobile virtual network operator (MVNO) offering has fallen short of expectations. Accordingly, we determined to focus our efforts on those nationwide retailers that we believe provide the most attractive opportunities for our business. As a result, we reduced our total presence in the nationwide retail channel by nearly two-thirds, from approximately 13,000 locations at June 30, 2012 to approximately 5,100 locations at December 31, 2013. "Top-up" cards for our Cricket Broadband and Cricket PAYGo services are also available in approximately 6,200 convenience stores and other indirect outlets.We are focused on improving the productivity of our distribution system. We strategically select our direct and indirect retail locations to enable us to focus on our target customer demographic and provide the most efficient market coverage while minimizing cost. In addition, we are focused on building and maintaining brand awareness in our markets. We combine mass and local marketing strategies to build brand awareness for Cricket service within the communities we serve. In order to reach our target segments, we advertise primarily on television, radio and online and also use out-of-home marketing (such as billboards). We also maintain the Cricket website (www.mycricket.com) for informational, e-commerce and customer service purposes. Network Operations and Partnerships As of December 31, 2013, Cricket service was offered in 48 states and the District of Columbia across an extended area covering approximately 292 million POPs.Network OperationsWe offer Cricket service, in part, through a network footprint in our operating markets that covered approximately 97.1 million POPs as of December 31, 2013. We have deployed a high-quality network with CDMA2000® 1xRTT (referred to as CDMA 1xRTT) and CDMA2000 1xEV-DO (referred to as EvDO) capability. In addition, to date we have covered approximately 21 million POPs with next-generation LTE network technology. Our current investment initiatives include improving our 3G and LTE network coverage and capacity in existing markets. However, given the significant decrease in the size of our customer base in recent quarters, our high level of indebtedness and the high cost of LTE deployment, we have generally determined not to deploy LTE network technology in additional markets at this time.As of December 31, 2013, our wireless network consisted of approximately 9,600 cell sites (most of which were co-located on leased facilities) and 27 switches in 25 switching centers. A switching center serves several purposes, including routing calls, supervising call originations and terminations at cell sites, managing call handoffs and access to and from the public switched telephone network, or PSTN, and other value-added services. These locations also house platforms that enable services including text messaging, picture messaging, voice mail and data services. In operating our network, we monitor quality metrics, including dropped call rates and blocked call rates. We rely upon a network operations center, or NOC, to provide dedicated monitoring capabilities 24 hours a day, every day of the year, to ensure highly reliable service to our customers. We have outsourced the operation of our NOC to a third party in order to improve monitoring and reporting functions and to reduce costs associated with these operations. Our switches connect to the PSTN through fiber rings leased from third party providers, which facilitate the first leg of origination and termination of traffic between our equipment and both local exchange and long distance carriers. We have negotiated interconnection agreements with relevant exchange carriers in each of our markets. We use third party providers for long distance services and for backhaul services carrying traffic between our cell sites and switching centers.Roaming and Wholesale ServicesIn addition to utilizing our Cricket network footprint, we provide Cricket voice and data services through roaming and wholesale relationships that have enabled us to offer enhanced Cricket products and services, strengthen our retail presence in our existing markets and expand our distribution nationwide. We have entered into roaming relationships with national and regional wireless carriers that enable us to offer Cricket customers nationwide voice and data roaming services over an extended service area. We currently rely on one key carrier for 3G data roaming services and recently entered into an agreement with that carrier for 4G LTE roaming services. We have also entered into a wholesale agreement with an affiliate of Sprint Nextel, which we use to offer Cricket voice and data services in a limited number of nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. We recently amended 7that agreement to enable us to offer 4G LTE services. Since introducing our products in nationwide retailers in September 2011, our MVNO offering has fallen short of expectations. Accordingly, we determined to focus our efforts on those nationwide retailers that we believe provide the most attractive opportunities for our business. As a result, we reduced our total presence in the nationwide retail channel by nearly two-thirds, from approximately 13,000 locations at June 30, 2012 to approximately 5,100 locations at December 31, 2013.CompetitionThe wireless telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, voice-over-internet-protocol (VoIP) service providers, traditional landline service providers, cable companies and mobile satellite service providers. In addition, we may face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace. Competition in the wireless industry has increased and intensified in recent quarters, particularly from carriers and their affiliated brands with robust nationwide networks and significantly greater deployment of 4G LTE technology.Many of our competitors have greater advantages of scale, larger spectrum holdings, larger network footprints, access to greater amounts of capital, greater technical, sales, marketing and distribution resources, greater name and brand recognition and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. Many of our competitors also offer LTE services over a significantly larger geographic area than we do, enabling them to better meet increasing customer demand for higher data throughput speeds to support mobile applications and mobile broadband use. These advantages may allow our competitors to provide service offerings with more extensive features and options than those we currently provide; to offer the latest and most popular devices through exclusive vendor arrangements; to offer lower out-the-door pricing for smartphone devices by offering greater device subsidies than we do; to market to broader customer segments and offer service over larger geographic areas than we can; to offer bundled service offerings that include landline phone, television and internet services that we are not able to duplicate; to better attract and retain third-party dealers and distributors; and to purchase equipment, supplies, devices and services at lower prices than we can. As device selection and pricing become increasingly important to customers, any restriction on our ability to offer customers the latest and most popular devices as a result of exclusive dealings between device manufacturers and our larger competitors could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. We also anticipate that demand for CDMA-AWS handsets will decrease in the future and, as a result, that the selection of such handsets will diminish and prices will increase. In addition, further industry consolidation may result in vendors and suppliers devoting an increasing percentage of their time and resources to assisting larger wireless companies or terminating relationships with us. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, advantages that our competitors may have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide voice and data roaming services, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to some carriers' control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. These competitive pressures have continued to increase and intensify with recent market consolidation and other strategic transactions, including Verizon Wireless' acquisition of significant amounts of spectrum from SpectrumCo in August 2012, the combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS in April 2013 and Softbank's acquisition of an approximately 70% ownership position in Sprint in July 2013. In particular, we have been experiencing increased competition in many of our core Cricket markets from nationwide carriers increasingly targeting the prepaid segment, including from T-Mobile's nationwide expansion of the MetroPCS prepaid brand utilizing the T-Mobile 4G LTE network.The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry and the attractive growth prospects in the prepaid segment have caused a number of our competitors (including AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint and T-Mobile) to offer competitively-priced unlimited prepaid and postpaid service offerings. In addition, a number of carriers have begun to offer bundled service offerings comprised of unlimited voice service and fixed amounts of data that customers can share across all of their wireless devices. We also face additional competition in the prepaid segment from Lifeline service offerings, which are available to consumers at reduced costs (and in some cases at no cost) because carriers offering this service receive a subsidy payment from the federal USF program. These Lifeline service offerings are also being provided by new MVNO providers who are utilizing other carriers' networks.In addition to our voice offerings, many companies offer other products and services that compete with those we offer. For example, there are numerous music services that compete with our Muve Music service, including the iTunes service offered by 8Apple, and various streaming services offered by Rhapsody, Pandora, Spotify, Beats Music and others. These various service offerings have presented, and are expected to continue to present, strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap. The evolving competitive landscape has negatively impacted our financial and operating results in recent years, as evidenced by a 26.5% reduction in the total number of our customers between March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, to provide LTE-based services and meet increasing customer demand for high data throughput speeds, and to keep our costs low. Our competitiveness also will depend on our continued efforts to enhance the productivity of our distribution channels, continued customer acceptance of our product and service offerings and our ability to retain and expand our customer base. The evolving competitive landscape may result in more competitive pricing, higher costs, lower customer additions and higher customer turnover than we project. Any of these results or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Government Regulation Pursuant to its authority under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or the Communications Act, the FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. Congress also periodically revises or enacts laws affecting the telecommunications industry, as do state legislatures. Decisions by these bodies could have a significant impact on the competitive market structure among wireless providers and on the relationships between wireless providers and other carriers. These mandates may also impose significant financial, operational or service obligations on us and other wireless providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of legal or policy changes that could be adopted in these proceedings. Licensing of our Wireless Service Systems We hold broadband Personal Communications Services, or PCS, licenses, Advanced Wireless Services, or AWS, licenses and the 700 MHz License. The licensing rules that apply to these three categories of licenses are summarized below. PCS Licenses. A broadband PCS system operates under a license granted by the FCC for a particular market on one of six frequency blocks allocated for broadband PCS. Broadband PCS systems generally are used for two-way voice and data applications. Narrowband PCS systems, in contrast, generally are used for non-voice applications such as paging and data service and are separately licensed. The FCC has segmented the U.S. PCS markets into 51 large regions called major trading areas, or MTAs, which in turn are comprised of 493 smaller regions called basic trading areas, or BTAs. The FCC awards two broadband PCS licenses for each MTA and four licenses for each BTA. Thus, generally, six PCS licensees are authorized to compete in each area. The two MTA licenses authorize the use of 30 MHz of spectrum. One of the BTA licenses is for 30 MHz of spectrum, and the other three BTA licenses are for 10 MHz each. The FCC permits licensees to split their licenses and assign a portion to a third party on either a geographic or frequency basis or both. Over time, the FCC has also further split licenses in connection with re-auctions of PCS spectrum, creating additional 15 MHz and 10 MHz licenses. All PCS licensees must satisfy minimum geographic coverage requirements within five and, in some cases, ten years after the license grant date. These initial requirements are met for most 10 MHz licenses when a signal level sufficient to provide adequate service is offered to at least one-quarter of the population of the licensed area within five years, or in the alternative, a showing of substantial service is made for the licensed area within five years of being licensed. For 30 MHz licenses, a signal level must be provided that is sufficient to offer adequate service to at least one-third of the population within five years and two-thirds of the population within ten years after the license grant date. In the alternative, 30 MHz licensees may provide substantial service to their licensed area within the appropriate five- and ten-year benchmarks. "Substantial service" is defined by the FCC as service that is "sound, favorable, and substantially above a level of mediocre service which just might minimally warrant renewal." In general, a failure to comply with FCC coverage requirements could cause the revocation of the relevant wireless license, with no eligibility to regain it, or the imposition of fines and/or other sanctions. All PCS licenses have a 10-year term, at the end of which they must be renewed. Our PCS licenses began expiring in 2006 and will continue to expire through 2015. The FCC's rules provide a formal presumption that a PCS license will be renewed, called a "renewal expectancy," if the PCS licensee (1) has provided "substantial service" during its past license term, and (2) has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. If a licensee does not receive a renewal expectancy, then the FCC will accept competing applications for the license renewal period and, subject to a comparative hearing, may award the license to another party. If the FCC does not acknowledge a renewal expectancy with respect to one or more of our licenses, or renew one or more of our licenses, our business may be materially harmed.9 AWS Licenses. Recognizing the increasing consumer demand for wireless mobile services, the FCC has allocated additional spectrum that can be used for two-way mobile wireless voice, data and broadband services, including AWS spectrum. The FCC has licensed six frequency blocks consisting of one 20 MHz license in each of 734 cellular market areas, or CMAs; one 20 MHz license and one 10 MHz license in each of 176 economic areas, or EAs; and two 10 MHz licenses and one 20 MHz license in each of 12 regional economic area groupings, or REAGs. AWS licenses generally have a 15-year term, at the end of which they must be renewed. With respect to construction requirements, an AWS licensee must offer "substantial service" to the public at the end of the license term. As noted above, a failure to comply with FCC coverage requirements could cause the revocation of the relevant wireless license, with no eligibility to regain it, or the imposition of fines and/or other sanctions. Portions of the AWS spectrum that we hold were originally subject to use by U.S. government and/or incumbent commercial licensees. The FCC rules issued in connection with Auction #66 required winning bidders to avoid interfering with existing users or to clear incumbent users from the spectrum through specified relocation procedures. In connection with the launch of new markets, we worked with several incumbent government and commercial licensees to clear AWS spectrum. In the event that we determine to launch additional new markets in the future using AWS spectrum, or to enhance network coverage or capacity in other markets currently in operation, we may need to pursue further spectrum clearing efforts. Any failure to complete these efforts on time or on budget could delay implementation of any clustering and expansion strategies that we may decide to pursue.700 MHz License. Our 700 MHz License was purchased from Cellco Partnership dba Verizon Wireless, or Verizon Wireless, for $204 million in August 2012. The wireless spectrum covered by the 700 MHz License was previously occupied by television broadcast stations but was made available by the FCC for commercial and public safety services as a result of the digital television, or DTV, transition. The 700 MHz License was granted for a ten-year term expiring on June 13, 2019. Until recently, as a condition of obtaining the license, 700 MHz A block licensees were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to (1) at least 35% of the geographic area of the license within four years of the initial license grant, and (2) at least 70% of the geographic area of the license at the end of the license term. The licensee was also required to file construction notifications, all necessary supporting documentation and required certifications with the FCC to demonstrate compliance with these interim and end-of-term construction benchmarks. Any licensee that failed to meet the interim requirement within its license area would have its license term reduced from ten to eight years, thus requiring the licensee to meet the end-of-term benchmark at an accelerated schedule. Licensees that did not meet the interim construction benchmarks could also be subject to monetary forfeitures and the loss of authority to operate in part of the unserved area. For those licenses for which the end-of-term performance requirements had not been met, the unused portion of the license would terminate automatically without FCC action and would become available for reassignment, subject to the "keep-what-you-use" rule. We have been engaged in the first stages of development of the 700 MHz License. In connection with the development and operation of the license, we must coordinate with adjacent spectrum licensees to minimize interference from and into our mobile wireless service. One of the adjacent licensees in the lower 700 MHz E block, an affiliate of Dish Network, had been authorized to operate on its license at higher power levels than other lower 700 MHz licensees such as Leap that operate on different frequency blocks. In a recently issued FCC order, which we refer to as the 700 MHz Interoperability Order, the FCC altered the technical parameters of lower 700 MHz E block licenses, including lowering authorized E block licensee power levels. We and Dish Network have begun preliminary coordination efforts, and our preliminary analysis indicates that we should be able to coexist with E block operations that are consistent with the lower power levels in the 700 MHz Interoperability Order. However, once we or any subsequent purchaser of the 700 MHz License were to determine the parameters of our or its actual operations in the vicinity of Dish Network’s transmitter, we or such subsequent purchaser would need to coordinate such operations with Dish Network, and there can be no assurance that we or such purchaser would be successful in doing so.We must also coordinate with the incumbent broadcaster on DTV Channel 51 to reduce possible signal interference in order to commence operations using the 700 MHz License. Based upon third-party technical and statistical analyses we have commissioned, we do not believe there is any harmful interference between the 700 MHz License and DTV Channel 51 operations and have sought the concurrence of the incumbent broadcaster on DTV Channel 51. Because the incumbent broadcaster has not concurred with our determination to date, we have also filed a petition with the FCC seeking relief from the agency's DTV interference protection requirements. That petition has been vigorously opposed by the incumbent Channel 51 broadcaster, as well as by the broadcast trade association. The opponents have argued that we have not met the standard for a waiver of the FCC’s DTV protection criteria. The incumbent broadcaster has also argued that wireless operations using the 700 MHz License will cause severe 10interference with Channel 51 operations and has submitted its own technical analysis that contradicts the third-party reports we commissioned.It is also possible that any purported interference of the 700 MHz License operations with DTV Channel 51 operations could be eliminated by the future broadcast incentive spectrum auction that is currently expected to take place in 2015 or later, which may result in the movement of DTV Channel 51 to another spectrum band or other regulatory actions. For example, the FCC could revise its rules relating to interference between wireless operations and over-the-air broadcast service in ways that could facilitate usage of the 700 MHz License, including in connection with its current rulemaking proceeding for the future broadcast incentive spectrum auction. However, there can be no assurance that the FCC will grant relief on the terms we seek or at all, that any purported interference will be eliminated by the broadcast incentive spectrum auction or that any other regulatory action will be taken that will mitigate the purported interference or produce a more favorable operating environment for wireless carrier operations.If we (or following the closing of the Merger, the stockholders' representative) are not able to resolve interference issues affecting the license, including by coordinating with adjacent licensees, obtaining the concurrence of the broadcaster on DTV Channel 51 or regulatory action (including receiving a waiver from the FCC, the interference being eliminated as a result of the future broadcast incentive spectrum auction or other actions), the value of the 700 MHz License and the CVR could be materially and adversely affected and could be zero. In addition, the initiation of the broadcast incentive spectrum auction could cause carriers that participate in that auction to be subject to anti-collusion rules that historically have significantly constrained the ability of such carriers, during the pendency of the auction process, to participate in other discussions regarding acquiring aftermarket spectrum, like the 700 MHz License. Depending on the timing of the broadcast incentive spectrum auction, these anti-collusion rules could significantly constrain, for a period of time, the pool of possible purchasers of the 700 MHz License, which could materially and adversely affect the amount of proceeds realized on any sale of the 700 MHz License and thus the value of the CVR.The 700 MHz License also faces certain interoperability constraints. As an "A block" spectrum license, the 700 MHz License authorizes operations on frequency "Band Class 12," which is a band not widely used by other wireless communications carriers due, in part, to the DTV interference mentioned above. Since wireless handsets must be manufactured to operate on particular spectrum bands, this results in fewer handsets being manufactured for Band Class 12, making it more difficult for holders of A block licenses such as the 700 MHz License to achieve economies of scale when purchasing handsets. In addition, the ability to roam with a Band Class 12 handset is limited due to the limited use of Band Class 12 spectrum by wireless communications carriers. As a result, Band Class 12 handsets must contain additional hardware in order to roam on additional bands. This additional hardware typically adds size and cost to the handsets, making them less desirable for customers.In the 700 MHz Interoperability Order, the FCC adopted an industry compromise under which AT&T has agreed to take certain actions to promote device interoperability within the 700 MHz band, subject to certain conditions. These actions include AT&T’s agreeing to deploy Multi-Frequency Band Indicator, or MFBI, capabilities into its network by September 30, 2015, subject to an extension or waiver process. By that same date, under the compromise AT&T will begin a phased roll-out of devices capable of supporting Band Class 12 and will provide LTE roaming to carriers with compatible Band Class 12 devices, consistent with the FCC’s rules on roaming. In conjunction with the actions to be taken by AT&T, as discussed above, Dish Network has agreed to operate in accordance with lower power limits on its lower 700 MHz E block licenses. As discussed above, the 700 MHz License was originally subject to an interim construction deadline. The 700 MHz Interoperability Order generally extended the interim construction requirement for lower 700 MHz A and B block licensees until December 13, 2016 (three years from the current deadline) and eliminated the interim construction requirement entirely for lower 700 MHz A block licensees that warrant relief from Channel 51 operations. The final construction deadline of June 13, 2019 remains in effect. However, there can be no assurances that the interference and interoperability issues affecting the 700 MHz License will be suitably resolved or that the 700 MHz License ultimately will be sold for a value sufficient to generate a payment to CVR holders, or at all.Designated Entities. Since the early 1990's the FCC has pursued a policy in wireless licensing of attempting to assist various types of designated entities. The FCC generally has determined that designated entities who qualify as small businesses or very small businesses, as defined by a complex set of FCC rules, can receive additional benefits. These benefits can include eligibility to bid for certain licenses set aside only for designated entities. The FCC generally required holders of these licenses to meet certain maximum financial size qualifications for at least a five-year period. In addition, designated entities are eligible for bidding credits in most spectrum auctions and re-auctions, and, in some cases, an installment loan from the federal government for a significant portion of the dollar amount of the winning bids. A failure by an entity to maintain its qualifications to own licenses won through 11the designated entity program could cause a number of adverse consequences, including the ineligibility to hold licenses for which the FCC's minimum coverage requirements have not been met, and the triggering of FCC unjust enrichment rules, which could require the recapture of bidding credits and the acceleration of any installment payments owed to the U.S. Treasury. The FCC has implemented rules and policies to ensure that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. For example, designated entity structures are subject to a requirement that they seek approval for any event that might affect their ongoing eligibility (for example, changes in agreements that the FCC has previously reviewed), annual reporting requirements and a commitment by the FCC to audit each designated entity at least once during the license term. In addition, third parties and the federal government have in the past challenged certain designated entity structures, alleging violations of federal qui tam and other laws and seeking significant monetary damages. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes, federal court litigation surrounding designated entity structures, increased regulatory scrutiny or third party or government lawsuits will affect our prior investments in designated entities, future business ventures or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. Foreign Ownership. Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee's capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity (as is the case with Leap's ownership and control of subsidiaries that hold FCC licenses), up to 25% of that entity's capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our wireless licenses, although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or could take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage in order to avoid the loss of our licenses. We have no knowledge of any present foreign ownership in violation of these restrictions. Transfer and Assignment. The Communications Act and FCC rules require the FCC's prior approval of the assignment or transfer of control of a commercial wireless license, with limited exceptions. The FCC may prohibit or impose conditions on assignments and transfers of control of licenses. Non-controlling membership interests in an entity that holds a wireless license generally may be bought or sold without FCC approval. The FCC engages in a case-by-case review of transactions that involve the consolidation of spectrum licenses or leases and applies a spectrum "screen" in examining such transactions. This screen and the rules and criteria that the FCC uses for evaluating spectrum aggregation generally are under review in a pending FCC proceeding. Although we cannot assure you that the FCC will approve or act in a timely fashion upon any pending or future requests for approval of assignment or transfer of control applications that we file, in general we believe the FCC will approve or grant such requests or applications in due course. Because an FCC license is necessary to lawfully provide wireless service, if the FCC were to disapprove any such filing, our business plans would be adversely affected.FCC Regulation Generally The FCC has a number of other complex requirements and proceedings that affect our operations and that could increase our costs or diminish our revenues. For example, the FCC requires wireless carriers to make available emergency 911, or E911, services, including enhanced E911 services that provide the caller's telephone number and detailed location information to emergency responders, as well as a requirement that E911 services be made available to users with speech or hearing disabilities. Our obligations to implement these services occur on a market-by-market basis as emergency service providers request the implementation of enhanced E911 services in their locales. Absent a waiver, a failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to significant penalties. Furthermore, the FCC has initiated a comprehensive re-examination of E911 location accuracy and reliability requirements. In connection with this re-examination, the FCC issued an order requiring wireless carriers to satisfy E911 location and reliability standards at a geographical level defined by the coverage area of a Public Safety Answering Point, or PSAP, and has indicated that further action may be taken in future proceedings to establish more stringent, uniform location accuracy requirements across technologies, and to promote continuing development of technologies that might enable carriers to provide public safety with better information for locating persons in the event of an emergency. We cannot predict whether or how such actions will affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. FCC rules also require that local exchange carriers and most commercial mobile radio service providers, including providers like Cricket, allow customers to change service providers without changing telephone numbers. For wireless service providers, 12this mandate is referred to as wireless local number portability. The FCC also has adopted rules governing the porting of wireline telephone numbers to wireless carriers. The FCC has the authority to order interconnection between commercial mobile radio service operators and incumbent local exchange carriers, and FCC rules provide that all local exchange carriers must enter into compensation arrangements with commercial mobile radio service carriers for the exchange of local traffic, whereby each carrier compensates the other for terminating local traffic originating on the other carrier's network. As a commercial mobile radio services provider, we are required to pay compensation to a wireline local exchange carrier that transports and terminates a local call that originated on our network. Similarly, we are entitled to receive compensation when we transport and terminate a local call that originated on a wireline local exchange network. We negotiate interconnection arrangements for our network with major incumbent local exchange carriers and other independent telephone companies. If an agreement cannot be reached, under certain circumstances, parties to interconnection negotiations can submit outstanding disputes to state authorities for arbitration. Negotiated interconnection agreements are subject to state approval. The FCC's interconnection rules and rulings, as well as state arbitration proceedings, directly impact the nature and costs of facilities necessary for the interconnection of our network with other wireless telecommunications networks. They also determine the amount we receive for terminating calls originating on the networks of local exchange carriers and other telecommunications carriers. The FCC in recent years adopted comprehensive changes to its intercarrier compensation system, which include, among other things, the transition of all types of traffic to a bill-and-keep regime over a multi-year period, as well as a mechanism to offset the resulting revenue losses for incumbents. For wireless carriers, the FCC made the transition immediately, and adopted bill-and-keep as the default compensation for intra-MTA traffic exchanged between local exchange carriers, or LECs, and wireless carriers as of the effective date of the order. Various aspects of the FCC's intercarrier compensation regime are subject to review before the FCC, state regulatory bodies or federal or state courts. The outcome of such proceedings may affect the manner in which we are charged or compensated for the exchange of traffic. The FCC has adopted rules requiring commercial mobile radio service providers to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC has also adopted rules generally requiring carriers to offer data roaming services on commercially reasonable terms. These orders, however, do not provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates and require that roaming complaints be resolved on a case-by-case basis, based on a non-exclusive list of factors that can be taken into account in determining the reasonableness of particular conduct or rates. The FCC's data roaming order and rules were recently affirmed on appeal, although they are still subject to a petition for reconsideration at the FCC. Our inability to obtain these roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FCC has adopted an order codifying and supplementing its previous internet openness principles (sometimes referred to as "network neutrality" principles) into binding rules. These rules are intended to ensure that consumers are able to access the lawful internet content, applications, and services of their choice, and to attach non-harmful devices to the network. The rules also require greater transparency regarding providers' network management practices. The rules in this proceeding were recently vacated by a federal court and it is unclear whether the FCC will seek further judicial review or attempt to issue new rules. Any new rules would likely contain uncertainties that would require future case-by-case interpretation and enforcement by the FCC in specific complaints. Any new rules and pending review and complaint proceedings affecting their interpretation and enforcement could have significant operational implications for how we manage traffic on our network, the applications and devices that could be used on our networks, and our consumer disclosure practices. We cannot predict how any such rules, or their interpretation or enforcement, would affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The FCC has rules in place requiring interstate communications carriers, including commercial mobile wireless carriers, to contribute to a federal USF that reimburses communications carriers who are providing subsidized communications services to underserved areas and users. The FCC requires carriers to determine their percentage of traffic that is interstate or international and to make contributions based on the revenues associated with such traffic. Our failure to comply with our USF obligations could subject us to significant fines or forfeitures. The FCC is also considering whether to amend rules regarding USF contributions, and new requirements could result in increased contribution obligations for us and other carriers. We participate in the federal government's Lifeline program, which provides support from the USF to subsidize discounted telecommunications services for qualified low-income consumers. In order to participate in the Lifeline program in any given state, a carrier must be designated as an ETC in that state. As of December 31, 2013, Cricket had been designated as an ETC in 28 states and the District of Columbia. In January 2012, the FCC adopted an order regarding the Lifeline program, the stated purpose of which is to streamline the administration of the program and to implement measures to curb perceived waste, fraud 13and abuse in the program. In addition, various states are considering or enacting rules with similar stated purposes as the FCC order. In connection with the FCC's order, among other things, we are required to have our Lifeline customers re-certify on an annual basis their eligibility to participate in the program. These requirements could result in the loss of Lifeline customers and associated funding from the USF if these customers fail to meet the FCC's eligibility standards or fail to respond to requests to re-certify their eligibility. Further, the FCC is developing a National Lifeline Accountability Database, the primary purpose of which will be to validate the identity of Lifeline customers and prevent Lifeline support from being provided to more than one eligible recipient per household in accordance with FCC regulations. While the timing of the deployment of the database is uncertain, its implementation and use could reduce the number of customers we enroll in our Lifeline programs and thus the amount of Lifeline funding we receive. In addition, the FCC could pursue enforcement action against us and impose monetary penalties if it were to conclude that we violated any of the Lifeline rules. In addition, future action by Congress, the FCC, or the states in which we have been designated as an ETC could reduce or eliminate the amount of Lifeline funding we receive for providing wireless service to certain qualifying low income customers, which could result in the loss of subscribers and the associated service revenue.In November 2011, the FCC adopted an order establishing new universal service support mechanisms intended to support both voice and broadband services in high-cost areas, which would be funded through a new Connect America Fund, or CAF. Over time, these CAF mechanisms will replace legacy high-cost support mechanisms that currently provide funding to wireless carriers and other ETCs. The new CAF mechanisms place greater limits on the total amount of high-cost support available to wireless ETCs (as opposed to wireline incumbents). At the same time, the CAF mechanisms will reduce or eliminate available support in certain high-cost areas that benefit from competition. The CAF program has not yet been implemented fully, and the FCC has sought further public comment with respect to certain details of its implementation. For example, the FCC has stated its intent to distribute funds to wireless ETCs through a competitive auction mechanism but has not yet finalized the details of such a program. In addition, the FCC order establishing the CAF program is the subject of pending petitions for reconsideration filed with the FCC, as well as pending judicial appeals. As such, there is uncertainty as to how and when the CAF program will be implemented fully and how such implementation could impact wireless carriers and competition in local and national markets.We also are subject, or potentially subject, to numerous additional rules and requirements, including universal service obligations; number portability requirements; number pooling rules; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; roaming obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rate averaging and integration requirements; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. There are also pending proceedings exploring the possible re-imposition of bright-line spectrum aggregation requirements and/or adjustment of the FCC’s case-by-case spectrum screens; further regulation of special access used for wireless backhaul services; regulation surrounding the deployment of advanced wireless broadband infrastructure; the imposition of text-to-911 capabilities; and the transition to IP networks, among others. Some of these requirements and pending proceedings (of which the foregoing examples are not an exhaustive list) pose technical and operational challenges to which we, and the industry as a whole, have not yet developed clear solutions. These requirements generally are the subject of pending FCC or judicial proceedings, and we are unable to predict how they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.State, Local and Other Regulation Congress has given the FCC the authority to preempt states from regulating rates and entry into commercial mobile radio service. The FCC, to date, has denied all state petitions to regulate the rates charged by commercial mobile radio service providers. State and local governments are permitted to manage public rights of way and can require fair and reasonable compensation from telecommunications providers, on a competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, for the use of such rights of way by telecommunications carriers, including commercial mobile radio service providers, so long as the compensation required is publicly disclosed by the state or local government. States may also impose competitively neutral requirements that are necessary for universal service, to protect the public safety and welfare, to ensure continued service quality and to safeguard the rights of consumers. While a state may not impose requirements that effectively function as barriers to entry or create a competitive disadvantage, the scope of state authority to maintain existing requirements or to adopt new requirements is unclear. State legislators, public utility commissions and other state agencies are becoming increasingly active in efforts to regulate wireless carriers and the service they provide, including efforts to conserve numbering resources and efforts aimed at regulating service quality, advertising, warranties and returns, rebates, and other consumer protection measures. The location and construction of our wireless antennas and base stations and the towers we lease on which such antennas are located are subject to FCC and Federal Aviation Administration regulations, federal, state and local environmental and historic preservation regulations, and state and local zoning, land use or other requirements.14 The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, prohibits the circumvention of technological measures or access controls employed by or on behalf of copyright owners to protect their copyrighted works. However, under the DMCA, the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, has the authority to exempt for three-year periods certain circumventing activities that might otherwise be prohibited by the statute. In July 2010, the Copyright Office granted an exemption to the DMCA to allow the circumvention of software locks and other firmware that prohibit a wireless handset from connecting to a wireless network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the handset to another network. This exemption permitted locked handsets purchased from one wireless carrier to be unlocked and then activated on another carrier's network. On October 28, 2012, the Copyright Office issued a new exemption under the DMCA, which only permits the circumvention of software locks on handsets purchased before January 26, 2013. In order for locked devices purchased after this date to be connected to another carrier's network, the customer must obtain the prior carrier's consent to unlock the device. This new, narrowed exemption, and any further modification of the DMCA copyright exemption, could impact our ability to attract and activate new customers.We cannot assure you that any federal, state or local regulatory requirements currently applicable to our systems will not be changed in the future or that regulatory requirements will not be adopted in those states and localities that currently have none. Such changes could impose new obligations on us that could adversely affect our operating results.Privacy We are obligated to comply with a variety of federal and state privacy and consumer protection requirements. The Communications Act and FCC rules, for example, impose various rules on us intended to protect against the disclosure of customer proprietary network information. Other FCC and Federal Trade Commission rules regulate the disclosure and sharing of subscriber information. We have developed and comply with a policy designed to protect the privacy of our customers and their personal information. State legislatures and regulators are considering imposing additional requirements on companies to further protect the privacy of wireless customers. Our need to comply with these rules, and to address complaints by subscribers invoking them, could adversely affect our operating results. Intellectual Property We have pursued registration of our primary trademarks and service marks in the United States. Leap is a U.S. registered trademark and the Leap logo is a trademark of Leap. Cricket, Cricket with Stylized K, Cricket Wireless with Stylized K, Cricket Clicks, Color Green Trade Dress, Muve, Muve Music, Muve First, Muve Headliner, MyPerks, Flex Bucket, Real Unlimited Unreal Savings and the Cricket "K" are U.S. registered trademarks of Cricket. In addition, the following are trademarks or service marks of Cricket: BridgePay, Cricket By Week, Cricket Choice, Cricket Connect, Cricket Nation, Cricket PAYGo, Muve Money, Cricket Crosswave, Seek Music, Cricket MyPerks and Cricket Wireless Internet Service. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.We also have several patents and have several patent applications pending in the United States relating to telecommunications and related services. However, our business is not substantially dependent upon any of our patents or patent applications. We believe that our technical expertise, network technology, operational efficiency, cost structure and ability to introduce new products in a timely manner are more critical to maintaining our competitive position in the future. Availability of Public Reports As soon as is reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our proxy statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are available free of charge at www.leapwireless.com. They are also available free of charge on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. In addition, any materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied by the public at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The information on our website is not part of this report or any other report that we furnish to or file with the SEC. 15Financial Information Concerning Segments and Geographical Information Financial information concerning our operating segment and the geographic area in which we operate is included in "Part II - Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this report. Employees As of December 31, 2013, we had 2,984 employees. SeasonalityOur customer activity is influenced by seasonal effects related to traditional retail selling periods and other factors that arise in connection with our target customer base. Based on historical results, we generally expect new sales activity to be highest in the first and fourth quarters, although during 2012 we experienced our lowest customer activity during the fourth quarter due, in part, to handset price increases that we introduced in the third quarter. Based on historical results, we also generally expect churn to be highest in the third quarter and lowest in the first quarter. Sales activity and churn, however, can be strongly affected by other factors, including changes in the competitive landscape, service plan pricing, device availability, economic conditions, and high unemployment (particularly in the lower-income segment of our customer base), any of which may either offset or magnify certain seasonal effects. Customer activity can also be strongly affected by promotional and retention efforts that we undertake. For example, from time to time, we lower the price on select smartphones for customers who activate a new line of service and then transfer phone numbers previously used with other carriers. This type of promotion is intended to drive significant, new customer activity for our smartphone handsets and their accompanying higher-priced service plans. We also frequently offer existing customers the opportunity to activate an additional line of voice service on a previously activated Cricket device not currently in service. Customers accepting this offer receive a free first month of service on the additional line of service after paying an activation fee. We also utilize retention programs to encourage existing customers whose service may have been suspended for failure to timely pay to continue service with us for a reduced or free amount for a limited period of time. In addition, during holiday and other key selling periods, we may also increase device subsidies to try to generate additional sales volume. The design, size and duration of our promotional and retention programs vary over time in response to changing market conditions. We believe that our promotional and retention efforts, including those efforts described above, have generally provided and continue to provide important long-term benefits to us, including by helping us attract new customers for our wireless services or by extending the period of time over which customers use our services, thus allowing us to obtain additional revenue from handsets we have already sold. The success of any of these activities depends upon many factors, including the costs that we incur to attract or retain customers and the length of time these customers continue to use our services. Sales activity that would otherwise have been expected based on seasonal trends can also be negatively impacted by factors we have experienced in the past such as billing system disruptions, promotional and retention efforts not performing as expected, device quality issues, and inventory shortages.InflationWe believe inflation has not had a material effect on our results of operations.Item 1A.Risk FactorsRisks Related to the MergerFailure to Consummate the Merger, or a Delay in Consummating the Merger, Could Negatively Impact the Market Price of Leap Common Stock and Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Consummation of the Merger is subject to various customary conditions, including, among others, the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; approval of the transaction by the FCC; and approval of the transaction by applicable state public utility commissions. The parties have agreed to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals for the Merger, provided that AT&T will not be obligated to agree to divestitures or other restrictions that would have any effect on AT&T or to divestitures or other restrictions that would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Leap and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. It is a condition to AT&T's obligation to consummate the Merger that the FCC approval has been obtained by final order and that other regulatory approvals have been obtained, in each case without the imposition of an adverse regulatory condition.16If the Merger is not consummated, our ongoing business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected and the market price of Leap common stock may decline significantly, particularly to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the Merger will be consummated. The evolving competitive landscape has negatively impacted our financial and operating results in recent quarters, as evidenced by a 26.5% reduction in the total number of our customers between March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013, which resulted in significant declines in our service revenues and cash generated from operations. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, to provide LTE-based services and meet increasing customer demand for high data throughput speeds, and to keep our costs low. If the Merger is not completed as expected, and if we are unable to successfully respond to the competitive environment and we continue to lose customers at our current pace, we project that we will need to generate additional capital resources by mid-2015. Under such circumstances, we expect that we would be required to take actions to increase our liquidity, such as significantly reducing operating activities and associated operating expenses, significantly delaying or reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, including spectrum not currently utilized in our business operations or other business assets, or pursuing capital or credit markets activities. However, there can be no assurances that we would be successful in any such efforts or that any or all of these actions would be sufficient to allow us to fund our liquidity needs. Furthermore, we currently have limited capacity to incur additional debt under our senior secured credit agreement, or the Credit Agreement, and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes, and we do not forecast having increases in such capacity in the near term or beyond. The evolving competitive landscape may also result in more competitive pricing, higher costs, lower customer additions and higher customer turnover than we project, any of which results or actions could materially adversely impact our capital requirements and require that we generate additional capital resources sooner than we currently project. As a result, failure to consummate the Merger, or any significant delay in consummating the Merger, including by a delay in receipt of necessary governmental approvals, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Are Subject to Various Uncertainties and Contractual Restrictions While the Merger Is Pending That Could Disrupt the Conduct of Our Business and Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Uncertainty about the effect of the Merger on employees, customers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, dealers, retailers and content and application providers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These uncertainties may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel, distributors, dealers and retailers pending the consummation of the Merger, as such personnel, distributors, dealers and retailers may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the consummation of the Merger. Additionally, these uncertainties could cause customers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, dealers, retailers, content and application providers and others who deal with us to seek to change existing business relationships with us or fail to extend an existing relationship with us. In addition, competitors may target our existing customers by highlighting potential uncertainties and integration difficulties that may result from the Merger. We have a small number of key personnel. The pursuit of the Merger and the preparation for the integration may place a burden on management and internal resources. Any significant diversion of management attention away from ongoing business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts us from taking certain actions without AT&T's consent while the Merger is pending. These restrictions may, among other matters, prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities, selling assets, including spectrum not currently utilized in our business operations or other business assets, incurring indebtedness, engaging in significant capital expenditures in excess of our capital budget, entering into other transactions or making other changes to our business prior to consummation of the Merger or termination of the Merger Agreement. These restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The Consideration to be Paid in the Merger is Fixed and Will Not Be Adjusted for Changes in Our Business, Assets, Liabilities, Prospects, Outlook, Financial Condition or Results of Operations, or in the Event of any Change in Our Stock Price. The Value of the CVRs May Depend on the Resolution of Interference and Interoperability Issues and the Sale of Our Chicago Spectrum, and We Make No Assurance as to the Value, if Any, That May Be Realized from the CVRs.The Merger Consideration is fixed in the Merger Agreement and will not be adjusted for changes in our business, assets, liabilities, prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations, or changes in the market price of, analyst estimates of, or projections relating to, Leap common stock. For example, if we experienced an improvement in our business, assets, liabilities, 17prospects, outlook, financial condition or results of operations prior to the consummation of the Merger, there would be no adjustment to the amount of the Merger Consideration.The amount of cash, if any, realized with respect to the CVR portion of the Merger Consideration and the timing of any payments made to Leap stockholders with respect to CVRs may be dependent on our ability and the ability of the stockholder representative to resolve interference and interoperability issues with respect to our 700 MHz License in Chicago and effect a sale of the license. There is no guarantee that any such interference or interoperability issues can be resolved or that any such sale will be effected at a value sufficient to generate a payment to CVR holders, or at all, and accordingly, Leap stockholders may not realize any proceeds from the CVR portion of the Merger Consideration.Our 700 MHz License in Chicago Is Subject to Interference and Interoperability Issues, Which Could Delay or Impede the Realization of Value of the CVRs for Leap Stockholders or, if the Merger Is Not Consummated, Our Ability to Expand Our Service Capacity in the Chicago Market.Our 700 MHz License was purchased from Verizon Wireless for $204 million in August 2012. The wireless spectrum covered by the 700 MHz License was previously occupied by television broadcast stations but was made available by the FCC for commercial and public safety services as a result of the DTV transition. The 700 MHz License was granted for a ten-year term expiring on June 13, 2019. Until recently, as a condition of obtaining the license, 700 MHz A block licensees were required to provide signal coverage and offer service to (1) at least 35% of the geographic area of the license within four years of the initial license grant, and (2) at least 70% of the geographic area of the license at the end of the license term. The licensee was also required to file construction notifications, all necessary supporting documentation and required certifications with the FCC to demonstrate compliance with these interim and end-of-term construction benchmarks. Any licensee that failed to meet the interim requirement within its license area would have its license term reduced from ten to eight years, thus requiring the licensee to meet the end-of-term benchmark at an accelerated schedule. Licensees that did not meet the interim construction benchmarks could also be subject to monetary forfeitures and the loss of authority to operate in part of the unserved area. For those licenses for which the end-of-term performance requirements had not been met, the unused portion of the license would terminate automatically without FCC action and would become available for reassignment, subject to the "keep-what-you-use" rule. We have been engaged in the first stages of development of the 700 MHz License. In connection with the development and operation of the license, we must coordinate with adjacent spectrum licensees to minimize interference from and into our mobile wireless service. One of the adjacent licensees in the lower 700 MHz E block, an affiliate of Dish Network, had been authorized to operate on its license at higher power levels than other lower 700 MHz licensees such as Leap that operate on different frequency blocks. In a recently issued FCC order, which we refer to as the 700 MHz Interoperability Order, the FCC altered the technical parameters of lower 700 MHz E block licenses, including lowering authorized E block licensee power levels. We and Dish Network have begun preliminary coordination efforts, and our preliminary analysis indicates that we should be able to coexist with E block operations that are consistent with the lower power levels in the 700 MHz Interoperability Order. However, once we or any subsequent purchaser of the 700 MHz License were to determine the parameters of our or its actual operations in the vicinity of Dish Network’s transmitter, we or such subsequent purchaser would need to coordinate such operations with Dish Network, and there can be no assurance that we or such purchaser would be successful in doing so.We must also coordinate with the incumbent broadcaster on DTV Channel 51 to reduce possible signal interference in order to commence operations using the 700 MHz License. Based upon third-party technical and statistical analyses we have commissioned, we do not believe there is any harmful interference between the 700 MHz License and DTV Channel 51 operations and have sought the concurrence of the incumbent broadcaster on DTV Channel 51. Because the incumbent broadcaster has not concurred with our determination to date, we have also filed a petition with the FCC seeking relief from the agency's DTV interference protection requirements. That petition has been vigorously opposed by the incumbent Channel 51 broadcaster, as well as by the broadcast trade association. The opponents have argued that we have not met the standard for a waiver of the FCC’s DTV protection criteria. The incumbent broadcaster has also argued that wireless operations using the 700 MHz License will cause severe interference with Channel 51 operations and has submitted its own technical analysis that contradicts the third-party reports we commissioned.It is also possible that any purported interference of the 700 MHz License operations with DTV Channel 51 operations could be eliminated by the future broadcast incentive spectrum auction that is currently expected to take place in 2015 or later, which may result in the movement of DTV Channel 51 to another spectrum band or other regulatory actions. For example, the FCC could revise its rules relating to interference between wireless operations and over-the-air broadcast service in ways that could facilitate usage of the 700 MHz License, including in connection with its current rulemaking proceeding for the future broadcast incentive 18spectrum auction. However, there can be no assurance that the FCC will grant relief on the terms we seek or at all, that any purported interference will be eliminated by the broadcast incentive spectrum auction or that any other regulatory action will be taken that will mitigate the purported interference or produce a more favorable operating environment for wireless carrier operations.If we (or following the closing of the Merger, the stockholders' representative) are not able to resolve interference issues affecting the license, including by coordinating with adjacent licensees, obtaining the concurrence of the broadcaster on DTV Channel 51 or regulatory action (including receiving a waiver from the FCC, the interference being eliminated as a result of the future broadcast incentive spectrum auction or other actions), the value of the 700 MHz License and the CVR could be materially and adversely affected and could be zero. In addition, the initiation of the broadcast incentive spectrum auction could cause carriers that participate in that auction to be subject to anti-collusion rules that historically have significantly constrained the ability of such carriers, during the pendency of the auction process, to participate in other discussions regarding acquiring aftermarket spectrum, like the 700 MHz License. Depending on the timing of the broadcast incentive spectrum auction, these anti-collusion rules could significantly constrain, for a period of time, the pool of possible purchasers of the 700 MHz License, which could materially and adversely affect the amount of proceeds realized on any sale of the 700 MHz License and thus the value of the CVR.The 700 MHz License also faces certain interoperability constraints. As an "A block" spectrum license, the 700 MHz License authorizes operations on frequency "Band Class 12," which is a band not widely used by other wireless communications carriers due, in part, to the DTV interference mentioned above. Since wireless handsets must be manufactured to operate on particular spectrum bands, this results in fewer handsets being manufactured for Band Class 12, making it more difficult for holders of A block licenses such as the 700 MHz License to achieve economies of scale when purchasing handsets. In addition, the ability to roam with a Band Class 12 handset is limited due to the limited use of Band Class 12 spectrum by wireless communications carriers. As a result, Band Class 12 handsets must contain additional hardware in order to roam on additional bands. This additional hardware typically adds size and cost to the handsets, making them less desirable for customers.In the 700 MHz Interoperability Order, the FCC adopted an industry compromise under which AT&T has agreed to take certain actions to promote device interoperability within the 700 MHz band, subject to certain conditions. These actions include AT&T’s agreeing to deploy Multi-Frequency Band Indicator, or MFBI, capabilities into its network by September 30, 2015, subject to an extension or waiver process. By that same date, under the compromise AT&T will begin a phased roll-out of devices capable of supporting Band Class 12 and will provide LTE roaming to carriers with compatible Band Class 12 devices, consistent with the FCC’s rules on roaming. In conjunction with the actions to be taken by AT&T, as discussed above, Dish Network has agreed to operate in accordance with lower power limits on its lower 700 MHz E block licenses.As discussed above, the 700 MHz License was originally subject to an interim construction deadline. The 700 MHz Interoperability Order generally extended the interim construction requirement for lower 700 MHz A and B block licensees until December 13, 2016 (three years from the current deadline) and eliminated the interim construction requirement entirely for lower 700 MHz A block licensees that warrant relief from Channel 51 operations. The final construction deadline of June 13, 2019 remains in effect. However, there can be no assurances that the interference and interoperability issues affecting the 700 MHz License will be suitably resolved or that the 700 MHz License ultimately will be sold for a value sufficient to generate a payment to CVR holders, or at all.Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future. We experienced a net loss of $603.5 million, $187.3 million and $317.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. We may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis or at all. Our strategic objectives depend on our ability to successfully and cost-effectively operate our markets, on our ability to forecast and respond appropriately to changes in the competitive and economic environment, on the successful enhancement of our distribution channels, and on customer acceptance of our Cricket product and service offerings. If we fail to attract and retain additional customers for our Cricket products and services and fail to achieve consistent profitability in the future, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.19Our Strategic Plans Require that We Retain and Grow Our Current Customer Base; Our Failure to Do So Negatively Affects Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook.We experienced a 26.5% reduction in the total number of our customers between March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. In addition, our growth has varied substantially in the past. We believe that the recent customer losses and the uneven growth we have experienced generally reflect increased and intensified competition in the wireless telecommunications market, increasing customer demand for the high data throughput speeds available on 4G LTE networks, promotional activity, seasonal trends in customer activity and varying national economic conditions. Our ability to retain and grow our customer base and to achieve increased customer penetration levels in our markets is subject to a number of risks, including, among other things: increased competition; challenges in managing or increasing our network capacity or service offerings to meet increasing customer demand; the LTE technology deployment alternatives available to us; the defection of third-party dealers and distributors to competitors; promotional or retention activities that do not perform as expected; device quality, availability and selection issues; inventory shortages; device pricing; unfavorable economic conditions (which may have a disproportionate negative impact on portions of our customer base); our inability to successfully enhance our distribution channels; billing or other system or service disruptions; adverse changes in the legislative and regulatory environment; and other factors that may limit our ability to grow our customer base. Our strategic plans depend heavily upon the efforts of our authorized dealers, distributors and national retail partners, which together constitute the significant majority of our sales and distribution presence. If we are unable to offer customers compelling products and services, we could lose distribution partners. If we continue to lose customers or are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, that failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The Operation of Our Business Requires a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our business requires that we generate a significant amount of cash flow from operations to fund ongoing liquidity requirements, including payments on our indebtedness. Our ability to generate cash flow from operations is subject to our operational performance and to general competitive, economic, financial, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our service revenues have significantly declined in recent quarters, primarily due to our net customer losses. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our ongoing liquidity needs. If cash flow from operations is insufficient, we may be required to take actions, such as significantly reducing operating activities and associated operating expenses, significantly delaying or reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, including spectrum not currently utilized in our business operations or other business assets, or pursuing capital or credit markets activities. However, there can be no assurances that we would be successful in any such efforts or that any or all of these actions would be sufficient to allow us to fund our liquidity needs. In addition, our ability to undertake these actions may be restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement unless consented to by AT&T. Furthermore, we currently have limited capacity to incur additional debt under our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes, and we do not forecast having increases in such capacity in the near term or beyond.We Face Significant Competition, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for Cricket Service.The wireless telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, VoIP service providers, traditional landline service providers, cable companies and mobile satellite service providers. In addition, we may face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace. Competition in the wireless industry has increased and intensified in recent quarters, particularly from carriers and their affiliated brands with robust nationwide networks and significantly greater deployment of 4G LTE technology.Many of our competitors have greater advantages of scale, larger spectrum holdings, larger network footprints, access to greater amounts of capital, greater technical, sales, marketing and distribution resources, greater name and brand recognition and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. Many of our competitors also offer LTE services over a significantly larger geographic area than we do, enabling them to better meet increasing customer demand for higher data throughput speeds to support mobile applications and mobile broadband use. These advantages may allow our competitors to provide service offerings with more extensive features and options than those we currently provide; to offer the latest and most popular devices through exclusive vendor arrangements; to offer lower out-the-door pricing for smartphone devices by offering greater device subsidies than we do; to market to broader customer segments and offer service over larger geographic areas than we can; to offer bundled service offerings that include landline phone, television and internet services that we are not able to duplicate; to better attract and retain third-party dealers and distributors; and to purchase equipment, supplies, devices and services at lower prices than we can. As device selection and pricing become increasingly important to customers, any restriction on our ability to offer 20customers the latest and most popular devices as a result of exclusive dealings between device manufacturers and our larger competitors could put us at a significant competitive disadvantage and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers. We also anticipate that demand for CDMA-AWS handsets will decrease in the future and, as a result, that the selection of such handsets will diminish and prices will increase. In addition, further industry consolidation may result in vendors and suppliers devoting an increasing percentage of their time and resources to assisting larger wireless companies or terminating relationships with us. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, advantages that our competitors may have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide voice and data roaming services, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to some carriers' control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services.These competitive pressures have continued to increase and intensify with recent market consolidation and other strategic transactions, including Verizon Wireless' acquisition of significant amounts of spectrum from SpectrumCo in August 2012, the combination of T-Mobile and MetroPCS in April 2013 and Softbank's acquisition of an approximately 70% ownership position in Sprint in July 2013. In particular, we have been experiencing increased competition in many of our core Cricket markets from nationwide carriers increasingly targeting the prepaid segment, including from T-Mobile's nationwide expansion of the MetroPCS prepaid brand utilizing the T-Mobile 4G LTE network.The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications industry and the attractive growth prospects in the prepaid segment have caused a number of our competitors (including AT&T, Verizon Wireless, Sprint and T-Mobile) to offer competitively-priced unlimited prepaid and postpaid service offerings. In addition, a number of carriers have begun to offer bundled service offerings comprised of unlimited voice service and fixed amounts of data that customers can share across all of their wireless devices. We also face additional competition in the prepaid segment from Lifeline service offerings, which are available to consumers at reduced costs (and in some cases at no cost) because carriers offering this service receive a subsidy payment from the federal universal service fund, or USF, program. These Lifeline service offerings are also being provided by new MVNO providers who are utilizing other carriers' networks.In addition to our voice offerings, many companies offer other products and services that compete with those we offer. For example, there are numerous music services that compete with our Muve Music service, including the iTunes service offered by Apple, and various streaming services offered by Rhapsody, Pandora, Spotify, Beats Music and others. These various service offerings have presented, and are expected to continue to present, strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap.The evolving competitive landscape has negatively impacted our financial and operating results in recent years, as evidenced by a 26.5% reduction in the total number of our customers between March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, to provide LTE-based services and meet increasing customer demand for high data throughput speeds, and to keep our costs low. Our competitiveness will also depend on our continued efforts to enhance the productivity of our distribution channels, continued customer acceptance of our product and service offerings and our ability to retain and expand our customer base. The evolving competitive landscape may result in more competitive pricing, higher costs, lower customer additions and higher customer turnover than we project. Any of these results or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The Wireless Industry Is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change; Many of Our Facilities-Based Competitors Have Deployed Next-Generation LTE Technology Across a Substantial Portion of Their Network Footprint.The wireless communications industry continues to experience significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products, and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. Our continued success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and to offer, on a timely basis, services that meet customer demands.Many of our facilities-based competitors have deployed next-generation LTE network technology across a substantial portion of their network footprint and have the spectrum depth to be able to provide faster data throughput speeds on their LTE networks than we can. If we are unable to offer our customers cost-effective LTE services to meet increasing customer demand for higher data throughput speeds to support mobile applications and mobile broadband use, such failure would have a material adverse effect on our competitive position and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the pace and scope at which 21we offer LTE services could impact us in a number of ways. If we are unable to offer customers LTE services to the extent provided by other wireless carriers, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers for our wireless products and services, providing customers with attractive handset offerings and procuring cost-effective vendor support for our network infrastructure.Deployment of LTE through facilities-based coverage requires significant capital investment. To date, we have covered approximately 21 million POPs in our network footprint with LTE technology. However, given the significant decrease in the size of our customer base in recent quarters, our high level of indebtedness and the high cost of LTE deployment, we have generally determined not to deploy LTE network technology in additional markets at this time.If we decide to pursue further facilities-based coverage in the future, we expect that we would likely be required over time to acquire or access additional spectrum or take other actions to enable us to provide LTE at service levels that would meet future customer expectations. We currently own an average of 23 MHz of spectrum capacity in the markets we operate, which generally includes an initial spectrum reserve that we could use to deploy LTE network technology. The national wireless carriers against which we compete generally have greater spectrum capacity than we do in the markets in which we would launch LTE. Because the efficiency of an LTE network and the peak speeds that it can deliver depend upon the amount of contiguous spectrum that is available, competitors who have access to more spectrum than we do are likely to offer faster speeds for their next-generation services and operate those networks more efficiently than we could. As a result, we may be required to take various actions to meet consumer demand, including acquiring additional spectrum, entering into third-party wholesale or roaming arrangements, leasing additional cell sites, spending additional capital to deploy equipment or other actions. We cannot assure you that we would be able to take any of these actions at reasonable costs, on a timely basis or at all.We recently entered into a nationwide roaming agreement for LTE services. In addition, we amended our wholesale agreement to enable us to purchase LTE services. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or renew these arrangements or enter into additional agreements on a cost-effective basis. There are also risks that other wireless carriers on whose networks our customers roam may change their technology to other technologies or pursue standards that are incompatible with ours. If these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.In June 2013, T-Mobile announced that the migration of legacy MetroPCS customers onto its HSPA+ and LTE network was ahead of schedule and that T-Mobile expected to complete migration by the end of 2015. The shutdown of the legacy MetroPCS CDMA network is likely to result in Leap being the sole U.S. carrier operating a CDMA network on AWS frequencies. As a result, we anticipate that demand for CDMA-AWS handsets will decrease in the future and, as a result, that the selection of such handsets will diminish and prices will increase. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to cost-effectively procure AWS-compatible devices in the future.We cannot predict which of the many possible future technologies, standards, products or services will be important to maintain our competitive position. The evolutionary path that we may select may not be demanded by customers or provide the advantages that we expect. If such services are not broadly adopted within the industry or commercially accepted by our customers, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the cost of implementing or competing against alternative or future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes.General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Performance or Ability to Obtain Financing on Reasonable Terms or at All.Our business and financial performance are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, energy costs and other macro-economic factors. Market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging in recent years. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a long-term downturn, high unemployment, high energy costs, the availability and cost of credit and unstable housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and economic uncertainty. These factors have led to a decrease in spending in recent years by businesses and consumers alike.Continued market turbulence and weak economic conditions may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or pass a credit check, our service is available to a broad customer base and may be attractive to a market segment that is more vulnerable to weak economic conditions. As a result, during general economic downturns, we may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this 22base for our services and existing customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay. For example, high unemployment levels have historically impacted our customer base, especially the lower-income segment of our customer base, by decreasing their discretionary income and affecting their ability to maintain service. Continued weak economic conditions and tight credit conditions may also adversely impact our vendors and dealers, some of which have filed for or may be considering bankruptcy, or may experience cash flow or liquidity problems, any of which could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market or sell our products and services. Sustained difficult, or worsening, general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, U.S. credit markets have in recent years experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions. Because our $1,813.9 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement bears interest at a floating rate, significant adverse changes and trends in interest rates could materially impact our borrowing costs. In addition, uncertainty in the capital markets could negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. General economic conditions, combined with intensified competition in the wireless telecommunications industry and other factors, have also adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, which could significantly limit our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Have Entered into Agreements with Significant Purchase Commitments and Cannot Guarantee that We Will Meet These Commitments or Realize the Expected Benefits from These Agreements.iPhone Purchase Commitment In May 2012, we entered into a three-year iPhone purchase commitment with Apple. The commitment began upon our launch of sales of the iPhone in June 2012. Based on our current handset purchase and sales mix and current iPhone device pricing, we estimate that the commitment would require us to purchase approximately $800 million of iPhones, with annual commitments during the three-year period that increase moderately in the second and third years.We purchased approximately one-half of our first-year minimum purchase commitment through June 2013, which purchases were approximately $100 million below our first-year minimum purchase commitment. Due to our efforts to expand sales volume for the iPhone, we have not been required to purchase additional handsets to meet our first-year minimum purchase commitment. Based on our current network footprint and product offerings, we currently estimate that our iPhone purchases for the second year would be approximately $200 million below our second-year minimum purchase commitment and our purchases for the third year would be approximately $300 million below our third-year minimum purchase commitment. We believe that we would be able to increase our current iPhone sales rate and purchase and sell the total required number of devices over the three-year period of the commitment and for a subsequent inventory sell-through period of 12 to 18 months. The actual amount that we spend and the number of devices that we purchase over the term of the commitment will depend on many factors, including customer acceptance and availability of current and future versions of the device, future costs for the device, the success of our marketing and advertising efforts, customer demand for devices offered by other manufacturers and other factors. If our proposed Merger with AT&T is not completed as expected, and we were required to meet the annual minimum commitment in any year of the contract term and we were unable to sell such additional devices at the rates and prices we project, such shortfall could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Wholesale AgreementIn August 2010, we entered into a wholesale agreement with an affiliate of Sprint, which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint. We have agreed, among other things, to purchase a minimum of $300 million of wholesale services over the initial five-year term of the agreement, with the following annual minimum purchase commitments: $20 million in 2011; $75 million in 2012; $80 million in 2013; $75 million in 2014; and $50 million in 2015. We entered into an amendment to the wholesale agreement in February 2013 to enable us to purchase 4G LTE services. In addition, under the amendment, we can credit up to $162 million of revenue we provide Sprint under other existing commercial arrangements against the minimum purchase commitment. Any wholesale revenue we provide to Sprint in a given year above the minimum purchase commitment for that particular year is credited to the next succeeding year. However, to the extent the revenues we provide Sprint were to fall beneath the applicable commitment amount for any given year, excess revenues from a subsequent year could not be carried back to offset such shortfall.23Other AgreementsIn recent years we have entered into other agreements with significant purchase commitments, including agreements with music content providers, which required us to purchase certain minimum amounts of content for our Muve Music service. We may enter into additional agreements with vendors with significant purchase commitments in the future to enable us to offer enhanced products and services or to obtain more favorable overall purchasing terms and conditions.There are numerous risks and uncertainties that could impact our ability to realize the expected benefits from these arrangements or any new ones we may enter into. We cannot guarantee that customers will accept our products and service offerings at the levels we expect, that prices will not decline to levels below what we have negotiated to pay or that we will be able to satisfy any purchase commitments. Since introducing our products in nationwide retailers in September 2011, our MVNO offering has fallen short of expectations. As a result, we significantly reduced the number of locations in which we offer our products in the nationwide retail channel from approximately 13,000 locations at June 30, 2012 to approximately 5,100 locations at December 31, 2013, which may impact our sales volumes and therefore the amount of services we may purchase under the wholesale agreement. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to renew these agreements or any future agreement on terms that will be acceptable to us. If we are unable to attract new wireless customers and sell our products and services at the levels we expect, our ability to derive benefits from these agreements or any future agreement we enter into could be limited, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us from Fulfilling Our Obligations. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness Prior to Maturity.We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness was $3,662.1 million, including $1,813.9 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding borrowings under our Credit Agreement, $248.2 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.50% convertible senior notes due 2014 and $1,600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 7.75% senior notes due 2020.Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could: •make it more difficult for us to service or refinance our debt obligations;•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, network build-out and other activities, including acquisitions and general corporate purposes;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and•place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, any significant capital expenditures or increased operating expenses associated with the launch of new product or service offerings or other business investment initiatives will decrease OIBDA and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness.In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to repay or refinance all or any portion of our indebtedness prior to its maturity. If we are unable to repay or refinance our indebtedness as planned, we will likely be required to take additional actions to generate liquidity such as significantly reducing operating activities and associated operating expenses, significantly delaying or reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, including spectrum not currently utilized in our business operations or other business assets, or pursuing credit or capital markets activities. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all.24Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We May Incur Additional Indebtedness, Which Could Further Increase the Risks Associated with Our Leverage.The terms of our Credit Agreement, and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. The indenture governing Leap's convertible senior notes does not limit our ability to incur debt. We currently have limited capacity to incur additional debt under our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes, and we do not forecast having increases in such capacity in the near term or beyond. We may, however, incur additional indebtedness in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business investment initiatives, which could consist of debt financing from the public and/or private credit or capital markets. However, our ability to undertake these transactions may be restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement unless consented to by AT&T. If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. In addition, depending on the timing and extent of any additional indebtedness that we could incur and our then-current consolidated leverage ratio, such additional amounts could potentially result in the issuance of adverse credit ratings affecting us and/or our outstanding indebtedness. Any future adverse credit ratings could make it more difficult or expensive for us to borrow in the future and could affect the trading prices of our senior notes, our convertible senior notes and our common stock.Covenants in Our Credit Agreement and Indentures or in Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business.Our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to make distributions or other payments to our investors or subordinated creditors unless we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, our Credit Agreement and indenture include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens or other encumbrances;•place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries;•pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments;•issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;•issue guarantees;•sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates; and•make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity.The restrictions in our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar or more onerous restrictions.We currently have limited capacity to incur additional debt under our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket's senior notes, and we do not forecast having increases in such capacity in the near term or beyond. If our proposed Merger with AT&T is not completed as expected, and if we are unable to successfully respond to the competitive environment and we continue to lose customers at our current pace, our limited ability to incur additional debt as a source of liquidity could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our Credit Agreement also provides for an event of default upon the occurrence of a change of control, which includes the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 35% or more of Leap's equity securities (except for a transaction where immediately after such transaction Leap will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of a person of which no person or group is the beneficial owner of 35% or more of such person's voting stock), a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of Leap and its restricted subsidiaries and a 25change in a majority of the members of Leap's board of directors that is not approved by the board. In addition, under the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain "change of control" events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder's notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The change in control resulting from the Merger would not constitute a "change of control" under our Credit Agreement or the indenture governing the notes because immediately after such transaction Leap will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of a person of which no person or group is the beneficial owner of 35% or more of such person's voting stock. However, the Merger, if consummated, would trigger the right of holders of Leap's 4.50% convertible senior notes due 2014 to require Leap to repurchase holders' notes at a repurchase price of 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, thereon to the repurchase date.If we default under our Credit Agreement or any of the indentures governing our senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a waiver should any default occur. Any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition, and we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under our Credit Agreement or the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes. If Customer Usage of Our Services Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operating Expenses.Because we offer unlimited voice, data, mobile broadband and music download services for a flat monthly rate, our customers' average usage of these services per month is significant. We provide these services through our own Cricket network footprint and through roaming and wholesale agreements that we entered into with other carriers.If customers exceed expected usage for our voice, data, mobile broadband or music download services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high rates of usage for our services, and we continue to assess and seek to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. We currently manage our network and users of our smartphones and Cricket Broadband service by limiting throughput speeds if usage exceeds certain thresholds. However, if future wireless use by Cricket customers increases faster than we anticipate and exceeds the then-available capacity of our network, service quality may suffer. In addition, our roaming or wholesale costs may be higher than we anticipate. Depending on the extent of customers' future use of our network and the roaming and wholesale services we provide, we may be forced to raise the price or alter the service offerings of our wireless or mobile broadband services, further limit data quantities or speeds, otherwise limit the number of new customers for certain services, acquire additional spectrum and/or incur substantial additional capital expenditures to enhance network capacity or quality.We May Be Unable to Obtain or Maintain the Roaming and Wholesale Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive.Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. The networks we operate do not, by themselves, provide national coverage and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming and wholesale services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with one key carrier for our voice roaming and 3G and 4G data roaming services. We have also entered into a wholesale agreement, which we use to offer Cricket services in nationwide retailers outside of our current network footprint, and we amended that agreement to enable us to purchase 4G LTE services. Most of our roaming agreements cover voice but not data services and some of these agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. The FCC has adopted rules requiring commercial mobile radio service providers to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC has also adopted rules generally requiring carriers to offer data roaming services on commercially reasonable terms. Despite the adoption of these rules, however, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to some carriers' control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. In addition, these rules do not provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates and require that roaming complaints be resolved on a case-by-case basis, based on a non-exclusive list of factors that can be taken into account in determining the reasonableness of particular conduct or rates. Furthermore, the 26FCC's data roaming order is subject to a petition for reconsideration at the FCC. In light of the current FCC rules, orders and proceedings, if we were unexpectedly to lose the benefit of one or more key roaming or wholesale agreements, we may be unable to obtain similar replacement agreements and as a result may be unable to continue providing nationwide voice and 3G or 4G data roaming services for our customers or may be unable to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. Our inability to obtain new or replacement roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or on a Timely Basis.We expect that we will need to acquire or access additional spectrum in the future to satisfy increasing demand for data and mobile broadband services, to maintain an acceptable grade of service and to provide or support new services or technologies to meet increasing customer demands. We cannot assure you that additional spectrum will become available at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost, or at all. Furthermore, even if it were to become available, we may not have sufficient capital resources or sufficient capacity under our existing debt instruments to acquire additional spectrum that we may require to meet customer demands and remain competitive. In addition, the FCC may impose conditions on the use of new wireless broadband mobile spectrum, such as heightened build-out requirements or open access requirements, which may make it less attractive or uneconomical for us. If we are unable to acquire or obtain access to additional spectrum in the future to meet customer demands, such inability may materially and adversely affect our competitive position and our business, financial condition and results of operations.We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure or Inability by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Products or Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition.We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products and services we purchase or use. However, we currently rely on one key vendor for billing services, a single vendor to support the platform for our Muve Music service, a single vendor for the operation of our network operations center, a limited number of vendors for voice and data communications transport services and a limited number of vendors for payment processing services. We have also entered into an inventory logistics and supply chain outsourcing arrangement with a third party to manage the planning, purchasing and fulfillment of handsets and other devices. We have also recently entered into outsourcing agreements to transition various network operations, IT and service desk functions to new vendors.In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors, service providers or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply or provide services to us in the future, or if we experience delays, disruptions or service degradation during any transition to a new outsourcing provider or other vendor, our business could be severely disrupted. In addition, the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier or service provider to another could cause further disruptions if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers or service providers with those from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Risks Associated With Wireless Devices Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture devices or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their devices to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the devices we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally seek to enter into indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with devices to protect us from direct losses associated with product liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective.Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. We are currently 27a defendant in a matter brought by an individual alleging that one of our wireless handsets caused brain cancer. The World Health Organization's International Agency for Research of Cancer has also stated that exposure to wireless handsets may be carcinogenic. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, anti-lock brakes, hearing aids and other medical devices. The FCC has indicated that it plans to gather additional data regarding handset emissions and has opened a proceeding to evaluate whether any changes to radio frequency exposure limits are necessary. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that have overheated.Concerns over possible health and safety risks associated with radio frequency emissions, future determinations that such risks exist or defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services, or result in regulatory restrictions or increased requirements on the location and operation of cell sites, which could increase our operating expenses. If one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by a manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions.There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless devices while operating vehicles or equipment. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation, rules or regulations that have been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service.System Failures, Security Breaches, Business Disruptions and Unauthorized Use or Interference with Our Network or Other Systems Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation.Our network and information technology (IT) infrastructure and the infrastructure of our vendors (including systems supporting service activation, billing, point of sale, inventory management, customer care and financial reporting) are vulnerable to damage and disruption from technology failures, power surges or outages, system or equipment failures, natural disasters, fires, human error, hacking and cyber attacks, computer viruses, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing and similar events. In particular, cyber attacks on companies, including our company, have increased in frequency, scope and potential harm in recent years. Any such failure, damage or disruption could affect the quality of our services, cause network service interruptions and result in material remediation costs, litigation, higher churn, reduced revenue, increased costs and lost market share. Unauthorized access to or use of customer or account information, including credit card or other personal data, could also result in harm to our customers and legal actions against us, and could damage our reputation. In addition, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, fires and other unforeseen natural disasters or events could materially disrupt our business operations or the provision of Cricket service in one or more markets. In the past, our operations in certain markets have been adversely affected by hurricanes and related weather systems. Costs we incur to restore, repair or replace our network or IT infrastructure, as well as costs associated with detecting, monitoring or reducing the incidence of unauthorized use and other security breaches, may be substantial and increase our cost of providing service. Any failure in, damage to or disruption of our or our vendors' network and IT infrastructure could also materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of the above events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues, increased costs and reputational harm, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We Have Upgraded a Number of Significant Business Systems, Including Our Customer Billing System, and Any Unanticipated Difficulties, Delays or Interruptions Could Negatively Impact Our Business.During recent years, we have upgraded a number of our significant, internal business systems, including implementing a new customer billing system, a new inventory management system and a new point-of-sale system.The implementation of significant new systems often involves delays and disruptions in connection with the transition to and operation of the new systems. From time to time after the launch of our customer billing system in the second quarter of 2011, we experienced intermittent disruptions with certain aspects of the system, which limited our ability to activate new customers and to provide account services to current customers. We believe that these system issues had the effect of reducing our gross customer additions and increasing churn. Although we believe that we largely identified and remedied the causes of these disruptions, we still experience intermittent outages with our customer billing system from time to time and we cannot assure you that we will not experience additional disruptions in the future. Future significant difficulties in operating our customer billing system or other systems could materially impact our ability to attract and retain customers or to timely and accurately record, process and report information that is important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience decreased gross 28customer additions, higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs or could suffer material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition, we cannot guarantee that these systems will improve our business operations, including our ability to manage and control device inventories. We implemented the inventory management system to assist us with the planning, purchasing and fulfillment of handsets and other devices. Prior to implementing this system, we experienced inventory shortages from time to time, most notably with certain of our strongest-selling devices, and these shortages had the effect of limiting customer activity. There can be no assurance that this system will improve device inventory management or that we will not experience inventory shortages in the future. Any failure to effectively manage and control our device inventories could adversely affect our ability to gain new customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We May Not Be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights.We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which offer only limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide us with any competitive advantages. In addition, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. Our inability to secure trademark or service mark protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Use Equipment, Software, Technology and Content in the Operation of Our Business, Which May Subject Us to Third-Party Infringement Claims. The technologies used in the telecommunications industry are protected by and subject to a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers based on our or their general business operations and the equipment, software, technology or other content that we or they use or provide. Over the past several years, we have become subject to increased amounts of litigation, including disputes alleging patent and other intellectual property infringement relating to the operation of our networks and our sale of handsets and other devices. If plaintiffs in any patent litigation that may be brought against us were to prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, and we could be required to alter the way we conduct business to avoid future infringement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.In addition, we rely on third-party intellectual property and digital content to provide certain of our wireless services to customers, including Muve Music, an unlimited music download service we offer that is designed specifically for mobile handsets. The Muve Music service requires us to license music and other intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot guarantee that these licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our licensing arrangements with these third parties are generally short-term in nature and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Our inability to continue to offer customers a wide variety of content at reasonable costs to us could limit the success of our Muve Music service. In addition, we could become subject to infringement claims and potential liability for damages or royalties related to music and intellectual property rights of third parties, including as a result of any unauthorized access to the third-party content we have licensed.We generally seek to enter into indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and vendors who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to help protect us against possible infringement claims. However, we do not have indemnification arrangements with all of our partners and suppliers. In addition, to the extent that there is an indemnification arrangement in place, depending on the nature and scope of a possible claim, we may not be entitled to seek indemnification under the terms of the agreement. We also cannot guarantee that the financial condition of an indemnifying party 29would be sufficient to protect us against all losses associated with infringement claims or that we would be fully indemnified against all possible losses associated with a possible claim. In addition, our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that could prevent or make it more expensive for them to supply us with the products and services we require to run our business, which could have the effect of slowing or limiting our ability to introduce products and services to our customers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software and services provided by different vendors, which we combine to offer our services, may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim against us or a supplier is valid or successful, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or requiring us to redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, infringement claims against our suppliers could also require us to purchase products and services at higher prices or from different suppliers and could adversely affect our business by delaying our ability to offer certain products and services to our customers.Action by Congress or Government Agencies and Regulatory Requirements May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services.The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. In addition, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. We also cannot assure you that Congress will not amend the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, or enact other legislation in a manner that could be adverse to us. Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee's capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity (as is the case with Leap's ownership and control of subsidiaries that hold FCC licenses), up to 25% of that entity's capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our wireless licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or could take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage in order to avoid the loss of our licenses, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such a ruling or that any other actions we may take would be successful.In addition, legislative or regulatory action could be taken that could limit our ability to use certain foreign vendors to supply us with equipment, materials or other services that we use in our business operations. For example, we previously acquired network equipment from a Chinese company (Huawei), which is currently used to support approximately 20% of our covered POPs. Members of the U.S. Congress and certain regulatory agencies have raised concerns about American companies purchasing equipment and software from Chinese telecommunications companies, including concerns relating to alleged violations of intellectual property rights by Chinese companies and potential security risks posed by U.S. companies purchasing technical equipment and software from Chinese companies. In October 2012, the U.S. House of Representatives Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued a report asserting that network equipment manufactured by Chinese telecommunications companies poses a security threat to the United States and recommending the use of other network vendors. The report also recommends that Congress consider adopting legislation to address the purported risk posed by telecommunications companies with nation-state ties. Media outlets have reported that Huawei is planning to cease selling network equipment in the United States. Any legislative or regulatory requirement that restricts us from purchasing or utilizing equipment or software from Huawei or other Chinese or other foreign companies, any determination by such suppliers to cease doing business in the United States, or any determination that we otherwise make that it is advantageous for us to cease doing business with these companies could require changes in our equipment procurement activities and business operations and make it more difficult for us to maintain our network and other assets.30The DMCA prohibits the circumvention of technological measures or access controls employed by or on behalf of copyright owners to protect their copyrighted works. However, under the DMCA, the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress, or the Copyright Office, has the authority to exempt for three-year periods certain circumventing activities that might otherwise be prohibited by the statute. In July 2010, the Copyright Office granted an exemption to the DMCA to allow the circumvention of software locks and other firmware that prohibit a wireless handset from connecting to a wireless network when such circumvention is accomplished for the sole purpose of lawfully connecting the handset to another network. This exemption permitted locked handsets purchased from one wireless carrier to be unlocked and then activated on another carrier's network. On October 28, 2012, the Copyright Office issued a new exemption under the DMCA, which only permits the circumvention of software locks on handsets purchased before January 26, 2013. In order for locked devices purchased after this date to be connected to another carrier's network, the customer must obtain the prior carrier's consent to unlock the device. This new, narrowed exemption, and any further modification of the DMCA copyright exemption, could impact our ability to attract and activate new customers, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We participate in the federal government's Lifeline program, which provides support from the USF to subsidize discounted telecommunications services for qualified low-income consumers. In order to participate in the Lifeline program in any given state, a carrier must be designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier, or ETC, in that state. As of December 31, 2013, Cricket had been designated as an ETC in 28 states and the District of Columbia. In January 2012, the FCC adopted an order regarding the Lifeline program, the stated purpose of which is to streamline the administration of the program and to implement measures to curb perceived waste, fraud and abuse in the program. In addition, various states are considering or enacting rules with similar stated purposes as the FCC order. In connection with the FCC's order, among other things, we are required to have our Lifeline customers re-certify on an annual basis their eligibility to participate in the program. These requirements could result in the loss of Lifeline customers and associated funding from the USF if these customers fail to meet the FCC's eligibility standards or fail to respond to requests to re-certify their eligibility. Further, the FCC is developing a National Lifeline Accountability Database, the primary purpose of which will be to validate the identity of Lifeline customers and prevent Lifeline support from being provided to more than one eligible recipient per household in accordance with FCC regulations. While the timing of the deployment of the database is uncertain, its implementation and use could reduce the number of customers we could enroll in our Lifeline programs and thus reduce the amount of Lifeline funding we receive. In addition, the FCC could pursue enforcement action against us and impose monetary penalties if it were to conclude that we violated any of the Lifeline rules. In addition, future action by Congress, the FCC, or the states in which we have been designated as an ETC could reduce or eliminate the amount of Lifeline funding we receive for providing wireless service to certain qualifying low income customers, which could result in the loss of subscribers and the associated service revenue.We previously invested in various entities that qualified as "very small business" designated entities under FCC regulations. The FCC's rules restricted our ability to acquire controlling membership interests in designated entities during the period that such entities were required to maintain their eligibility as a designated entity. The FCC has implemented rules and policies to ensure that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the designated entity program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. For example, designated entity structures are subject to a requirement that they seek approval for any event that might affect their ongoing eligibility (for example, changes in agreements that the FCC has previously reviewed), annual reporting requirements and a commitment by the FCC to audit each designated entity at least once during the license term. In addition, third parties and the federal government have in the past challenged certain designated entity structures, alleging violations of federal qui tam and other laws and seeking significant monetary damages. If we previously failed to comply with the FCC's designated entity rules, any such failure could lead to fines, and in extreme cases, license revocation, third-party lawsuits and/or criminal penalties. Federal court litigation surrounding designated entity structures, increased regulatory scrutiny or third party or government lawsuits with respect to our prior investments in designated entities could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.We also are subject, or potentially subject, to numerous additional rules and requirements, including universal service obligations; number portability requirements; number pooling rules; rules governing billing, subscriber privacy and customer proprietary network information; roaming obligations; rules that require wireless service providers to configure their networks to facilitate electronic surveillance by law enforcement officials; rate averaging and integration requirements; rules governing spam, telemarketing and truth-in-billing; and rules requiring us to offer equipment and services that are accessible to and usable by persons with disabilities, among others. There are also pending proceedings exploring the possible re-imposition of bright-line spectrum aggregation requirements and/or adjustment of the FCC’s case-by-case spectrum screens; further regulation of special access used for wireless backhaul services; regulation surrounding the deployment of advanced wireless broadband infrastructure; the imposition of text-to-911 capabilities; and the transition to IP networks, among others. Some of these requirements and pending 31proceedings (of which the foregoing examples are not an exhaustive list) pose technical and operational challenges to which we, and the industry as a whole, have not yet developed clear solutions. These requirements generally are the subject of pending FCC or judicial proceedings, and we are unable to predict how they may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition, certain states in which we provide service are considering legislation that would require companies selling prepaid wireless services to verify a customer's identity using government identification. Although we request identification from new customers, we currently do not require them to provide identification in order to initiate service with us, and such a requirement could adversely impact our ability to attract new customers for our services.Our operations are subject to various other laws and regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, other federal agencies and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, legislation or governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business.Our Wireless Licenses Are Subject to Renewal and May Be Revoked in the Event That We Violate Applicable Laws.Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10-year or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our Personal Communications Services, or PCS, wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that timely files a renewal application, has provided substantial service during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. Historically, the FCC has approved our license renewal applications. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. In addition, if we fail to timely file to renew any wireless license, or fail to meet any regulatory requirements for renewal, including construction and substantial service requirements, we could be denied a license renewal. Many of our wireless licenses are subject to interim or final construction requirements and there is no guarantee that the FCC will find our construction, or the construction of prior licensees, sufficient to meet the build-out or renewal requirements. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. The FCC has pending a rulemaking proceeding to re-evaluate, among other things, its wireless license renewal showings and standards and may in this or other proceedings promulgate changes or additional substantial requirements or conditions to its renewal rules, including revising license build-out requirements. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. If any of our wireless licenses were to be revoked or not renewed upon expiration, we would not be permitted to provide services under that license, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.Wireless Licenses Comprise a Significant Portion of our Assets; Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Licenses Could Result in Impairment Charges.As of December 31, 2013, the carrying value of our wireless licenses was approximately $2.1 billion. These assets by their nature, however, may not be readily saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for us to sell, or for any remedies to be exercised by our lenders with respect to, our wireless licenses, and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses. In addition, the amount that we could realize upon any sale of our wireless licenses could materially differ from their carrying value. Valuation swings could occur for a variety of reasons relating to supply and demand, including consolidation in the wireless industry that allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their spectrum holdings, a sudden, large sale of spectrum by one or more carriers, or a decline in market prices as a result of the sale prices in FCC auctions.We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including our wireless licenses, annually during the third quarter of each year. We also evaluate on a quarterly basis whether any triggering events or changes in circumstances have occurred subsequent to the annual impairment test that would indicate an impairment condition exists. We estimate the fair value of our wireless licenses primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions, pricing trends among historical wireless license transactions, our spectrum holdings within a given market relative to other carriers' holdings and qualitative demographic and economic information concerning the areas that comprise our markets. No impairment charges were recorded for the years ended December 31, 2013 or December 31, 322012 with respect to our wireless licenses. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.4 million with respect to our wireless licenses. A significant impairment loss in any future period could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet.We Are Subject to Numerous Surcharges, Taxes and Fees from Federal, State and Local Governments, and the Applicability and Amount of These Fees Can Be Uncertain. We calculate and remit surcharges, taxes and fees to numerous federal, state and local jurisdictions in connection with the services we provide. These fees include federal USF fees and common carrier regulatory fees. In addition, many state and local governments impose various surcharges, taxes and fees on our activities, including with respect to sales of our products and services and to our purchases of telecommunications services from various carriers. In many cases, the applicability and method of calculating these surcharges, taxes and fees may be uncertain, and our calculation, assessment and remittance of these amounts may be contested. In the event that we have incorrectly assessed and remitted amounts that were due, we could be subject to fines and penalties, which could materially impact our financial condition. In addition, although we remit applicable surcharges, taxes and fees that are due with respect to the services we provide, we do not recover these amounts (other than sales taxes) as additional charges from customers subscribing to our "all-inclusive" service plans, which are priced to include telecommunications taxes and certain other fees. In the event that federal, state and/or local municipalities were to significantly increase taxes and regulatory fees on our services or seek to impose new ones, it could have a significant adverse effect on our margins and financial and operational results.We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of local exchange carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party, and any intermediary or transit carrier, for the use of their networks. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some local exchange carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. Some of these carriers have threatened to pursue, have initiated, or may in the future initiate, claims against us to recover these charges, and the outcome of any such claims is uncertain.The FCC has been considering whether a unified intercarrier compensation regime can or should be established for all traffic exchanged between carriers, including commercial mobile radio services carriers. The FCC has instituted a uniform, national bill-and-keep framework for telecommunications traffic exchanged with a local exchange carrier, which will be phased in under a multi-year transition period. There are also various other pending proceedings in the courts, at the FCC and before state regulatory bodies that may affect intercarrier compensation. New or modified intercarrier compensation rules, federal or state proceedings implementing or interpreting those rules and other judicial or regulatory decisions may increase the charges we are required to pay other carriers for terminating calls or transiting calls over telecommunications networks, increase the costs of, or make it more difficult to negotiate, new agreements with carriers, decrease the amount of revenue we receive for terminating calls from other carriers on our network, or result in significant costs to us for past and future termination charges. Any of these changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.We resell third party long distance services in connection with our offering of unlimited international long distance service. The charges for these services may be subject to change by the terminating or interconnecting carrier, or by the regulatory body having jurisdiction in the applicable foreign country. If the charges are modified, the terminating or interconnecting carrier may attempt to assess such charges retroactively on us or our third party international long distance provider. If such charges are substantial, or we cease providing service to the foreign destination, prospective customers may elect not to use our service and current customers may choose to terminate service. Such events could limit our ability to grow our customer base, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Will Decrease.Our operating costs could increase substantially as a result of fraud, including customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the incidence of the types of fraud we have identified. However, we continue to identify instances of fraud and undertake measures to address and prevent the recurrence of the fraudulent activities we identify. If our strategies are 33not successful in detecting and controlling fraud, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting, Integrating and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed.Our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our chief executive officer, or CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson. In February 2012, we hired Robert A. Strickland as our chief technical officer. In May 2012, we hired Jerry V. Elliott as our chief financial officer, or CFO, and in November 2012 appointed him as president and chief operating officer. In November 2012, we hired R. Perley McBride as our CFO. In May 2013, we hired Julie Dexter Berg as our chief marketing officer.As several members of senior management have been hired in the past few years, it may take time to fully integrate these individuals into their roles. In addition, if we were to lose the services of key individuals in the future, any such departures could materially and adversely impact how we manage and operate our business. We may also have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance. Our Ability to Use Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards to Reduce Future Possible Tax Payments Could Be Negatively Impacted if There Is an "Ownership Change" (as Defined Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code); Our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan May Not Be Effective to Prevent an Ownership Change. We have substantial federal and state net operating losses, or NOLs, for income tax purposes. Subject to certain requirements, we may "carry forward" our federal NOLs for up to 20 years to offset future taxable income and reduce our income tax liability. For state income tax purposes, the NOL carryforward period ranges from five to 20 years. During the year ended December 31, 2013, $69.8 million of our state NOLs expired. At December 31, 2013, we had federal and state NOLs of approximately $3.1 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively (which begin to expire in 2022 for federal income tax purposes and of which $92.8 million will expire at the end of 2014 for state income tax purposes). While these NOL carryforwards have a potential to be used to offset future ordinary taxable income and reduce future cash tax liabilities by approximately $1.2 billion, our ability to utilize these NOLs will depend upon the availability of future taxable income during the carryforward period along with any impacts resulting from the Merger and, as such, there is no assurance we will be able to realize such tax savings.Our ability to utilize NOLs could be further limited if we were to experience an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. In general terms, an ownership change can occur whenever there is a cumulative shift in the ownership of a company by more than 50 percentage points by one or more "5% stockholders" within a three-year period, which would include the ownership change that would result from the Merger. The occurrence of such a change in our ownership would generally limit the amount of NOL carryforwards we could utilize in a given year to the aggregate fair market value of Leap common stock immediately prior to the ownership change, multiplied by the long-term tax-exempt interest rate in effect for the month of the ownership change.The determination of whether an ownership change has occurred for purposes of Section 382 is complex and requires significant judgment. The occurrence of such an ownership change would accelerate cash tax payments we would be required to make and likely result in a substantial portion of our NOLs expiring before we could fully utilize them. As a result, any restriction on our ability to utilize these NOL carryforwards could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and future cash flows.On August 30, 2011, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to help deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that could result in an ownership change under Section 382 and thus help preserve our ability to use our NOL carryforwards. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan was approved by our stockholders in May 2012. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that would result in a stockholder owning 4.99% or more of Leap common stock (as calculated under Section 382), or any existing holder of 4.99% or more of Leap common stock acquiring additional shares, by substantially diluting the ownership interest of any such stockholder unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our board of directors. Because the number of shares of Leap common stock outstanding at any particular time for purposes of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is determined in accordance with Section 382, it may differ from the number of shares that we report as outstanding 34in our SEC filings. On July 12, 2013, Leap entered into an amendment to the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to provide that neither the approval, execution or delivery of the Merger Agreement, the related voting agreement executed by MHR or any amendments thereof or agreements in connection therewith, nor the consummation of transactions or entry into any agreements contemplated thereby, including the Merger, will (i) cause the rights under the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to become exercisable or entitle a holder of the rights to exercise such rights, (ii) cause AT&T or MHR or any of their affiliates or associates to become an "Acquiring Person" under the terms of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, or (iii) give rise to a Distribution Date or a Stock Acquisition Date (as such terms are defined in the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan). Other than as described above, the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan remains in effect and continues to apply to acquisitions of Leap common stock.Although the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an adverse ownership change under Section 382, the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan may not prevent such an ownership change from occurring and does not protect against all transactions that could cause an ownership change, such as sales of Leap common stock by certain greater than 5% stockholders or transactions that occurred prior to the adoption of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an ownership change under Section 382 will not occur and significantly limit the use of our NOLs.Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected if Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Is Not Effective.Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, each year we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.During the fourth quarter of 2013, we reported that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2011 and 2012 due to the existence of a material weakness. The material weakness we identified in our internal control over financial reporting was that management failed to design and maintain a process to evaluate the completeness of the amount of capital expenditures that had not been paid in cash at the end of the period. Specifically, management did not design effective controls to properly classify purchases of property and equipment included in accounts payable at period end such that the consolidated statements of cash flows only included purchases of property and equipment as investing cash outflows when such amounts had been actually paid during the period. Accordingly, management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective from December 31, 2011 through September 30, 2013. In addition, in our quarterly and annual reports (as amended) for the periods ended from December 31, 2006 through September 30, 2008, we reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, which related to the design of controls over the preparation and review of the account reconciliations and analysis of revenues, cost of revenues and deferred revenues, and ineffective testing of changes made to our revenue and billing systems in connection with the introduction or modification of service offerings. Moreover, we previously reported that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2006. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures.Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future or that no material weakness will result from any difficulties, errors, delays or disruptions from significant new internal systems we have implemented in recent years, including our customer billing system, inventory management system and point-of-sale system. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies, and may subject us to risk of litigation, for which we may incur substantial costs regardless of its outcome. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed.35Related to Ownership of Leap Common Stock Our Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment.The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of Leap common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of Leap common stock may include, among other things:•expectations regarding the timing and likelihood of the consummation of the Merger, including any delays in obtaining regulatory and other required approvals, or any termination of the Merger Agreement;•variations in our operating results or those of our competitors;•announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements (including merger, acquisition or other investment agreements) by us or by our competitors;•entry or expansion of competitors into our markets, changes in product and service offerings by us or our competitors, changes in the prices charged for product and service offerings by us or our competitors, or changes or upgrades in the network technologies used by us or our competitors;•the commencement of or significant developments with respect to intellectual property or other litigation (including litigation relating to the Merger);•announcements of and bidding in auctions for new spectrum;•recruitment or departure of key personnel;•changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock, or changes in our credit ratings or those of our competitors;•changes in the levels of our indebtedness;•any default under our Credit Agreement or any of the indentures governing our senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise;•announcements, rumors or speculation in the marketplace regarding acquisitions or consolidation in our industry, including regarding the Merger and other transactions involving Leap; and•market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole.The occurrence of any one or more of these events could significantly impact the trading price of Leap common stock, and you could lose all or some of your investment.Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs, and Our Ownership Is Highly Concentrated. Sales of a Significant Number of Shares by Large Stockholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock.Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 30% of Leap common stock as of February 18, 2014. Moreover, our two largest stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 35% of Leap common stock as of February 18, 2014. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap's assets and other matters. Our resale shelf registration statement registers for resale 23,533,869 shares of Leap common stock held by entities affiliated with one of our directors, or approximately 30% of Leap's outstanding common stock as of February 18, 2014. We have also agreed to register for resale any additional shares of common stock that these entities or their affiliates acquire. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares, or any of the other shares held by our other large stockholders and entities affiliated with them, may have on the then-prevailing market price of Leap common stock. If any of Leap's stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales could also impede our ability to raise future capital.36We Could Elect to Raise Additional Equity Capital, Which Could Dilute Existing Stockholders.During the second quarter of 2009 we sold 7,000,000 shares of Leap common stock in an underwritten public offering. We could raise additional capital in the future, as market conditions permit, to enhance our liquidity and to provide us with additional flexibility to pursue business investment initiatives. Any additional capital we could raise could be significant and could consist of debt, convertible debt or equity financing from the public and/or private credit or capital markets. However, our ability to undertake these transactions may be restricted by the terms of the Merger Agreement unless consented to by AT&T. To the extent that we were to elect to raise equity capital, this financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and could be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital.Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. As of February 18, 2014, 79,780,364 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 5,544,096 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 3,607,842 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and deferred stock units under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan; 991,924 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan; 531,620 shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and deferred stock units under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan; 193,046 shares of common stock available for future issuance under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan; and 219,664 shares available for future issuance under our Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Leap has also reserved up to 4,761,000 shares of its common stock for issuance upon conversion of its $248.2 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.50% convertible senior notes due 2014. Holders may convert their notes into shares of Leap common stock at any time on or prior to the third scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the notes, July 15, 2014. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock is less than or equal to approximately $93.21 per share, the notes will be convertible into 10.7290 shares of Leap common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes (referred to as the "base conversion rate"), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock exceeds approximately $93.21 per share, the conversion rate will be determined pursuant to a formula based on the base conversion rate and an incremental share factor of 8.3150 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, subject to adjustment. At an applicable stock price of approximately $93.21 per share, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 2,682,250 shares. Upon the occurrence of a "make-whole fundamental change" of Leap under the indenture, under certain circumstances the maximum number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 4,761,000 shares. However, following consummation of the Merger, holders would receive cash and CVRs upon conversion in lieu of shares of Leap common stock as set forth in the indenture governing the notes.In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under our 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, under our 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan and under our Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. When we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market after the recipient satisfies any vesting period applicable to the shares. If any of Leap's stockholders causes a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, under Delaware Law, in Our Credit Agreement and Indentures, or in Our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress the Trading Price of Leap Common Stock.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of Leap common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions:•require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws;37•authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt;•prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders;•provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and•establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings.We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any "interested" stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an "interested" stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company.In addition, under the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain "change of control" events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder's notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, our Credit Agreement provides for an event of default upon the occurrence of a change of control. See "Part II - Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Liquidity and Capital Resources" of this report.On August 30, 2011, our board of directors adopted a Tax Benefit Preservation Plan as a measure intended to help deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and thus help preserve our ability to use our NOL carryforwards. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan was approved by our stockholders in May 2012. The Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is designed to deter acquisitions of Leap common stock that would result in a stockholder owning 4.99% or more of Leap common stock (as calculated under Section 382), or any existing holder of 4.99% or more of Leap common stock acquiring additional shares, by substantially diluting the ownership interest of any such stockholder unless the stockholder obtains an exemption from our board of directors. Because the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan may restrict a stockholder's ability to acquire Leap common stock, it could discourage a tender offer for Leap common stock or make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a controlling position in our stock without our approval, and the liquidity and market value of Leap common stock may be adversely affected while the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan is in effect. On July 12, 2013, Leap entered into an amendment to the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to provide that neither the approval, execution or delivery of the Merger Agreement, the related voting agreement executed by MHR or any amendments thereof or agreements in connection therewith, nor the consummation of transactions or entry into any agreements contemplated thereby, including the Merger, will (i) cause the rights under the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan to become exercisable or entitle a holder of the rights to exercise such rights, (ii) cause AT&T or MHR or any of their affiliates or associates to become an "Acquiring Person" under the terms of the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, or (iii) give rise to a Distribution Date or a Stock Acquisition Date (as such terms are defined in the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan). Other than as described above, the Tax Benefit Preservation Plan remains in effect and continues to apply to acquisitions of Leap common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.