Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We Have Experienced Net Losses, and We May Not Be Profitable in the Future. We experienced net losses of $147.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, $75.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and $24.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We may not generate profits in the future on a consistent basis or at all. Our strategic objectives depend, in part, on our ability to build out and launch networks associated with newly acquired FCC licenses, including the licenses that we and Denali acquired in Auction #66, and we will experience higher operating expenses as we build out and after we launch our service in these new markets. If we fail to achieve consistent profitability, that failure could have a negative effect on our financial condition. We May Not Be Successful in Increasing Our Customer Base Which Would Negatively Affect Our Business Plans and Financial Outlook. Our growth on a quarter-by-quarter basis has varied substantially in the past. We believe that this uneven growth generally reflects seasonal trends in customer activity, promotional activity, competition in the wireless telecommunications market, our pace of new market launches, and varying national economic conditions. Our current business plans assume that we will increase our customer base over time, providing us with increased economies of scale. If we are unable to attract and retain a growing customer base, our current business plans and financial outlook may be harmed. General Economic Conditions May Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Performance or Ability to Obtain Debt or Equity Financing On Reasonable Terms or at All. Our business and financial performance are sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, including changes in interest rates, consumer credit conditions, consumer debt levels, consumer confidence, rates of inflation (or concerns about deflation), unemployment rates, energy costs and other macro-economic factors. Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with tighter credit conditions and economic recession continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and widespread economic recession, high energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and unstable housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. In the second half of 2008, federal government interventions in the U.S. financial system led to increased market uncertainty and instability in capital and credit markets. These conditions, combined with volatile energy prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have contributed to economic volatility of unprecedented levels. As a result of these market conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Concern about the stability of the markets and the strength of counterparties has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike. Continued market turbulence and recessionary conditions may materially adversely affect our business and financial performance in a number of ways. Because we do not require customers to sign fixed-term contracts or pass a credit check, our service is available to a broader customer base than that served by many other wireless providers. As a result, during general economic downturns, including periods of decreased consumer confidence or high unemployment, we may have greater difficulty in gaining new customers within this base for our services and some of our existing customers may be more likely to terminate service due to an inability to pay than the average industry customer. In addition, continued recessionary conditions and tight credit conditions may adversely impact our vendors, some of which have recently filed for or may be considering bankruptcy, as well as suppliers and third-party dealers who could experience cash flow or liquidity problems, which could adversely impact our ability to distribute, market or sell our products and services. We also maintain investments in commercial paper and other short-term investments. Volatility and uncertainty in the financial markets could result in losses or difficulty in monetizing investments in the future. As a result, sustained difficult, or worsening, general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents In addition, general economic conditions have significantly affected the ability of many companies to raise additional funding in the capital markets. For example, U.S. credit markets have experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers less attractive and resulting in the general unavailability of many forms of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional debt financing or to refinance existing indebtedness in the future on favorable terms or at all. These general economic conditions have also adversely affected the trading prices of equity securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, and could significantly limit our ability to raise additional capital through the issuance of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities. If we require additional capital to fund any activities we elect to pursue in addition to our current business expansion efforts and were unable to obtain such capital on terms that we found acceptable or at all, we would likely reduce our investments in such activities or re-direct capital otherwise available for our business expansion efforts. Any of these risks could impair our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If We Experience Low Rates of Customer Acquisition or High Rates of Customer Turnover, Our Ability to Become Profitable Will Decrease. Our rates of customer acquisition and turnover are affected by a number of competitive factors, in addition to the macro-economic factors described above, including the size of our calling areas, network performance and reliability issues, our handset and service offerings (including the ability of customers to cost-effectively roam onto other wireless networks), customer care quality, phone number portability and higher deactivation rates among less-tenured customers we gained as a result of our new market launches. We have also experienced an increasing trend of current customers upgrading their handset by buying a new phone, activating a new line of service, and letting their existing service lapse, which trend has resulted in a higher churn rate as these customers are counted as having disconnected service but have actually been retained. Although we have implemented programs to attract new customers and address customer turnover, these programs may not be successful. A high rate of customer turnover or low rate of new customer acquisition would reduce revenues and increase the total marketing expenditures required to attract the minimum number of customers required to sustain our business plan which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Have Made Significant Investment, and Will Continue to Invest, in Joint Ventures That We Do Not Control. We own a 73.3% non-controlling interest in LCW Wireless, which was awarded a wireless license for the Portland, Oregon market in Auction #58 and to which we contributed, among other things, two wireless licenses in Eugene and Salem, Oregon and related operating assets. We also own an 82.5% non-controlling interest in Denali, an entity which acquired a wireless license covering the upper mid-west portion of the U.S in Auction #66 through a wholly owned subsidiary. LCW Wireless and Denali acquired their wireless licenses as “very small business” designated entities under FCC regulations. Our participation in these joint ventures is structured as a non-controlling interest in order to comply with FCC rules and regulations. We have agreements with our joint venture partners in LCW Wireless and Denali that are intended to allow us to actively participate to a limited extent in the development of the business through the joint venture. However, these agreements do not provide us with control over the business strategy, financial goals, build-out plans or other operational aspects of the joint venture. The FCC’s rules restrict our ability to acquire controlling interests in such entities during the period that such entities must maintain their eligibility as a designated entity, as defined by the FCC. The entities or persons that control the joint ventures may have interests and goals that are inconsistent or different from ours which could result in the joint venture taking actions that negatively impact our business or financial condition. In addition, if any of the other members of a joint venture files for bankruptcy or otherwise fails to perform its obligations or does not manage the joint venture effectively, we may lose our equity investment in, and any present or future opportunity to acquire the assets (including wireless licenses) of, such entity. The FCC has implemented further rule changes aimed at addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program. While we do not believe that these recent rule changes materially affect our joint ventures with LCW 21 Table of Contents Wireless and Denali, the scope and applicability of these rule changes to these designated entity structures remain in flux, and the changes remain subject to administrative and judicial review. We Face Increasing Competition Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Demand for the Cricket Service. The telecommunications industry is very competitive. In general, we compete with national facilities-based wireless providers and their prepaid affiliates or brands, local and regional carriers, non-facilities-based MVNOs, VoIP service providers and traditional landline service providers, including telephone and cable companies. Many of these competitors often have greater name and brand recognition, access to greater amounts of capital and established relationships with a larger base of current and potential customers. Because of their size and bargaining power, our larger competitors may be able to purchase equipment, supplies and services at lower prices than we can. In addition, some of our competitors are able to offer their customers roaming services at lower rates. As consolidation in the industry creates even larger competitors, any purchasing advantages our competitors have, as well as their bargaining power as wholesale providers of roaming services, may increase. For example, in connection with the offering of our nationwide roaming service, we have encountered problems with certain large wireless carriers in negotiating terms for roaming arrangements that we believe are reasonable, and we believe that consolidation has contributed significantly to such carriers’ control over the terms and conditions of wholesale roaming services. These competitors may also offer potential customers more features and options in their service plans than those currently provided by Cricket, as well as new technologies and/or alternative delivery plans. Some of our competitors offer rate plans substantially similar to Cricket’s service plans or products that customers may perceive to be similar to Cricket’s service plans in markets in which we offer wireless service. For example, AT&T, Sprint Nextel, T-Mobile and Verizon Wireless each offer flat-rate unlimited service offerings, and Sprint Nextel offers a less expensive flat-rate unlimited service offering under its Boost Unlimited brand, which is very similar to our Cricket Wireless service. These service offerings may present additional strong competition in our markets. Sprint Nextel recently re-launched its Boost Unlimited brand with new products and services that are competitively priced. Sprint Nextel has expanded and may further expand its Boost Unlimited service offering into certain markets in which we provide service and could further expand service into other markets in which we provide service or in which we plan to expand, and this service offering may present additional strong competition in markets in which our offerings overlap. The competitive pressures of the wireless telecommunications market have also caused other carriers to offer service plans with unlimited service offerings or large bundles of minutes of use at low prices, which are competing with the predictable and unlimited Cricket Wireless calling plans. Some competitors also offer prepaid wireless plans that are being advertised heavily to demographic segments in our current markets and in markets in which we may expand that are strongly represented in Cricket’s customer base. For example, T-Mobile offers a FlexPay plan which permits customers to pay in advance for its post-pay plans and avoid overage charges, and an internet-based service upgrade which permits wireless customers to make unlimited local and long-distance calls from their home phone in place of a traditional landline phone service. These competitive offerings could adversely affect our ability to maintain our pricing and increase or maintain our market penetration and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We may also face additional competition from new entrants in the wireless marketplace, many of whom may have significantly more resources than we do. The FCC is pursuing policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses and spectrum available for the provision of wireless voice and data services in each of our markets. For example, the FCC has adopted rules that allow the partitioning, disaggregation or leasing of wireless licenses, which may increase the number of our competitors. The FCC has also in recent years allowed satellite operators to use portions of their spectrum for ancillary terrestrial use, and also permitted the offering of broadband services over power lines. In addition, the auction and licensing of new spectrum may result in new competitors and/or allow existing competitors to acquire additional spectrum, which could allow them to offer services that we may not technologically or cost effectively be able to offer with the licenses we hold or to which we have access. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors and to keep our costs low. 22 Table of Contents We May Be Unable to Obtain the Roaming Services We Need From Other Carriers to Remain Competitive. We believe that our customers prefer that we offer roaming services that allow them to make calls automatically using the networks of other carriers when they are outside of their Cricket service area. Many of our competitors have regional or national networks which enable them to offer automatic roaming services to their subscribers at a lower cost than we can offer. We do not have a national network, and we must pay fees to other carriers who provide roaming services to us. We currently rely on roaming agreements with several carriers for the majority of our roaming services. Our roaming agreements generally cover voice but not data services and some of these agreements may be terminated on relatively short notice. In addition, we believe that the rates charged to us by some of these carriers are higher than the rates they charge to certain other roaming partners. The FCC has adopted a report and order clarifying that commercial mobile radio service providers are required to provide automatic roaming for voice and SMS text messaging services on just, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. The FCC order, however, does not address roaming for data services nor does it provide or mandate any specific mechanism for determining the reasonableness of roaming rates for voice or SMS text messaging services, and so our ability to obtain roaming services from other carriers at attractive rates remains uncertain. In addition, the FCC order indicates that a host carrier is not required to provide roaming services to another carrier in areas in which that other carrier holds wireless licenses or usage rights that could be used to provide wireless services. Because we and Denali License Sub hold a significant number of spectrum licenses for markets in which service has not yet been launched, we believe that this “in-market” roaming restriction could significantly and adversely affect our ability to receive roaming services in areas where we hold licenses. We and other wireless carriers have filed petitions with the FCC, asking that the agency reconsider this in-market exception to its roaming order. However, we can provide no assurances as to whether the FCC will reconsider this exception or the time-frame in which it might do so. In light of the current FCC order, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to continue to provide roaming services for our customers across the nation or that we will be able to provide such services on a cost-effective basis. We may be unable to enter into or maintain roaming arrangements for voice services at reasonable rates, including in areas in which we hold wireless licenses or have usage rights but have not yet constructed wireless facilities, and we may be unable to secure roaming arrangements for our data services. Our inability to obtain these roaming services on a cost-effective basis may limit our ability to compete effectively for wireless customers, which may increase our churn and decrease our revenues, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We Restated Certain of Our Prior Consolidated Financial Statements, Which Has Led to Additional Risks and Uncertainties, Including Shareholder Litigation. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007, we restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 (including interim periods therein), for the period from August 1, 2004 to December 31, 2004, and for the period from January 1, 2004 to July 31, 2004. In addition, we restated our condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarterly periods ended June 30, 2007 and March 31, 2007. The determination to restate these consolidated financial statements and quarterly condensed consolidated financial statements was made by Leap’s Audit Committee upon management’s recommendation following the identification of errors related to (i) the timing of recognition of certain service revenues prior to or subsequent to the period in which they were earned, (ii) the recognition of service revenues for certain customers that voluntarily disconnected service, (iii) the classification of certain components of service revenues, equipment revenues and operating expenses and (iv) the determination of a tax valuation allowance during the second quarter of 2007. As a result of these events, we became subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, including substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement. In particular, two shareholder derivative actions are currently pending, and we are party to a consolidated securities 23 Table of Contents class action lawsuit. The plaintiffs in these lawsuits may make additional claims, expand existing claims and/or expand the time periods covered by the complaints. Other plaintiffs may bring additional actions with other claims, based on the restatement. We have incurred and may incur substantial additional defense costs with respect to these claims, regardless of their outcome. Likewise, these claims might cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention. If we do not prevail in any such actions, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Business and Stock Price May Be Adversely Affected If Our Internal Controls Are Not Effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires companies to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of their internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, each year we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting; our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting; and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In our quarterly and annual reports (as amended) for the periods ended from December 31, 2006 through September 30, 2008, we reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which related to the design of controls over the preparation and review of the account reconciliations and analysis of revenues, cost of revenue and deferred revenues, and ineffective testing of changes made to our revenue and billing systems in connection with the introduction or modification of service offerings. As described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report, we have taken a number of actions to remediate this material weakness, which include reviewing and designing enhancements to certain of our systems and processes relating to revenue recognition and user acceptance testing and hiring and promoting additional accounting personnel with the appropriate skills, training and experience in these areas. Based upon the remediation actions described in “Part II — Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” of this report, management concluded that the material weakness described above has been remediated as of December 31, 2008. In addition, we previously reported that certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed at various times during the period from September 30, 2004 through September 30, 2006. These material weaknesses included excessive turnover and inadequate staffing levels in our accounting, financial reporting and tax departments, weaknesses in the preparation of our income tax provision, and weaknesses in our application of lease-related accounting principles, fresh-start reporting oversight, and account reconciliation procedures. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we have identified and to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. The existence of one or more material weaknesses could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of Leap common stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Our Primary Business Strategy May Not Succeed in the Long Term. A major element of our business strategy is to offer consumers service plans that allow unlimited wireless service from within a Cricket service area for a flat rate without entering into a fixed-term contract or passing a credit check. However, unlike national wireless carriers, we do not currently provide ubiquitous coverage across the U.S. or all major metropolitan centers, and instead have a network footprint covering only the principal population centers of our various markets. This strategy may not prove to be successful in the long term. Some companies that have offered this type of service in the past have been unsuccessful. From time to time, we also evaluate our service offerings and the demands of our target customers and may modify, change, adjust or discontinue our service offerings or offer new services. We cannot assure you that these service offerings will be successful or prove to be profitable. 24 Table of Contents We Expect to Incur Substantial Costs in Connection With the Build-Out of Our New Markets, and Any Delays or Cost Increases in the Build-Out of Our New Markets Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will depend in part on the successful, timely and cost-effective build-out of the networks associated with newly acquired FCC licenses, including the licenses that we and Denali acquired in Auction #66 and any licenses that we may acquire from third parties. Large-scale construction projects for the build-out of our new markets will require significant capital expenditures and may suffer cost overruns. In addition, we expect to incur higher operating expenses as our existing business grows and as we build out and after we launch service in new markets. Significant capital expenditures and increased operating expenses, including in connection with the build-out and launch of markets for the licenses that we and Denali acquired in Auction #66, will decrease OIBDA and free cash flow for the periods in which we incur such costs. If we are unable to fund the build-out of these new markets with our existing cash and our cash generated from operations, we may be required to defer the build-out of certain markets or to raise additional equity capital or incur further indebtedness, which we cannot guarantee would be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, the build-out of the networks may be delayed or adversely affected by a variety of factors, uncertainties and contingencies, such as natural disasters, difficulties in obtaining zoning permits or other regulatory approvals, our relationships with our joint venture partners, and the timely performance by third parties of their contractual obligations to construct portions of the networks. Portions of the AWS spectrum that we and Denali License Sub hold are currently used by U.S. federal government and/or incumbent commercial licensees. FCC rules require winning bidders to avoid interfering with these existing users or to clear the incumbent users from the spectrum through specified relocation procedures. We and Denali considered the estimated cost and time-frame required to clear the spectrum prior to placing bids in Auction #66. However, the actual cost of clearing the spectrum could exceed our estimated costs. Furthermore, delays in the provision of federal funds to relocate government users, or difficulties in negotiating with incumbent government and commercial licensees, may extend the date by which the auctioned spectrum can be cleared of existing operations, and thus may also delay the date on which we can launch commercial services using such licensed spectrum. Several federal government agencies have cleared or developed plans to clear this spectrum or have indicated that we and Denali Operations can operate on the spectrum without interfering with the agencies’ current uses. While we do not expect spectrum clearing issues to impact markets that we and Denali Operations intend to launch by the middle of 2009, we continue to work with various federal agencies in other markets that we could elect to launch by the end of 2010 to ensure that they either relocate their spectrum use to alternative frequencies or confirm that we can operate on the spectrum without interfering with their current uses. If our efforts with these agencies are not successful, their continued use of the spectrum could delay our launch of certain of those markets. In addition, to the extent that we or Denali Operations are operating on AWS spectrum and a federal government agency believes that our planned or ongoing operations interfere with its current uses, we may be required to immediately cease using the spectrum in that particular market for a period of time until the interference is resolved. Any temporary or extended shutdown of one of our or Denali Operations’ wireless networks in a launched market could materially and adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. Any failure to complete the build-out of our new markets on budget or on time could delay the implementation of our clustering and expansion strategies, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If We Are Unable to Manage Our Planned Growth, Our Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted. We have experienced substantial growth in a relatively short period of time, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future in our existing and new markets. The management of such growth will require, among other things, continued development of our financial and management controls and management information systems, stringent control of costs and handset inventories, diligent management of our network infrastructure and its growth, increased spending associated with marketing activities and acquisition of new customers, the ability to attract and retain qualified management personnel and the training of new personnel. Furthermore, the implementation of new or expanded systems or platforms to accomodate this growth, and the 25 Table of Contents transition to such systems or platforms from our existing infrastructure, could result in unpredictable technological or other difficulties. Failure to successfully manage our expected growth and development, to enhance our processes and management systems or to timely and adequately resolve any such difficulties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Significant Indebtedness Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Health and Prevent Us From Fulfilling Our Obligations. We have now and will continue to have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our total outstanding indebtedness was $2,579.0 million, including $877.5 million of indebtedness under our Credit Agreement and $1,650 million in unsecured senior indebtedness, which comprised $1,100 million of senior notes due 2014, $250 million of convertible senior notes due 2014 and $300 million of senior notes due 2015. We also had a $200 million undrawn revolving credit facility (which forms part of our senior secured credit facility). Indebtedness under our Credit Agreement bears interest at a variable rate, but we have entered into interest rate swap agreements with respect to $355 million of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, as market conditions permit, to enable us to take advantage of activities we may elect to pursue at a significant level in addition to our current business expansion efforts, which could consist of debt financing from the public and/or private capital markets. Our significant indebtedness could have material consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital needs, capital expenditures, network build-out and other activities, including acquisitions and general corporate purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and • expose us to higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates because indebtedness under our Credit Agreement bears interest at a variable rate. Any of these risks could impact our ability to fund our operations or limit our ability to expand our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Despite Current Indebtedness Levels, We May Incur Additional Indebtedness. This Could Further Increase the Risks Associated With Our Leverage. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, as market conditions permit, to enable us to take advantage of other activities we may elect to pursue at a significant level in addition to our current business expansion efforts. The terms of the indentures governing Cricket’s senior notes permit us, subject to specified limitations, to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. In addition, our Credit Agreement permits us to incur additional indebtedness under various financial ratio tests. The indenture governing Leap’s convertible senior notes does not limit our ability to incur debt. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we intend to file a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement would be able to be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. 26 Table of Contents If new indebtedness is added to our current levels of indebtedness, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Furthermore, the subsequent build-out of the networks covered by the licenses we acquired in Auction #66 may significantly reduce our free cash flow, increasing the risk that we may not be able to service our indebtedness. To Service Our Indebtedness and Fund Our Working Capital and Capital Expenditures, We Will Require a Significant Amount of Cash. Our Ability to Generate Cash Depends on Many Factors Beyond Our Control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs or at all. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures (including expenditures to build out new markets), attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, selling assets or operations or seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We May Be Unable to Refinance Our Indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity, including indebtedness under our Credit Agreement or the indenture governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes. The maturity date for our revolving credit facility, which was undrawn as of December 31, 2008, is in June 2011. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Covenants in Our Credit Agreement and Indentures and Other Credit Agreements or Indentures That We May Enter Into in the Future May Limit Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our Credit Agreement and the indentures governing Cricket’s senior notes contain covenants that restrict the ability of Leap, Cricket and the subsidiary guarantors to make distributions or other payments to our investors or creditors until we satisfy certain financial tests or other criteria. In addition, these indentures and our Credit Agreement include covenants restricting, among other things, the ability of Leap, Cricket and their restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • place limitations on distributions from restricted subsidiaries; • pay dividends, make investments, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; • sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. Under our Credit Agreement, we must also comply with, among other things, financial covenants with respect to a maximum consolidated senior secured leverage ratio and, if a revolving credit loan or uncollateralized letter of credit is outstanding or requested, with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio, a maximum 27 Table of Contents consolidated leverage ratio and a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. Based upon our current projected financial performance, we expect that we could borrow all or a substantial portion of the $200 million commitment available under our revolving credit facility until it expires in June 2011. If our financial and operating results were significantly less than what we currently project, the financial covenants in the Credit Agreement could restrict or prevent us from borrowing under the revolving credit facility for one or more quarters. However, we do not generally rely upon the revolving credit facility as a source of liquidity in planning for our future capital and operating requirements. The restrictions in our Credit Agreement and the indentures governing Cricket’s senior notes could limit our ability to make borrowings, obtain debt financing, repurchase stock, refinance or pay principal or interest on our outstanding indebtedness, complete acquisitions for cash or debt or react to changes in our operating environment. Any credit agreement or indenture that we may enter into in the future may have similar restrictions. Our Credit Agreement also prohibits the occurrence of a change of control, which includes the acquisition of beneficial ownership of 35% or more of Leap’s equity securities, a change in a majority of the members of Leap’s board of directors that is not approved by the board and the occurrence of a “change of control” under any of our other credit instruments. In addition, under the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. If we default under our Credit Agreement or under any of the indentures governing our senior notes or convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts thereunder could become immediately due and payable. Our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007 constituted a default under our Credit Agreement and the indenture governing Cricket’s senior notes due 2014, and the restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial information (as described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in “Part II — Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2006, filed with the SEC on December 26, 2007) may have constituted a default under our Credit Agreement. Although we were able to obtain limited waivers under our Credit Agreement with respect to these events, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain a waiver in the future should a default occur. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all of the outstanding amounts under our Credit Agreement or the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rises in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 21.6% of our debt was variable rate debt, after considering the effect of our interest rate swap agreements. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on our variable rate debt, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service our debt. A Significant Portion of Our Assets Consists of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As of December 31, 2008, 45.6% of our assets consisted of goodwill and other intangibles, including wireless licenses. The value of our assets, and in particular, our intangible assets, will depend on market conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. By their nature, our intangible assets may not have a readily ascertainable market value or may not be readily saleable or, if saleable, there may be substantial delays in their liquidation. For example, prior FCC approval is required in order for us to sell, or for any remedies to be exercised by our lenders with respect to, our wireless licenses, and obtaining such approval could result in significant delays and reduce the proceeds obtained from the sale or other disposition of our wireless licenses. 28 Table of Contents The Wireless Industry is Experiencing Rapid Technological Change, and We May Lose Customers If We Fail to Keep Up With These Changes. The wireless communications industry is experiencing significant technological change, as evidenced by the ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology, the development and commercial acceptance of wireless data services, shorter development cycles for new products and enhancements and changes in end-user requirements and preferences. In the future, competitors may seek to provide competing wireless telecommunications service through the use of developing 4G technologies, such as WiMax and LTE. The cost of implementing or competing against future technological innovations may be prohibitive to us, and we may lose customers if we fail to keep up with these changes. For example, we have expended a substantial amount of capital to upgrade our network with EvDO technology to offer advanced data services. In addition, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum to deploy these new technologies, which we cannot guarantee would be available to us at a reasonable cost, on a timely basis or at all. If such upgrades, technologies or services do not become commercially acceptable, our revenues and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will be widespread demand for advanced data services or that this demand will develop at a level that will allow us to earn a reasonable return on our investment. In addition, CDMA2000-based infrastructure networks could become less popular in the future, which could raise the cost to us of equipment and handsets that use that technology relative to the cost of handsets and equipment that utilize other technologies. The Loss of Key Personnel and Difficulty Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel Could Harm Our Business. We believe our success depends heavily on the contributions of our employees and on attracting, motivating and retaining our officers and other management and technical personnel. We do not, however, generally provide employment contracts to our employees. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified employees that we need, our business may be harmed. We have experienced higher than normal employee turnover in the past, in part because of our bankruptcy, including turnover of individuals at the most senior management levels. In addition, our business is managed by a small number of key executive officers, including our CEO, S. Douglas Hutcheson. In September 2007, Amin Khalifa resigned as our executive vice president and CFO, and the board of directors appointed Mr. Hutcheson to serve as acting CFO as we searched for a successor to Mr. Khalifa. We announced the appointment of Walter Z. Berger as our executive vice president and CFO in June 2008. In February 2008, Grant Burton, who had served as chief accounting officer and controller since June 2005, assumed a new role as vice president, financial systems and processes. Jeffrey E. Nachbor, joined the company in April 2008 as our senior vice president, financial operations, and was appointed as our chief accounting officer in May 2008. As a result, several members of our senior management, including those responsible for our finance and accounting functions, have either been hired or appointed to new positions over a relatively short period of time, and it may take time to fully integrate these individuals into their new roles. The loss of key individuals in the future may have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively manage and operate our business. In addition, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel in future periods, particularly if we were to experience poor operating or financial performance. Risks Associated With Wireless Handsets Could Pose Product Liability, Health and Safety Risks That Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We do not manufacture handsets or other equipment sold by us and generally rely on our suppliers to provide us with safe equipment. Our suppliers are required by applicable law to manufacture their handsets to meet certain governmentally imposed safety criteria. However, even if the handsets we sell meet the regulatory safety criteria, we could be held liable with the equipment manufacturers and suppliers for any harm caused by products we sell if such products are later found to have design or manufacturing defects. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers who supply us with handsets to protect us from direct losses associated with product 29 Table of Contents liability, but we cannot guarantee that we will be fully protected against all losses associated with a product that is found to be defective. Media reports have suggested that the use of wireless handsets may be linked to various health concerns, including cancer, and may interfere with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Certain class action lawsuits have been filed in the industry claiming damages for alleged health problems arising from the use of wireless handsets. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. The media has also reported incidents of handset battery malfunction, including reports of batteries that have overheated. Malfunctions have caused at least one major handset manufacturer to recall certain batteries used in its handsets, including batteries in a handset sold by Cricket and other wireless providers. Concerns over radio frequency emissions and defective products may discourage the use of wireless handsets, which could decrease demand for our services. Concerns over possible safety risks could decrease the demand for our services. For example, in early 2008, a technical defect was discovered in one of our manufacturer’s handsets which appeared to prevent a portion of 911 calls from being heard by the operator. After learning of the defect, we instructed our retail locations to temporarily cease selling the handsets, notified our customers of the matter and directed them to bring their handsets into our retail locations to receive correcting software. If one or more Cricket customers were harmed by a defective product provided to us by a manufacturer and subsequently sold in connection with our services, our ability to add and maintain customers for Cricket service could be materially adversely affected by negative public reactions. There also are some safety risks associated with the use of wireless handsets while driving. Concerns over these safety risks and the effect of any legislation that has been and may be adopted in response to these risks could limit our ability to sell our wireless service. We Rely Heavily on Third Parties to Provide Specialized Services; a Failure by Such Parties to Provide the Agreed Upon Products or Services Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition. We depend heavily on suppliers and contractors with specialized expertise in order for us to efficiently operate our business. In the past, our suppliers, contractors and third-party retailers have not always performed at the levels we expect or at the levels required by their contracts. If key suppliers, contractors, service providers or third-party retailers fail to comply with their contracts, fail to meet our performance expectations or refuse or are unable to supply or provide services to us in the future, our business could be severely disrupted. Generally, there are multiple sources for the types of products and services we purchase or use. However, some suppliers and contractors are the exclusive sources of specific products and services that we rely upon for billing, customer care, sales, accounting and other areas in our business. For example, we recently entered into a long-term, exclusive services agreement with Convergys Corporation for the implementation and ongoing management of a new billing system. We also use a limited number of vendors to provide payment processing services, and in a significant number of our markets, the majority of these services may be provided by a single vendor. In addition, a single vendor currently provides a majority of our voice and data communications transport services. Because of the costs and time lags that can be associated with transitioning from one supplier or service provider to another, our business could be substantially disrupted if we were required to replace the products or services of one or more major suppliers or service providers with products or services from another source, especially if the replacement became necessary on short notice. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. System Failures Could Result in Higher Churn, Reduced Revenue and Increased Costs, and Could Harm Our Reputation. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure and ancillary functions supporting our network such as service activation, billing and customer care) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from technology failures, power loss, floods, windstorms, fires, human error, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing, or similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities, system failures, hardware or software failures, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause network service interruptions. In 30 Table of Contents addition, we are in the process of upgrading some of our internal business systems, and we cannot assure you that we will not experience delays or interruptions while we transition our data and existing systems onto our new systems. In December 2008, we entered into a long-term, exclusive services agreement with Convergys Corporation for the implementation and ongoing management of a new billing system. To help facilitate the transition of customer billing from our current vendor, VeriSign, Inc., to Convergys, we acquired VeriSign’s billing system software and simultaneously entered into a transition services agreement to enable Convergys to provide us with billing services using the existing VeriSign software until the conversion to the new system is complete. Any failure in or interruption of systems that we or third parties maintain to support ancillary functions, such as billing, point of sale, customer care and financial reporting, could materially impact our ability to timely and accurately record, process and report information important to our business. If any of the above events were to occur, we could experience higher churn, reduced revenues and increased costs, any of which could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. We May Not Be Successful in Protecting and Enforcing Our Intellectual Property Rights. We rely on a combination of patent, service mark, trademark, and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which only offer limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary rights. Moreover, others may independently develop processes and technologies that are competitive to ours. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights may depend on any legal actions that we undertake against such infringers being successful, but we cannot be sure that any such actions will be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. We cannot assure you that our pending, or any future, patent applications will be granted, that any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that any existing or future patents will be enforceable, or that the rights granted under any patent that may issue will provide us with any competitive advantages. In addition, we cannot assure you that any trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks or service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our brands. Our inability to secure trademark or service mark protection with respect to our brands could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and Our Suppliers May Be Subject to Claims of Infringement Regarding Telecommunications Technologies That Are Protected By Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights. Telecommunications technologies are protected by a wide array of patents and other intellectual property rights. As a result, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert infringement claims against us or our suppliers based on our or their general business operations, the equipment, software or services that we or they use or provide, or the specific operation of our wireless networks. For example, see “Part I — Item 3. Legal Proceedings — Patent Litigation” of this report for a description of certain patent infringement lawsuits that have been brought against us. If plaintiffs in any patent litigation matters brought against us were to prevail, we could be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally have indemnification agreements with the manufacturers, licensors and suppliers who provide us with the equipment, software and technology that we use in our business to help protect us against possible infringement claims. However, depending on the nature and scope of a possible claim, we may not be entitled to seek indemnification from the manufacturer, vendor or supplier under the terms of the agreement. In addition, to the extent that we may be entitled to seek indemnification under the terms of an agreement, we cannot guarantee that we would be fully indemnified against all possible losses associated with a possible claim. In addition, our suppliers may be subject to infringement claims that could prevent or make it more expensive for them to supply us with the products and services we require to run our business, which could have the effect of slowing or limiting our ability to introduce products and services to our customers. Moreover, we may be subject to claims that products, software 31 Table of Contents and services provided by different vendors which we combine to offer our services may infringe the rights of third parties, and we may not have any indemnification from our vendors for these claims. Whether or not an infringement claim against us or a supplier was valid or successful, it could adversely affect our business by diverting management attention, involving us in costly and time-consuming litigation, requiring us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements (which may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all) or requiring us to redesign our business operations or systems to avoid claims of infringement. In addition, infringement claims against our suppliers could also require us to purchase products and services at higher prices or from different suppliers and could adversely affect our business by delaying our ability to offer certain products and services to our customers. Regulation by Government Agencies May Increase Our Costs of Providing Service or Require Us to Change Our Services. The FCC regulates the licensing, construction, modification, operation, ownership, sale and interconnection of wireless communications systems, as do some state and local regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that the FCC or any state or local agencies having jurisdiction over our business will not adopt regulations or take other enforcement or other actions that would adversely affect our business, impose new costs or require changes in current or planned operations. In addition, state regulatory agencies are increasingly focused on the quality of service and support that wireless carriers provide to their customers and several agencies have proposed or enacted new and potentially burdensome regulations in this area. We also cannot assure you that the Communications Act, from which the FCC obtains its authority, will not be further amended in a manner that could be adverse to us. For example, the FCC has implemented rule changes and sought comment on further rule changes focused on addressing alleged abuses of its designated entity program, which gives certain categories of small businesses preferential treatment in FCC spectrum auctions based on size. In that proceeding, the FCC has re-affirmed its goals of ensuring that only legitimate small businesses benefit from the program, and that such small businesses are not controlled or manipulated by larger wireless carriers or other investors that do not meet the small business qualification tests. We cannot predict the degree to which rule changes, judicial review of the designated entity rules or increased regulatory scrutiny that may follow from this proceeding will affect our current or future business ventures or our participation in future FCC spectrum auctions. Under existing law, no more than 20% of an FCC licensee’s capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. If an FCC licensee is controlled by another entity (as is the case with Leap’s ownership and control of subsidiaries that hold FCC licenses), up to 25% of that entity’s capital stock may be owned or voted by non-U.S. citizens or their representatives, by a foreign government or its representatives or by a foreign corporation. Foreign ownership above the 25% holding company level may be allowed if the FCC finds such higher levels consistent with the public interest. The FCC has ruled that higher levels of foreign ownership, even up to 100%, are presumptively consistent with the public interest with respect to investors from certain nations. If our foreign ownership were to exceed the permitted level, the FCC could revoke our wireless licenses, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we could seek a declaratory ruling from the FCC allowing the foreign ownership or could take other actions to reduce our foreign ownership percentage in order to avoid the loss of our licenses, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such a ruling or that any other actions we may take would be successful. Our operations are subject to various other laws and regulations, including those regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, other federal agencies and state and local regulatory agencies and legislative bodies. Adverse decisions or regulations of these regulatory bodies could negatively impact our operations and costs of doing business. Because of our smaller size, legislation or governmental regulations and orders can significantly increase our costs and affect our competitive position compared to other larger telecommunications providers. We are unable to predict the scope, pace or financial impact of regulations and other policy changes that could be adopted by the various governmental entities that oversee portions of our business. 32 Table of Contents If Call Volume or Wireless Broadband Usage Exceeds Our Expectations, Our Costs of Providing Service Could Increase, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Operating Expenses. Cricket Wireless customers generally use their handsets for voice calls for an average of approximately 1,500 minutes per month, and some markets experience substantially higher call volumes. Our Cricket Wireless service plans bundle certain features, long distance and unlimited service in Cricket calling areas for a fixed monthly fee to more effectively compete with other telecommunications providers. In September 2007, we introduced our unlimited mobile broadband offering, Cricket Broadband, into select markets. As of December 31, 2008, our Cricket Broadband service was available to approximately 67.2 million covered POPs, and we intend to make the service available in new Cricket markets that we and Denali Operations launch. In October 2008, we began an introductory launch of Cricket PAYGo, our daily unlimited prepaid wireless service, in three Cricket markets and approximately 1,600 locations, including 600 locations of a major national retailer across the nation. The extent to which we expand the availability of this service offering will depend upon the results of our introductory launch. If customers exceed expected usage for our voice or mobile broadband services, we could face capacity problems and our costs of providing the services could increase. Although we own less spectrum in many of our markets than our competitors, we seek to design our network to accommodate our expected high rates of usage of voice and mobile broadband services, and we consistently assess and try to implement technological improvements to increase the efficiency of our wireless spectrum. However, if future wireless use by Cricket customers exceeds the capacity of our network, service quality may suffer. We may be forced to raise the price of our voice or mobile broadband services to reduce volume or otherwise limit the number of new customers, or incur substantial capital expenditures to improve network capacity or quality. We May Be Unable to Acquire Additional Spectrum in the Future at a Reasonable Cost or on a Timely Basis. Because we offer unlimited calling services for a fixed fee, our customers’ average minutes of use per month is substantially above U.S. averages. In addition, early customer usage of our Cricket Broadband service has been significant. We intend to meet demand for our wireless services by utilizing spectrally efficient technologies. Despite our recent spectrum purchases, there may come a point where we need to acquire additional spectrum in order to maintain an acceptable grade of service or provide new services to meet increasing customer demands. In the future, we may be required to acquire additional spectrum to deploy new technologies, such as WiMax and LTE. In addition, we also may acquire additional spectrum in order to enter new strategic markets. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire additional spectrum at auction or in the after-market at a reasonable cost or that additional spectrum would be made available by the FCC on a timely basis. If such additional spectrum is not available to us when required or at a reasonable cost, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Wireless Licenses are Subject to Renewal and May Be Revoked in the Event that We Violate Applicable Laws. Our existing wireless licenses are subject to renewal upon the expiration of the 10-year or 15-year period for which they are granted, which renewal period commenced for some of our PCS wireless licenses in 2006. The FCC will award a renewal expectancy to a wireless licensee that timely files a renewal application, has provided substantial service during its past license term and has substantially complied with applicable FCC rules and policies and the Communications Act. The FCC has routinely renewed wireless licenses in the past. However, the Communications Act provides that licenses may be revoked for cause and license renewal applications denied if the FCC determines that a renewal would not serve the public interest. FCC rules provide that applications competing with a license renewal application may be considered in comparative hearings, and establish the qualifications for competing applications and the standards to be applied in hearings. We cannot assure you that the FCC will renew our wireless licenses upon their expiration. 33 Table of Contents Future Declines in the Fair Value of Our Wireless Licenses Could Result in Future Impairment Charges. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of our wireless licenses and those of Denali License Sub and LCW License was approximately $1.8 billion. During 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $0.2 million. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we recorded impairment charges of $1.0 million and $7.9 million, respectively. The market values of wireless licenses have varied dramatically over the last several years, and may vary significantly in the future. In particular, valuation swings could occur if: • consolidation in the wireless industry allows or requires carriers to sell significant portions of their wireless spectrum holdings; • a sudden large sale of spectrum by one or more wireless providers occurs; or • market prices decline as a result of the sale prices in FCC auctions. In addition, the price of wireless licenses could decline as a result of the FCC’s pursuit of policies designed to increase the number of wireless licenses available in each of our markets. For example, during the past two years, the FCC auctioned additional spectrum in the 1700 MHz to 2100 MHz band in Auction #66 and the 700 MHz band in Auction #73, and has announced that it intends to auction additional spectrum in the 2.5 GHz band. If the market value of wireless licenses were to decline significantly, the value of our wireless licenses could be subject to non-cash impairment charges. We assess potential impairments to our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. We conduct our annual tests for impairment of our wireless licenses during the third quarter of each year. Estimates of the fair value of our wireless licenses are based primarily on available market prices, including successful bid prices in FCC auctions and selling prices observed in wireless license transactions, pricing trends among historical wireless license transactions, our spectrum holdings within a given market relative to other carriers’ holdings and qualitative demographic and economic information concerning the areas that comprise our markets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating income and on the carrying value of our wireless licenses on our balance sheet. Declines in Our Operating Performance Could Ultimately Result in an Impairment of Our Indefinite-Lived Assets, Including Goodwill, or Our Long-Lived Assets, Including Property and Equipment. We assess potential impairments to our long-lived assets, including property and equipment and certain intangible assets, when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We assess potential impairments to indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill and wireless licenses, annually and when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment condition may exist. General economic conditions in the U.S. have recently adversely impacted the trading prices of securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, due to concerns regarding recessionary economic conditions, tighter credit conditions, the subprime lending and financial crisis, volatile energy costs, a substantial slowdown in economic activity, decreased consumer confidence and other factors. In addition, the trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. If, in the future, the trading price of Leap common stock were to be adversely affected for a sustained period of time, due to worsening general economic conditions, significant changes in our financial performance or other factors, these events could ultimately result in a non-cash impairment charge related to our long-lived and/or our indefinite-lived intangible assets. A significant impairment loss could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and on the carrying value of our goodwill or wireless licenses and/or our long-lived assets on our balance sheet. We May Incur Higher Than Anticipated Intercarrier Compensation Costs. When our customers use our service to call customers of other carriers, we are required under the current intercarrier compensation scheme to pay the carrier that serves the called party. Similarly, when a customer of 34 Table of Contents another carrier calls one of our customers, that carrier is required to pay us. While in most cases we have been successful in negotiating agreements with other carriers that impose reasonable reciprocal compensation arrangements, some carriers have claimed a right to unilaterally impose what we believe to be unreasonably high charges on us. The FCC is actively considering possible regulatory approaches to address this situation but we cannot assure you that any FCC rules or regulations will be beneficial to us. The enactment of adverse FCC rules or regulations or any FCC inaction could result in carriers successfully collecting higher intercarrier fees from us, which could adversely affect our business. The FCC also is considering making various significant changes to the intercarrier compensation scheme to which we are subject. We cannot predict with any certainty the likely outcome of this FCC proceeding. Some of the alternatives that are under active consideration by the FCC could severely increase the interconnection costs we pay. If we are unable to cost-effectively provide our products and services to customers, our competitive position and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. If We Experience High Rates of Credit Card, Subscription or Dealer Fraud, Our Ability to Generate Cash Flow Will Decrease. Our operating costs can increase substantially as a result of customer credit card, subscription or dealer fraud. We have implemented a number of strategies and processes to detect and prevent efforts to defraud us, and we believe that our efforts have substantially reduced the types of fraud we have identified. However, if our strategies are not successful in detecting and controlling fraud in the future, the resulting loss of revenue or increased expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our Stock Price May Be Volatile, and You May Lose All or Some of Your Investment. The trading prices of the securities of telecommunications companies have been highly volatile. Accordingly, the trading price of Leap common stock has been, and is likely to be, subject to wide fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of Leap common stock may include, among other things: • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations, new services or service enhancements, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors; • entry of new competitors into our markets; • significant developments with respect to intellectual property, securities or related litigation; • announcements of and bidding in auctions for new spectrum; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow Leap common stock; • any default under our Credit Agreement or any of the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes because of a covenant breach or otherwise; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. General economic conditions in the U.S. have recently adversely impacted the trading prices of securities of many U.S. companies, including Leap, due to concerns regarding recessionary economic conditions, tighter credit conditions, the subprime lending and financial crisis, volatile energy costs, a substantial slowdown in economic activity, decreased consumer confidence and other factors. The trading price of Leap common stock may continue to be adversely affected if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition or results of operations will be negatively impacted by a general downturn in the economy. 35 Table of Contents We May Elect to Raise Additional Equity Capital Which May Dilute Existing Stockholders. We may raise additional capital to finance activities that we may elect to pursue at a significant level in addition to our current business expansion efforts, which could consist of debt and/or equity financing from the public and/or private capital markets. To provide flexibility with respect to any future capital raising alternatives, we intend to file a universal shelf registration statement with the SEC to register various debt, equity and other securities, including debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depository shares, rights and warrants. The securities under this registration statement would be able to be offered from time to time, separately or together, directly by us or through underwriters, at amounts, prices, interest rates and other terms to be determined at the time of any offering. To the extent that we elect to raise equity capital, this financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us and may be dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Your Ownership Interest in Leap Will Be Diluted Upon Issuance of Shares We Have Reserved for Future Issuances, and Future Issuances or Sales of Such Shares May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. As of February 20, 2009, 69,813,511 shares of Leap common stock were issued and outstanding, and 6,626,489 additional shares of Leap common stock were reserved for issuance, including 5,061,422 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of awards granted or available for grant under Leap’s 2004 Stock Option, Restricted Stock and Deferred Stock Unit Plan, as amended, or the 2004 Plan, 300,000 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of awards granted or available for grant under Leap’s 2009 Employment Inducement Equity Incentive Plan, 665,067 shares reserved for issuance under Leap’s Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and 600,000 shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Leap has also reserved up to 4,761,000 shares of its common stock for issuance upon conversion of its $250 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2014. Holders may convert their notes into shares of Leap common stock at any time on or prior to the third scheduled trading day prior to the maturity date of the notes, July 15, 2014. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock is less than or equal to approximately $93.21 per share, the notes will be convertible into 10.7290 shares of Leap common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the notes (referred to as the “base conversion rate”), subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events. If, at the time of conversion, the applicable stock price of Leap common stock exceeds approximately $93.21 per share, the conversion rate will be determined pursuant to a formula based on the base conversion rate and an incremental share factor of 8.3150 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, subject to adjustment. At an applicable stock price of approximately $93.21 per share, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 2,682,250 shares. Upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” of Leap under the indenture, under certain circumstances the maximum number of shares of common stock issuable upon full conversion of the convertible senior notes would be 4,761,000 shares. In addition, Leap has reserved five percent of its outstanding shares, which represented 3,490,676 shares of common stock as of February 20, 2009, for potential issuance to CSM on the exercise of CSM’s option to put its entire equity interest in LCW Wireless to Cricket. Under the LCW LLC Agreement, the purchase price for CSM’s equity interest is calculated on a pro rata basis using either the appraised value of LCW Wireless or a multiple of Leap’s enterprise value divided by its adjusted EBITDA and applied to LCW Wireless’ adjusted EBITDA to impute an enterprise value and equity value for LCW Wireless. Cricket may satisfy the put price either in cash or in Leap common stock, or a combination thereof, as determined by Cricket in its discretion. However, the covenants in our Credit Agreement do not permit Cricket to satisfy any substantial portion of its put obligations to CSM in cash. If Cricket elects to satisfy its put obligations to CSM with Leap common stock, the obligations of the parties are conditioned upon the block of Leap common stock issuable to CSM not constituting more than five percent of Leap’s outstanding common stock at the time of issuance. Dilution of the outstanding number of shares of Leap common stock could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Leap common stock. We have agreed to prepare and file a resale shelf registration statement for any shares of Leap common stock issued to CSM in connection with the put, and to use our reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the SEC. In addition, we have registered all shares of common stock that we may issue under 36 Table of Contents our stock option, restricted stock and deferred stock unit plan and under our employee stock purchase plan, and we intend to register in the near future all shares of common stock that we may issue under our employment inducement equity incentive plan. When we issue shares under these stock plans, they can be freely sold in the public market. If any of Leap’s stockholders causes a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Our Directors and Affiliated Entities Have Substantial Influence over Our Affairs, and Our Ownership Is Highly Concentrated. Sales of a Significant Number of Shares by Large Stockholders May Adversely Affect the Market Price of Leap Common Stock. Our directors and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 22.9% of Leap common stock as of February 20, 2009. Moreover, our four largest stockholders and entities affiliated with them beneficially owned in the aggregate approximately 60.7% of Leap common stock as of February 20, 2009. These stockholders have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These stockholders will be able to influence the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of Leap’s assets and other matters. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination. Our resale shelf registration statement, as amended, registers for resale 11,755,806 shares of Leap common stock held by entities affiliated with one of our directors, or approximately 16.8% of Leap’s outstanding common stock as of February 20, 2009. We are in the process of terminating our existing resale shelf registration statement on Form S-1 and replacing it with a resale shelf registration statement on Form S-3 covering the resale of these same shares. We are unable to predict the potential effect that sales into the market of any material portion of such shares, or any of the other shares held by our other large stockholders and entities affiliated with them, may have on the then-prevailing market price of Leap common stock. If any of Leap’s stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, these sales could reduce the trading price of Leap common stock. These sales could also impede our ability to raise future capital. Provisions in Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws, under Delaware Law, or in Our Credit Agreement and Indentures Might Discourage, Delay or Prevent a Change in Control of Our Company or Changes in Our Management and, Therefore, Depress the Trading Price of Leap Common Stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of Leap common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: • require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board of directors could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, and require that all stockholder actions be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any “interested” stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an “interested” stockholder and which may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 37 Table of Contents In addition, our Credit Agreement also prohibits the occurrence of a change of control and, under the indentures governing our senior notes and convertible senior notes, if certain “change of control” events occur, each holder of notes may require us to repurchase all of such holder’s notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of senior notes, or 100% of the principal amount of convertible senior notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. See “Part II — Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this report. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 