Item 1A. Risk Factors The following disclosure of risk factors include all material risks known to us at this time. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may prove to impair our business and financial performance. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks, whether stated or unstated. We operate in a continually changing business environment and may as a result enter into new businesses and product lines. We cannot predict new risk factors that may arise in the future, and we cannot assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, our estimates of future operating results are based on our current complement of businesses, which is constantly subject to change as we continue to assess and refine our business strategy. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected in a material manner. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our potential for future success. We were formed in December 1997. To date, we have generated limited revenues from the sale of our products and do not expect to generate significant revenues until we sell a significantly larger number of our products. Accordingly, we have only a limited operating history upon which you can base an evaluation of our business and prospects. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by early stage companies like ours in an evolving market. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, our business will be materially harmed. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception and we currently have an accumulated deficit. These factors raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our ability to continue as a going concern is ultimately dependent on our ability to raise additional capital and to increase sales to a level that will allow us to operate profitably and sustain positive operating cash flows. Although we are continuing our efforts to improve profitability through expansion of our business in both current and new markets, we must overcome significant manufacturing hurdles, including gearing up to produce large quantities of product or arranging to outsource the production of our products, and marketing hurdles, including market acceptance, in order to sell large quantities of our products. In addition, we may be required to reduce the prices of our products in order to increase sales. If we reduce product prices, we may not be able to reduce product costs sufficiently to achieve acceptable profit margins. As we strive to grow our business, we expect to spend significant funds (1) for general corporate purposes, including working capital, marketing, recruiting and hiring additional personnel; and (2) for research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain it. Our auditors have modified their opinion to our audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 to include an emphasis paragraph, stating that our continuing losses and negative cash flow from operations raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our management has developed a plan that includes among other things, raising additional capital to fund 9 Table of Contents operations until our sales and internally generated cash flow can support our ongoing operations. Whether we can succeed in implementing this plan remains to be seen. Our independent registered public accountants have issued a “going concern” opinion raising doubt about our financial viability. As a result of our continuing losses and negative cash flows, our independent registered public accounting firm, BDO Seidman, LLP, issued a “going concern” opinion in connection with their audit of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005. This opinion expressed substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The going concern opinion could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business plan, result in the reluctance on the part of certain suppliers to do business with us, result in the inability to obtain new business due to potential customers’ concern about our ability to deliver product, or adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Failure to replace significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have historically derived a significant portion of our annual revenue from a limited number of customers. Seldom has any one customer represented 10% or more of our revenues for more than one year in a row. This requires that we continually replace major customers whose needs we have satisfied, with one or more new customers. The failure to replace a major customer could have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A decrease in electric retail rates could lessen demand for our products. Our principal products, our EnergySaver and eMAC products, have the greatest profit potential in areas where commercial electric rates are relatively high. However, retail electric rates for commercial establishments in the United States may not remain at their current levels. Due to a potential overbuilding of power generating stations in certain regions of the United States, wholesale power prices may decrease in the future. Because the price of commercial retail electric power is largely attributed to the wholesale cost of power, it is reasonable to expect that commercial retail rates may decrease as well. In addition, much of the wholesale cost of power is directly related to the price of certain fuels, such as natural gas, oil and coal. If the prices of those fuels decrease, the prices of the wholesale cost of power may also decrease. This could result in lower electric retail rates and reduced demand for energy saving devices such as our EnergySaver and eMAC products. We have a license to use certain patents and our ability to sell our products may be adversely impacted if the license expires or is terminated. We have entered into a license agreement with Messrs. Giorgio Reverberi and Joseph Marino with regard to the core technology used in our EnergySaver product. Mr. Reverberi holds a U.S. patent and has applied for several patents in other countries. Pursuant to the terms of the license, we have been granted the exclusive right to manufacture and sell products containing the load reduction technology claimed under Mr. Reverberi’s U.S. patent or any other related patent held by him in the U.S., the remainder of North America, parts of South America and parts of Africa. However, the exclusive rights that we received may not have any value in territories where Mr. Reverberi does not have or does not obtain protectable rights. The term of the license expires when the last of these patents expires. We expect that these patents will expire around November 2017. The license agreement may be terminated if we materially breach its terms and fail to cure the breach within 180 days after we are notified of the breach. If our license is terminated it could impact our ability to manufacture, sell or otherwise commercialize products in those countries where Mr. Reverberi holds valid patents relating to our products, including the United States. 10 Table of Contents If we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement, or if others obtain intellectual property rights relating to energy management technology, we could lose our competitive advantage in the energy management market. We regard our intellectual property rights, such as patents, licenses of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, as important to our success. Although we entered into confidentiality and rights to inventions agreements with our employees and consultants, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights or we may not be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to take appropriate protective steps could materially adversely affect any competitive advantage we may have in the energy management market. Furthermore, our license to use Mr. Reverberi’s patents may have little or no value to us if Mr. Reverberi’s patents are not valid. In addition, patents held by third parties may limit our ability to manufacture, sell or otherwise commercialize products and could result in the assertion of claims of patent infringement against us. If that were to happen, we could try to modify our products to be non-infringing, but we might not be successful or such modifications might not avoid infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of patent infringement against us, regardless of merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources by us. We may be forced to seek to enter into license agreements with third parties (other than Mr. Reverberi) to resolve claims of infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of third parties. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms could have a negative effect on our business. David Asplund, our new Chief Executive Officer, has limited experience operating a Company such as ours and no direct industry experience. Mr. Asplund, who has been on our Board since June 2002, has a degree in mechanical engineering and has had a successful career in the financial industry. Mr. Asplund founded an investment banking firm in 1999 and operated the firm as its president for six years, but Mr. Asplund has not operated a manufacturing company. His past experience does not assure that he will be successful in his new role as CEO of Electric City. If we are unable to achieve or manage our growth, it will adversely affect our business, the quality of our products and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we succeed in growing our sales as we need to do, we will be subject to the risks inherent in the expansion and growth of a business enterprise. Growth in our business will place a strain on our operational and administrative resources and increase the level of responsibility for our existing and new management personnel. To manage our growth effectively, we will need to: • further develop and improve our operating, information, accounting, financial and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis; • improve our business development, marketing and sales capabilities; and • expand, train, motivate and manage our employee base. Our systems currently in place may not be adequate if we grow and may need to be modified and enhanced. The skills of management currently in place may not be adequate if we experience significant growth. 11 Table of Contents If our management fails to properly identify companies to acquire and to effectively negotiate the terms of these acquisition transactions, our growth may be impaired. As part of our growth strategy we intend to seek to acquire companies with complementary technologies, products and/or services. Our management, including our Board of Directors, will have discretion in identifying and selecting companies to be acquired by us and in structuring and negotiating these acquisitions. In general, our Common Stockholders may not have the opportunity to approve these acquisitions, although the holders of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock do have certain rights to approve acquisitions. In addition, in making acquisition decisions, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual operating results of any acquired company or the combination of us and an acquired company may fall significantly short of projections. We may be unable to acquire companies that we identify as targets for various reasons, including: • our inability to interest such companies in a proposed transaction; • our inability to agree on the terms of an acquisition; • incompatibility between our management and management of a target company; and • our inability to obtain any required approvals of the holders of the Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, or our lender, or if required, the holders of our Common Stock. If we cannot consummate acquisitions on a timely basis or agree on terms at all, or if we cannot acquire companies with complementary technologies, products and/or services on terms acceptable to us, our future growth may be impaired. Our growth may be impaired and our current business may suffer if we do not successfully address risks associated with acquisitions. Since January 1, 2000, we have acquired three companies; Switchboard Apparatus, Great Lakes Controlled Energy and Maximum Performance Group, Inc., one of which (Switchboard Apparatus) we subsequently sold and we have recently signed a letter of intent to sell Great Lakes. Our future growth may depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully identify, acquire and operate other complementary businesses. We may encounter problems associated with such acquisitions, including the following: • difficulties in integrating acquired operations and products with our existing operations and products; • difficulties in meeting operating expectations for acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse impact on earnings of amortization or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to acquisitions; and • issuances of equity securities that may be dilutive to existing stockholders to pay for acquisitions. If our products do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our ability to compete will be adversely affected. To date, we have not sold our EnergySaver or eMAC product lines or any other products in very large quantities and a sufficient market may not develop for them. Significant marketing will be required in order to establish a sufficient market for these products. The technology underlying our products may not become a preferred technology to address the energy management needs of our customers and potential customers. Failure to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize products on a timely 12 Table of Contents and cost-effective basis will have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the energy management market or to survive as a business. Failure to meet customers’ expectations or deliver expected technical performance could result in losses and negative publicity. Customer engagements involve the installation of energy management equipment that we design to help our clients reduce energy/power consumption. We rely on outside contractors to install our EnergySaver and eMAC products. Any defects in this equipment and/or its installation or any other failure to meet our customers’ expectations could result in: • delayed or lost revenues due to adverse customer reaction; • requirements to provide additional products, replacement parts and/or services to a customer at no charge; • negative publicity regarding us and our products, which could adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers; and • claims for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we have any responsibility for such failure. If sufficient additional funding is not available to us, the commercialization of our products and our ability to grow is likely to be hindered. Our operations have not generated positive cash flow since the inception of the Company in 1997. We have funded our operations through the issuance of common and preferred stock and secured debt. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow turns positive may depend on our ability to continue to raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt. If we are not successful in raising additional funds, we might have to significantly scale back or delay our growth plans, or possibly cease operations altogether. Any reduction or delay in our growth plans could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace, take advantage of business opportunities and develop or enhance our products. If we should have to cease operations altogether, your investment is likely to be lost. Raising additional capital or consummation of additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could dilute your ownership interest in us. It is likely that we will need to obtain additional funds in the future to grow our product development, manufacturing, marketing and sales activities at the pace that we intend, to continue to fund operating losses until our cash flow turns positive, or to fund acquisitions. If we determine that we do need to raise additional capital in the future and we are not successful in doing so, we might have to significantly scale back or delay our growth plans, reduce staff and delay planned expenditures on research and development and capital expenditures in order to continue as a going concern. Any reduction or delay in our growth plans could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace, take advantage of business opportunities and develop or enhance our products. If we receive additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution of their present equity ownership position and voting rights. Depending on the number of shares issued and the terms and conditions of the issuance, new equity securities could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our Common Stock. Depending on the terms, Common Stock holders may not have approval rights with respect to such issuances, although our Series E Convertible Preferred Stock may have such rights. 13 Table of Contents Failure to effectively market our energy management products could impair our ability to sell significant quantities of these products. One of the challenges we face in commercializing our energy management products is demonstrating the advantages of our products over competitive products. To do this, we will need to further develop our marketing and sales force. In addition to our internal sales force, we rely on third parties to market and sell our products. We currently maintain a number of relationships and have a number of agreements with third parties regarding the marketing and distribution of our EnergySaver products and depend to some degree upon the efforts of these third parties in marketing and selling these products. Maintenance of these relationships is based primarily on an ongoing mutual business opportunity and a good overall working relationship. The current contracts associated with certain of these relationships allow the distributors to terminate the relationship upon 30 days’ written notice. We recently terminated two distributors for failing to meet their sales quotas. Without these relationships, our ability to market and sell our EnergySaver products could be harmed and we may need to divert even more resources to increasing our internal sales force. If we are unable to expand our internal sales force and maintain our third party marketing relationships, our ability to generate significant revenues may be harmed. The distribution rights we have granted to third parties in specified geographic territories may make it difficult for us to grow our business in such territories if those distributors do not successfully market and support our products in those territories. We have in the past been, and may in the future be, involved in disputes with distributors that have distribution rights in specified geographic territories but are not achieving our goals. During 2000, we repurchased for cash and stock consideration the distribution rights from three distributors that were not meeting our sales goals. We recently settled a dispute with a former distributor to avoid the cost of further litigation. All of our distributors are currently in violation of their agreements with us for failing to meet their sales quotas. We may have to expend additional funds, incur debt or issue additional securities in the future to repurchase other distribution rights or pursue legal action to enforce our rights under distributor agreements that we have granted or may grant in the future. If we do not successfully compete with others in the very competitive energy management market, we may not achieve profitability. In the energy management market, we compete with other manufacturers of energy management products that are currently used by our potential customers. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources, larger research and development staffs and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than us. Our competitors may provide energy management products at lower prices and/or with superior performance. If we are unable to successfully compete with conventional and new technologies our business may be materially harmed. Product liability claims could result in losses and could divert our management’s time and resources. The manufacture and sale of our products creates a risk of product liability claims. Any product liability claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and reduced sales, cause us to incur significant expenses and divert our management’s time, attention and resources. We do have product liability insurance coverage; however, there is no assurance that such insurance is adequate to cover all potential claims. The successful assertion of any such claim against us could materially harm our liquidity and operating results. 14 Table of Contents Our current internal manufacturing capacity is limited and if demand for our products increases significantly and we are unable to increase our capacity quickly and efficiently our business could suffer. Our EnergySaver products are manufactured at our facilities. To be financially successful, we must manufacture our products, including our EnergySaver products, in substantial quantities, at acceptable costs and on a timely basis. While we have produced approximately 1,600 EnergySaver units over the past seven years, we have never approached what we believe is our production capacity. To produce larger quantities of our EnergySaver products at competitive prices and on a timely basis, we will have to further develop our processing, production control, assembly, testing and quality assurance capabilities. If our production requirements exceed our internal capacity we plan to contract with outside manufacturers to produce individual components and/or entire EnergySaver units. Since the manufacturing process that we are currently performing only involves the assembly of components manufactured by others, we believe there are many contract manufacturers located across the country that could assemble our EnergySaver product for us with relatively little lead time. We have had discussions with several potential contract manufacturers and they have produced units on a trial basis, but their ability to deliver significant quantities of product in a timely manner with acceptable quality is still unproven. We may be unable to manufacture our EnergySaver products in sufficient volume and may incur substantial costs and expenses in connection with manufacturing larger quantities of our EnergySaver products. If we are unable to make the transition to large-scale commercial production successfully, our business will be negatively affected. We could encounter substantial difficulties if we decide to outsource the manufacturing of our products, including delays in manufacturing and poor production quality. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Due to the current market price of our Common Stock, in conjunction with the fact that we are a relatively small company with a history of operating losses, the future trading market for our stock may not be active on a consistent basis, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. The trading volume of our stock in the future depends in part on our ability to increase our revenue and reduce or eliminate our operating losses, which should increase the attractiveness of our stock as an investment, thereby leading to a more liquid market for our stock on a consistent basis. If we are unable to achieve these goals, the trading market for our stock may be negatively affected, which may make it difficult for you to sell your shares. In addition, if we fail to continue to meet the American Stock Exchange’s requirements for continued listing we may be forced to move to the over-the-counter bulletin board, which may result in reduced liquidity and increased volatility for our stock. If an active and liquid trading market does not exist for our Common Stock, you may have difficulty selling your shares. The need to raise additional capital will most likely be dilutive to our current stockholders and could result in new investors receiving rights that are superior to those of existing stockholders. Since September 2001, we have issued shares of our preferred stock (including shares issued as dividends) that as of March 15, 2006 are convertible into 22,912,400 shares of our Common Stock. These shares of preferred stock are currently accruing dividends at the rate of 6% per year, though prior to March 22, 2004 they were accruing at the rate of 10% per year. To date we have issued shares of convertible preferred stock in satisfaction of accrued dividends convertible into 8,383,410 shares of Common Stock. The preferred stockholders all have rights that are superior to the rights of our common stockholders, including: 15 Table of Contents • a liquidation preference of $200 per share under our Series E Preferred (the only series of preferred which is currently outstanding); • special approval rights in respect of certain actions by the Company, including any issuance of shares of capital stock by the Company that would have the right to receive dividends or the right to participate in any distribution upon liquidation which will be senior to or equal to the rights of the Series E Preferred (other than to pay dividends on the Series E Preferred and under certain other limited exceptions such as conversion of outstanding convertible securities) and any acquisition, sale, merger, joint venture, consolidation or reorganization involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries; • a conversion price that may be below the market price of our Common Stock; • the right to elect up to four directors; • the right to vote with the holders of Common Stock on an “as converted” basis on all matters on which holders of our Common Stock are entitled to vote, except (if more than 19,999 shares of Series E Preferred are outstanding) with respect to the election of directors or as otherwise provided by law; • a right of first offer on the sale of equity by the Company in a private transaction; and • anti-dilution protection that would adjust the conversion price on their preferred shares and the exercise price on their related warrants in the event we issue common equity at a price which is less than the conversion price or exercise price of their securities. These rights associated with our preferred stock are substantially different than the rights of our common stockholders and may materially decrease the value of our Common Stock. Due to the concentration of holdings of our stock, four investors may be able to control matters requiring common stockholder approval or could cause our stock price to decline through future sales because they beneficially own a large percentage of our Common Stock. There are 51,475,066 shares of our Common Stock outstanding as of March 15, 2006, of which Joseph C. Marino beneficially owns approximately 13%, Richard Kiphart (our Chairman) beneficially owns approximately 16%, Security Benefit beneficially owns approximately 14% and Laurus Master Fund Ltd. (“Laurus”) beneficially owns approximately 15% (each of the aforementioned percentages includes stock options and warrants that are currently exercisable and in the case of Mr. Kiphart include stock issuable upon conversion of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, and in the case of Laurus includes shares issuable upon conversion of convertible debt and the exercise of warrants which possess exercise caps that require 76 days notice prior to acquiring shares in excess of 4.99%). As a result of their significant ownership, Mr. Marino, Mr. Kiphart, Security Benefit and Laurus may have the ability to exercise a controlling influence over our business and corporate actions requiring common stockholder approval, including the election of our directors (other than those directors to be chosen by the holders of our preferred stock), a sale of substantially all of our assets, a merger between us and another entity or an amendment to our certificate of incorporation. This concentration of ownership could delay, defer or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. Also, in the event of a sale of our business, Mr. Marino, Mr. Kiphart, Security Benefit and Laurus could be able to elect to receive a control premium to the exclusion of other common stockholders. A significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock, including the shares beneficially owned by Mr. Marino, Mr. Kiphart, Security Benefit and Laurus, can be sold in the public market from time to time, subject to limitations imposed by Federal securities laws, and in the case of Mr. Kiphart, by trading agreements entered into with us. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our presently outstanding shares of Common Stock by Mr. Marino, Mr. Kiphart, Security Benefit, Laurus or other stockholders in the public market or due to the 16 Table of Contents perception that these sales could occur. This could also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of our equity securities or for you to sell your shares if you choose to do so. Provisions of our charter and by-laws, in particular our “blank check” preferred stock, could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders. Provisions of our charter and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company, even if a change in control would benefit our stockholders. In particular, shares of our preferred stock have been issued and may be issued in the future without further stockholder approval and upon those terms and conditions, and having those rights, privileges and preferences, as our Board of Directors may determine (subject to certain approval rights of our Series E Preferred). The rights of the holders of our Common Stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any of our preferred stock which is currently outstanding or which may be issued in the future. The issuance of our preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in pursuing possible additional equity financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. This could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock and discourage these investors from acquiring a majority of our Common Stock. In addition, the price that future investors may be willing to pay for our Common Stock may be lower due to the conversion price and exercise price granted to investors in any such private financing. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 