Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many factors that affect the Company’s business, many of which are beyond the Company’s control. The following is a description of the most significant factors that might materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to risks related to the retail environment that could adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company is subject to risks associated with doing business in the retail environment, primarily in the United States. Recently, the U.S. retail industry has experienced a growing trend toward consolidation of large retailers. The merger of major retailers could result in the Company losing sales volume or increasing its concentration of business with a few large accounts, resulting in reduced bargaining power on the part of the Company, which could increase pricing pressures and lower the Company’s margins. The acquisition of one of the Company’s major customers in 2005 is expected to adversely impact the Company’s sales in 2006. Changes in consumer preferences could negatively impact the Company. The Company’s success is dependent upon its ability to accurately anticipate and respond to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer preferences. Failure to predict or respond to current trends or preferences could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales volume and overall performance. The Company relies on independent foreign sources of production and the availability of leather and other raw materials which could have unfavorable effects on the Company’s business. The Company purchases its products entirely from independent foreign manufacturers primarily in Brazil, China and India. Although the Company has good working relationships with its manufacturers, the Company does not have long-term contracts with them. Thus, the Company cannot ensure that it will not experience increases in manufacturing costs, disruptions in the timely supply of products or unanticipated reductions in manufacturing capacity, any of which could negatively impact the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company has the ability to move product to different suppliers, however, the transition may not occur smoothly and/or quickly and the Company could miss customer delivery date requirements and consequently, could lose orders. Additional risks associated with foreign sourcing that could negatively impact the Company’s business include adverse changes in foreign economic conditions, import regulations, restrictions on the transfer of funds, duties, tariffs, quotas and political or labor interruptions, foreign currency fluctuations, expropriation and nationalization. The Company’s use of foreign sources of production results in long production and delivery lead times. Therefore, the Company needs to forecast demand at least five months in advance. If forecasts are wrong, it could result in the loss of sales if there is not enough product, or in reduced margins if there is excess inventory that needs to be sold at discounted prices. -3- Additionally, the Company’s products depend on the availability of raw materials, especially leather. Any significant shortages of quantities or increases in the cost of leather could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment, which may result in lower prices and reduce its profits. The men’s footwear market is extremely competitive. The Company competes with manufacturers, distributors and retailers of men’s shoes, certain of which are larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company has. The Company competes with these companies primarily on the basis of price, quality, service and brand recognition, all of which are important competitive factors in the shoe industry. The Company’s ability to maintain its competitive edge depends upon these factors, as well as its ability to deliver new products at the best value for the consumer, maintain positive brand recognition, and obtain sufficient retail floor space and effective product presentation at retail. If the Company does not remain competitive, the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition could decline. Changes in the U.S. economy may adversely affect the Company. Spending patterns in the footwear market, and particularly in the moderate market in which a good portion of the Company’s products compete, have historically been impacted by consumers’ disposable income. As a result, the success of the Company is impacted by changes in the general economic conditions of the U.S. Factors affecting discretionary income for the moderate consumer include, among others, general business conditions, gas and energy costs, employment, consumer confidence, interest rates and taxation. The Company’s business is dependent on information and communication systems, and significant interruptions could disrupt its business. The Company accepts and fills the majority of its larger customers’ orders through the use of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI). It relies on its warehouse management system to efficiently process orders. The corporate office relies on computer systems to efficiently process and record transactions. Significant interruptions in its information and communication systems from power loss, telecommunications failure or computer system failure could significantly disrupt the Company’s business and operations. The Company may not be able to successfully integrate new brands and businesses. The Company intends to continue to look for new acquisition opportunities. That search could be unsuccessful and costs could be incurred in failed search efforts. If an acquisition does occur, the Company cannot guarantee that it would be able to successfully integrate the brand into its current operations, or that any acquired brand would achieve results in line with the Company’s historical performance or its specific expectations for the brand. -4- Loss of the services of the Company’s top executives could adversely affect the business. Thomas W. Florsheim, Jr., the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and John W. Florsheim, the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer, have a strong heritage within the Company and the footwear industry. They possess knowledge, relationships and reputations based on their lifetime exposure to and experience in the Company and the industry. The loss of either one or both of the Company’s top executives could have an adverse impact on the Company’s performance. The limited public float and trading volume for the Company’s stock may have an adverse impact on the stock price or make it difficult to liquidate. The Company’s common stock is held by a relatively small number of shareholders. The Florsheim family owns over 30% of the stock and two other institutional shareholders hold significant blocks. Other officers, directors, and members of management own stock or have the potential to own stock through previously granted stock options. Consequently, the Company has a small float and low average daily trading volume. Future sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely impact the market price of the stock and the stock could be difficult to liquidate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 