ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the financial statements and the notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8, of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If current adverse global market and economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Recent market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging, with significantly tighter credit markets and a recession that is expected to continue into the second half of 2009. These conditions, combined with the deteriorating financial conditions of numerous financial institutions, rising unemployment and declining residential and commercial real estate markets, among other things, have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. and other economies. As a result of these conditions, the cost and availability of credit has been and may continue to be adversely affected in the markets in which we own properties and we and our tenants conduct operations. Concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of numerous financial institutions specifically has led many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease, to provide funding to borrowers. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants and our lenders. If these market and economic conditions continue, they may limit our ability, and the ability of our tenants, to replace or renew maturing liabilities on a timely basis, access the capital markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure requirements and may result in adverse effects on our and our tenants’ financial condition and results of operations. If our tenants’ businesses or ability to obtain financing deteriorates further, they may be unable to pay rent to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. We cannot assure you that continuing long-term disruptions in the global economy and the continuation of tighter credit conditions among, and potential failures of, third party financial institutions as a result of such disruptions, will not have an adverse effect on our lenders. If our lenders are not able to meet their funding commitment to us, our business, results of operation, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In response to the deteriorating market and economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to help stabilize the banking system and financial markets and to reduce the severity and length of the recession. We cannot predict the duration or severity of the current economic challenges, nor can we provide assurance that our responses to the current economic downturn, or the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies attempts to stabilize the banking system and financial markets and to stimulate the economy, will be successful. -18- Table of Contents The recent downturn in the commercial and residential real estate market has substantially reduced real estate values, which may cause us to not be able to sell developed property or cause us to sell such property at a loss. The real estate business is a cyclical business. Currently, weak economic conditions in the United States and Puerto Rico have substantially slowed residential and commercial property sales, which have caused a reduction in property values. Continued significant declines in the prices for real estate could cause us not to be able to sell developed property or to have to sell such property at a loss, which could adversely affect our business and operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We depend on our tenants to pay rents, and their inability to pay rents may substantially reduce our revenues and cash available for distributions to our shareholders. Our investments in residential apartment properties are subject to varying degrees of risk that generally arise from the ownership of real estate. The underlying value of our properties and the ability to make distributions to our shareholders depend upon the ability of the tenants of our properties to generate enough income to pay their rents in a timely manner. Their inability to do so may be impacted by employment and other constraints on their personal finances, including debts, purchases and other factors. Changes beyond our control may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to make lease payments and consequently would substantially reduce both our income from operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. These changes include, among others, the following: ● changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; ● changes in local market conditions; and ● changes in federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, interest rates, fuel and energy consumption. Due to these changes or others, tenants and lease guarantors, if any, may be unable to make their lease payments. A default by a tenant, the failure of a tenant’s guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease could, depending upon the size of the leased premises and our advisor’s ability to successfully find a substitute tenant, have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and the value of our common shares or our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If we are unable to find tenants for our properties, or find replacement tenants when leases expire and are not renewed by the tenants, our revenues and cash available for distribution to our shareholders will be substantially reduced. Our revenue and cash available for distributions to shareholders could be materially adversely affected if any significant tenant or tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a material adverse event or a downturn in their business. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate its lease with us. Our claim against the tenant for unpaid and/or future rent would be subject to a statutory cap that might be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and our claim for unpaid rent would likely not be paid in full. Our revenue and cash available for distributions to our shareholders could be materially adversely affected if our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent or suffer a downturn in their business. We may be unable to renew expiring leases or re-lease vacant space on a timely basis or on attractive terms, which could significantly decrease our cash flow. Current tenants may not renew their leases upon the expiration of their terms. Alternatively, current tenants may attempt to terminate their leases prior to the expiration of their current terms. If non-renewals or terminations occur, we may not be able to locate qualified replacement tenants and, as a result, we could lose a significant source of revenue while remaining responsible for the payment of our obligations. Moreover, the terms of a renewal or new lease may be less favorable than the current lease terms. Any of these factors could cause a decline in lease revenue, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. We may be subject to risks with respect to our acquisition and development activities. The agreements we execute to acquire properties generally are subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations which may be unacceptable. Acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing our investments. We engage in development of certain types of properties for lease or sale. Development involves many risks, including the following: ● we may be unable to obtain, or may suffer delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased costs, modification or abandonment of these projects; ● we may incur construction costs for property which exceed our original estimates due to increased costs for materials or labor or other costs that we did not anticipate; ● we may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, which may render us unable to proceed with our development activities; ● we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a property on schedule, which could result in increased debt service expense or construction costs; and ● occupancy rates and rents at the newly completed property may not meet the expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. The bulk of our operations are concentrated in Maryland and Puerto Rico, making us particularly vulnerable to changes in local economic conditions. In addition, if weather conditions, or a natural disaster such as a hurricane or tornado, were to impact those regions, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Although insurance could mitigate some amount of losses from a catastrophe in those regions, it might not fully compensate us for our opportunity costs or our projected results of future operations in those regions, the market acceptance of which might be different after a catastrophe. -19- Table of Contents Additionally, the time frame required for development, construction and lease-up of these properties means that we may have to wait years for significant cash returns and may never realize cash returns. Because we anticipate paying cash distributions to our shareholders, if the cash flow from operations or refinancing is not sufficient, we may be forced to borrow additional money to fund such distributions. Newly developed and acquired properties may not produce the returns that we expect, particularly in the current global economic environment, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. In deciding whether to acquire or develop a particular property, we make assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. In particular, we estimate the return on our investment based on expected occupancy and rental rates. Some of these estimates were made in advance of the recent economic downturn, and we cannot assure you that our operations at these properties will not be adversely affected by the current global economic environment relative to our original estimates. Additionally, we have acquired, and may continue to acquire, properties not fully leased, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with that property until the property is more fully leased at favorable rental rates. If our estimated return on investment for the property proves to be inaccurate and the property is unable to achieve the expected occupancy and rental rates, it may fail to perform as we expected in analyzing the investment. The recent credit crisis may adversely affect potential homebuyers’ ability to obtain financing and our ability to obtain development financing or refinance current mortgage loans. Our business is substantially dependent on the ability of our customers to finance the purchase of our land or homes. The current credit crisis has increased lender scrutiny of potential borrowers and has made it difficult for some potential homebuyers to obtain financing. Continued or increasing limitations on the availability of financing or increases in the cost of such financing could adversely affect our operations. Our business is also substantially dependent on our ability to obtain financing for our development activities as well as refinancing our properties’ mortgages. Increases in interest rates, concerns about the credit market or the economy, or consolidation or dissolution of financial institutions could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain the funds required for our future operations, and limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. Changes in competition, availability of financing, customer trends and market conditions may also impact our ability to obtain loans to finance the development of our future communities. The Company has two lines of credit and one non-recourse mortgage that mature in 2009. In the United States, a $14,000,000 revolving line of credit loan that was set to mature on April 14, 2009 has been extended to March 31, 2010 with quarterly scheduled payments as follows: first quarter payment of $2,200,000 on March 31, 2009; second quarter payment of $1,300,000 on June 30, 2009; third quarter payment of $300,000 on September 30, 2009; fourth quarter payment of $2,200,000 on December 31, 2009; and the remaining balance of approximately $571,000 in the first quarter of 2010. Although the Company has extended this line of credit, the Company continues to work with other lenders to replace this facility entirely. The Company has certain financial covenants related to this revolving line of credit. As of December 31, 2008, the Company failed to meet the Minimum Net Worth covenant at the ACPT level as tangible net worth was $1,341,000. The Company has received a waiver of this covenant requirement through March 31, 2010. The failure to meet this covenant did not impact any other debt agreements. In Puerto Rico, a $10,000,000 credit facility, with an outstanding balance of $4,327,000 as of December 31, 2008, matures on August 31, 2009. The Company anticipates that the balance outstanding on this facility will be approximately $8,300,000 as of August 31, 2009. While the Company will seek to refinance the line into a construction loan for the development of residential condominiums or extending the term of the facility, the current state of the credit market may prevent these plans from occurring. IGP provided a guarantee on this credit facility; however, the lender's recourse under this guarantee is limited to the collateral, except in the case of fraud, intentional misrepresentation, or misappropriation of income associated with the collateral. In the event of a default, the lender's sole recourse is to foreclose on the property. An event of default on this facility will not affect any other debt facility held by the Company. The collateral to support the line of credit consists of 427 acres of land, which has a cost basis of $11,500,000 at December 31, 2008. There is no income generated from this property as it is in the planning stages for the development of the Company’s second planned community in Puerto Rico. Also in Puerto Rico, the Company has a mortgage balance maturing on April 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2008, the balance due was $6,816,000. The Company is in the process of refinancing this mortgage. However, should the Company be unable to negotiate or refinance with acceptable terms, the sole collateral for this mortgage is the Monserrate Associates apartment property, which has a cost basis of $3,785,000 at December 31, 2008. This property generated approximately $2,700,000 of revenue and $400,000 of pre-tax income in 2008. Borrowing increases our business risks. Debt service increases the expense of operations since we are responsible for retiring the debt and paying the attendant interest, which may result in decreased cash available for distribution to our shareholders. In the event the fair market value of our properties was to increase, we could incur more debt without a commensurate increase in cash flow to service the debt. In addition, our trustees can change our policy relating to the incurrence of debt at any time without shareholder approval. We may incur indebtedness secured by our properties, which subjects those properties to foreclosure. Incurring mortgage indebtedness increases the risk of possible loss. Most of our borrowings to acquire properties are secured by mortgages on our properties. If we default on our secured indebtedness, the lender may foreclose and we could lose our entire investment in the properties securing such loan which could adversely affect distributions to shareholders. For federal tax purposes, any such foreclosure would be treated as a sale of the property for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage and, if the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our basis of the property, there could be taxable income upon a foreclosure. To the extent lenders require us to cross-collateralize our properties, or our loan agreements contain cross-default provisions, a default under a single loan agreement could subject multiple properties to foreclosure. -20- Table of Contents Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our shareholders. Higher interest rates could increase debt service requirements on variable rate debt and could adversely affect our results of operations and reduce the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. Additionally, such change in economic conditions could cause the terms on which borrowings become available to be unfavorable. In such circumstances, if we are in need of capital to repay indebtedness in accordance with its terms or otherwise, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Increased construction of similar properties that compete with our properties in any particular location could adversely affect the operating results of our properties and our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We may acquire properties in locations which experience increases in construction of properties that compete with our properties. This increased competition and construction could: ● make it more difficult for us to find tenants to lease units in our apartment communities; ● force us to lower our rental prices in order to lease units in our apartment communities; and ● substantially reduce our revenues and cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to adverse changes in the performance of such properties may be limited, thus harming our financial condition. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: ● adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; ● changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; ● changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; ● the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older buildings; ● changes in operating expenses; and ● civil unrest, acts of war and natural disasters, including earthquakes and floods, which may result in uninsured and underinsured losses. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. We may also acquire properties that are subject to a mortgage loan that may limit our ability to sell the properties prior to the loan’s maturity. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders. Lack of geographic diversity may expose us to regional economic downturns that could adversely impact our operations or our ability to recover our investment in one or more properties. Geographic concentration of properties exposes us to economic downturns in the areas where our properties are located. Because we mainly operate in the suburban areas surrounding Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, our portfolio of properties may not be geographically diversified. A regional recession in any of these areas could adversely affect our ability to generate or increase operating revenues, attract new tenants or dispose of unproductive properties. Competition with entities that have greater financial resources could make it more difficult for us to acquire attractive properties and achieve our investment objectives. We compete for investment opportunities with entities with substantially greater financial resources. These entities may be able to accept more risk than our board of trustees believes is in our best interests. This competition may limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. This competition also may increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire properties. In addition, we believe that competition from entities organized for purposes similar to ours may increase in the future. Our revenue and cash available for distributions to shareholders could be materially adversely affected if Lennar or any other significant customer were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a material adverse event or a downturn in their business. Revenues from Lennar include residential land sales as well as certain management fees. Total revenues from Lennar within our U.S. Land Development segment were $12,438,000 for the year ended December 31, 2008 which represented 84% of the U.S. Land Development segment’s revenue and 15% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue for the year ended December 31, 2008. Loss of all or a substantial portion of our land sales, as well as our joint venture’s land sales, to Lennar would have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. Although Lennar was contractually obligated to purchase 200 lots per year, the market is not currently sufficient to absorb this sales pace. Accordingly, Lennar’s management requested and the Company granted a reduction of the 200 lot requirement for 2008 through 2011. Management agreed to accept a total of 119 lots as satisfaction of their lot takedown requirement for 2008 and 100 lots per year for 2009 through 2011. In addition, the Company agreed to a temporary price reduction to 25% of the selling price of the home for 2009 through 2011. Should Lennar not comply with their obligations pursuant our amended contract or there be a reduced demand for our commercial property our revenue and cash available for distributions to our shareholders would be adversely impacted. -21- Table of Contents We may be unable to renew our HUD subsidy contracts and may lose federal funding to service these contracts. As of December 31, 2008, we owned equity interests in multifamily rental properties that benefit from governmental programs intended to provide housing to people with low or moderate incomes. These programs, which are usually administered by HUD or state housing finance agencies, typically provide mortgage insurance, favorable financing terms or rental assistance payments to the property owners. Historically, there have been delays in the receipt of subsidy payments which generally occur upon contract renewal and HUD’s annual budget renewal process. For HUD properties held in partnerships in which we serve as General Partner, we may be required to fund operating cash deficits when these delays occur. General Partner advances or loans to the partnerships may then become subject to the repayment provisions required by the respective partnership agreements which may impede the timing of repayment. Furthermore, as a condition of the receipt of assistance under these programs, the properties must comply with various requirements, which typically limit rents to pre-approved amounts. If permitted rents on a property are insufficient to cover costs, our cash flow from these properties will be negatively impacted, and our management fees may be reduced or eliminated. An uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to lost capital or revenue on those properties. We may experience economic harm if any damage to our properties is not covered by insurance. We carry insurance coverage on our properties of the type and in amounts that we believe is in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties. We believe all of our properties are adequately insured. However, we cannot guarantee that the limits of our current policies will be sufficient in the event of a catastrophe to our properties. We may suffer losses that are not covered under our comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and rental loss insurance policies. We would nevertheless remain obligated on any mortgage indebtedness or other obligations related to the property. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits should occur, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in a property, as well as any future revenue from the property, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. The costs of compliance with, or liabilities under, environmental laws may adversely affect our operating results. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing or future environmental laws and regulations. An owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence, release or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: ● our lack of knowledge of the contamination; ● the timing of the contamination; ● the cause of the contamination; or ● the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be environmental problems associated with our properties of which we are unaware. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership interest. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property, and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although many of our leases generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we could nonetheless be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by our tenants, and we cannot be sure that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. Certain leases with significant tenants do not indemnify us against environmental liabilities arising from these tenants’ activities on the property. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. Our properties may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property. In a similar manner, the existence of a significant amount of lead based paint at our properties could result in costly remediation efforts. In addition, the presence of significant mold or lead based paint could expose us to liability from our tenants, employees of our tenants and others if property damage or health concerns arise. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Noncompliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and an order to correct any non-complying feature, which may require substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance, and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. -22- Table of Contents In addition, our properties are subject to various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. In addition, we do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether future requirements will require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or any other legislative or regulatory requirements, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, market price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. Our business could be harmed if key personnel terminate their employment with us. We could be hurt by the loss of key management personnel. Our future success depends, to a significant degree, on the efforts of our senior management. Our operations could be adversely affected if key members of senior management cease to be active in our company. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect any market on which our securities trade, the markets in which we operate, our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operation and profitability. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs. The terrorism insurance that we obtain may not be sufficient to cover loss for damages to our properties as a result of terrorist attacks. In addition, certain losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable and others would not be covered by our current terrorism insurance. Additional terrorism insurance may not be available at a reasonable price or at all. If the properties in which we invest are unable to obtain sufficient and affordable insurance coverage, the value of these investments could decline, and in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of an investment. The United States may enter into armed conflicts in the future. The consequences of any armed conflicts are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business. Any of these events could result in increased volatility in or damage to the United States and worldwide financial markets and economy. They also could result in a continuation of the current economic uncertainty in the United States or abroad. Adverse economic conditions could affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to our security holders, and may adversely affect and/or result in volatility in the market price for our securities. If we were to be taxed as a corporation rather than a partnership, we would experience adverse tax consequences with respect to the income earned from our Puerto Rico operations. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”), provides that publicly traded partnerships such as ACPT will, as a general rule, be taxed as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, subject to certain exceptions. We have relied in the past, and expect to continue to rely on an exception to this general rule for publicly traded partnerships that earn 90% or more of their gross income for every taxable year from specified types of “qualifying income,” including dividends. If we fail to meet this “qualifying income” exception or are otherwise treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the income we earn from our Puerto Rico operations would be subject to increased taxes. We do not believe that there would be an increase in the U.S. income taxes that would be imposed on our U.S. operations if ACPT were not to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes because our U.S. operations are conducted through U.S. corporations that are subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, our classification as a partnership does permit us to reduce the overall taxes that the Company pays on the operations of our Puerto Rican subsidiary (because, in ACPT’s current partnership tax structure, ACPT is taxed in Puerto Rico, but not in the United States, on those operations). If we were not able to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the net result would be an incremental increase in ACPT’s total tax expense on income for operations in Puerto Rico, although it is not practicable to quantify that potential impact. In addition, if we were not to qualify as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, any foreign tax credits generated by our Puerto Rico operations would be used by us and would no longer be passed through to our shareholders. The tax liabilities of our shareholders may exceed the amount of the cash distributions we make to them. A shareholder generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on his or her allocable share of our taxable income, whether or not we distribute that income to the shareholders. We intend to make elections and take other actions so that, to the extent possible, our taxable income will be allocated to individual shareholders in accordance with the cash received by them. In addition, we are generally required by our Declaration of Trust to make minimum aggregate distributions, in cash or property, each year to our shareholders equal to 45% of our net taxable income, reduced by the amount of Puerto Rico taxes we pay. If our income consists largely of cash distributions from our subsidiaries, as expected, it is likely that we will have sufficient cash to distribute to shareholders. There can be no assurance, however, that our income allocations to the individual shareholders will be respected or that we will be able to make distributions in any given year that provide each individual shareholder with sufficient cash to meet his or her federal and state income tax liabilities with respect to his or her share of our income. However, there is a proposed Treasury regulation that may affect the ability of our shareholders to claim foreign tax credits attributable to their investment in us under Section 901 of the Internal Revenue Code. On November 19, 2007, IRS Notice 2007-95 provided a delay of the effective date of proposed amendments to the foreign tax credit regulations. The regulations, with or without changes, will be effective for tax years beginning after the final regulations are published in the Federal Register. A portion of the proceeds from the sale of our shares may be taxed as ordinary income. A shareholder will generally recognize gain or loss on the sales of our shares equal to the difference between the amount realized and the shareholder’s tax basis in the shares sold. Except as noted below, the gain or loss recognized by a shareholder, other than a “dealer” in our shares, on the sale or exchange of shares held for more than one year, will generally be taxable as a capital gain or loss. Capital gain recognized by an individual on the sale of shares held more than 12 months will generally be taxed at a maximum rate of 15%. -23- Table of Contents A portion of this gain or loss, however, may be taxable as ordinary income under Section 751 of the Code to the extent attributable to so-called “unrealized receivables,” which term, for this purpose, includes stock in our Puerto Rican subsidiary to the extent that gain from our sale of that stock would be taxable to our shareholders as a dividend under Section 1248 of the Internal Revenue Code. The amount of ordinary income attributable to “unrealized receivables” related to stock in our Puerto Rican subsidiary will be determined based on the amount of earnings and profits accumulated by our Puerto Rican subsidiary. We will provide to each selling shareholder, at the time we send the IRS Schedule K-1 materials, a table showing the earnings and profits accumulated by our Puerto Rican subsidiary by year and the average number of our shares outstanding during the year, so that the shareholder may make a determination of the amount of earnings and profits allocable to him or her and the amount of ordinary income to be recognized on the sale. Although there is no definitive authority on the question, we believe that it is reasonable to base the allocation on the earnings and profits accumulated during the period that the shareholder held the shares that are sold and the percentage of our average number of shares outstanding that those shares represented. The amount of unrealized receivables may exceed the net taxable capital gain that a shareholder would otherwise realize on the sale of our shares, and may be recognized even if the shareholder would realize a net taxable capital loss on the sale. Thus, a shareholder may recognize both ordinary income and capital loss upon a sale of our shares. Accordingly, a shareholder considering the sale of our shares is urged to consult a tax advisor concerning the portion of the proceeds that may be treated as ordinary income. In addition, the shareholder is required to report to us any sale of his or her shares, unless the broker effecting the transaction files a Form 1099-B with respect to the sale transaction. Tax rules relating to the tax basis and holding period of interests in a partnership differ from those rules affecting corporate stock generally, and these special rules may impact purchases and sales of our shares in separate transactions. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has ruled that an investor who acquires interests in an entity taxed as a partnership, such as ACPT, in separate transactions must combine those interests and maintain a single adjusted tax basis for those interests. Upon a sale or other disposition of less than all of the shares held by a shareholder, a portion of the shareholder’s tax basis in all of his or her shares must be allocated to the shares sold using an “equitable apportionment” method, which generally means that the tax basis allocated to the shares sold bears the same relation to the shareholder’s tax basis in all of the shares held as the value of the shares sold bears to the value of all of the Shares held by the shareholder immediately prior to the sale. Furthermore, Treasury regulations under Section 1223 of the Internal Revenue Code generally provide that if a shareholder has acquired shares at different times, the holding period of the transferred shares shall be divided between long-term and short-term capital gain or loss in the same proportions as the long-term and short-term capital gain or loss that the shareholder would realize if all of the shareholder’s shares were transferred in a fully taxable transaction immediately before the actual transfer. The Treasury regulations provide, however, a special rule that allows a selling shareholder who can identify shares transferred with an ascertainable holding period to elect to use the actual holding period of the shares transferred. Thus, according to the ruling discussed above, a shareholder will be unable to select high or low basis shares to sell as would be the case with shares of entities treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes, but, according to the Treasury regulations, may designate specific shares for purposes of determining the holding period of the shares transferred. A shareholder electing to use the actual holding period of shares transferred must consistently use that identification method for all subsequent sales or exchanges of shares. A shareholder considering the purchase of additional shares or a sale of shares purchased in separate transactions is urged to consult his or her tax advisor as to the possible consequences of the ruling and the application of these Treasury regulations. We would experience adverse tax consequences with respect to the income earned from our Puerto Rico operations if the IRS successfully asserts that the “anti-stapling” rules apply to our investments in IGP Group and our U.S. corporate subsidiaries. If we were subject to the “anti-stapling” rules of Section 269B of the Internal Revenue Code, we would experience adverse tax consequences as a result of owning more than 50% of the value of both a domestic corporate subsidiary and a foreign corporate subsidiary, such as IGP Group. If the “anti-stapling” rules applied, IGP Group would be treated as a domestic corporation, which would cause IGP Group to be subject to U.S. federal income tax. The net result would be an incremental increase in ACPT’s total tax expense on income for operations in Puerto Rico, although it is not practicable to quantify that potential impact. In addition, if the anti-stapling rules applied, we would no longer have foreign tax credits attributable to our Puerto Rico operations to pass through to our shareholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 