ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our business, and an investment in our securities, involves risks. The following summary describes factors we believe are material risks relating to our business and to the ownership of our securities. Our discussion of these risks contains forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. In addition, or financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our common stock, may be substantially affected by other risks, including risks we have not identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. This summary does not purport to describe all risks that might possibly affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or the market price of our common stock. 11 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS If the interest payments we make on our deposits increase relative to our interest income, we may be less profitable. Our profitability depends to a large extent on Superior Bank's net interest income, which is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans we make and investment securities we hold, and interest we pay on deposits and our own borrowings. Our net interest income is affected not only by actions we take, but by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature at a time when interest rates are declining, or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature at a time when interest rates are rising. In addition, we may be affected by changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. For example, short-term deposits may be used to support longer-term loans. If the difference between short-and long-term interest rates becomes smaller, the spread between the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings and the rates we receive on loans we make could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. Further, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit our ability to increase interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans, but we may have to pay higher interest rates on deposits and borrowings. This could cause our net interest income to decrease. An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. The rate at which borrowers prepay loans is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including changes in market interest rates, conditions in the housing and financial markets and general economic conditions. We cannot always accurately predict prepayment rates. If the prepayment rates with respect to our loans are greater than we anticipate, there may be a negative impact on our profitability because we may not be able to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to those we received on the prepaid loans, particularly in a time of falling interest rates. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate, our profitability will be reduced. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing such loans will be insufficient to ensure full repayment. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and our failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and review our evaluation on a regular basis, and we provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based on various factors that we believe may affect the credit quality of our loans. However, there can be no assurance that actual loan losses will not exceed the allowance that we have established, as such allowance is adjusted from time to time. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate for the actual losses we experience, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if as a result of our perception of adverse trends, we materially increase or allowance for loan losses in the future, such increase would also reduce our earnings. Events in our geographic markets could adversely affect us. Our business is concentrated in a limited number of markets in Alabama and Florida. Changes in general economic conditions and in the values of real estate in such geographic markets could have an adverse impact on our ability to achieve our loan and deposit growth targets and on our customers' ability to repay existing loans. In addition, natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornadoes, in our geographic markets could adversely affect our business. We face substantial competition. There are numerous competitors in our geographic markets, including national, regional and local banks and thrifts and other financial services businesses, some of which have substantially greater resources, higher brand visibility and a wider geographic presence than we have. Some of these competitors may offer a greater range of services, more favorable pricing and greater customer convenience than we are able to. In addition, in some of our markets, there are a significant number of new banks and other financial institutions that have opened in the recent past or are expected to open in the near future, and such new competitors may also seek to exploit our markets and customer base. If we are unable to maintain and grow our market share in the face of such competition, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 12 We are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We are also subject to applicable regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank. Regulation by these entities is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such regulations, and our failure to comply with them may expose us to substantial penalties. In addition, we are subject to numerous consumer protection laws and other laws relating to the operation of financial institutions. Our failure to comply with such laws could expose us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may require additional capital to fund our growth plans. Our business strategy includes the expansion of our business through the development of new locations and through the acquisition of other financial institutions and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, complementary businesses as appropriate opportunities arise. In order to finance such growth and to maintain required regulatory capital levels, we may require additional capital in the future. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available upon favorable terms, or at all. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our operations and strategy are directed by our senior management team, most of whom have joined The Banc Corporation since January 2005. Any loss of the services of members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to implement our business strategy. RISKS RELATED TO AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMMON STOCK Our stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ National Market System. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is relatively small, typically under 50,000 shares per day and sometimes significantly less than that. As a result, trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. Our ability to pay dividends is limited. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory requirements and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital to meet the capital needs of our business, including capital needs related to future growth. Our primary source of income is the payment of dividends from Superior Bank to us. Superior Bank, in turn, is likewise subject to regulatory requirements potentially limiting its ability to pay such dividends to us and by the need to maintain sufficient capital for its operations and obligations. Further, we are obligated, subject to regulatory limitations, to make periodic distributions on our trust preferred securities, which reduces the income that might otherwise be available to pay dividends on our common stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our common stockholders, no assurance as to the amount or timing of any such dividends, and no assurance that such dividends, if and when paid, will be maintained, at the same level or at all, in future periods. The market price of our common stock has risen significantly in a relatively short period of time. The market price of our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ National Market System, increased by approximately 32% between December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2005. We believe that this increase resulted in part from investors' perception as to the ability of our new senior management team to execute our business strategy and enhance stockholder value. There can be no assurance that the market price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level, which is substantially above historic trading prices prior to 2005. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions or to raise capital may be dilutive to existing stockholders. When we determine that appropriate strategic opportunities exist, we may acquire other financial institutions and related businesses, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. We may use our common stock for such acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to raise capital through selling additional common stock. It is possible that the issuance of additional common stock in such acquisition or 13 capital transactions may be dilutive to the interests of our existing stockholders (see "Recently Announced Merger Agreement" above). ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 