Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements and financial discussion and analysis by our management contained in this 10-K that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. They reflect management's current views with respect to future events and, accordingly, are subject to certain assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed below. If any of the following or other risks actually occurs, or should our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those anticipated by those forward-looking statements. Furthermore, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A failure by any of our colleges to comply with extensive federal and state regulations could have a material adverse impact on its ability to operate and grow. We derived approximately 93% of our 2005 net revenue from federal and state grants and loans. Participation in the federal and state grant and loan programs subject Interboro, TCI and PSB to frequent reviews and detailed oversight. Each of our colleges must comply with complex laws and regulations, including with respect to its accreditation, operations, growth and change of its or EVCI's corporate structure. The regulations, standards and policies of the regulatory agencies frequently change and are subject to political and other pressures. We believe that, in addition to Interboro's rapid growth, the resulting increase in its share of TAP funds, was a significant factor in SED's decision to issue the Draft Report and then place enrollment caps on Interboro's new student enrollment. We also believe that, SED's decision was motivated by concerns about the ability of Interboro ATB students to persist and graduate at percentage rates deemed appropriate by SED even though Interboro's graduation rates significantly exceed the average three year graduation rates for African American and Hispanic minority students at other associate degree colleges in New York State and nationwide. As is clear from Interboro's recent experiences with SED, an alleged failure to comply with existing or new requirements resulting from changes in standards or new interpretations has already and, in the future, could materially and adversely affect EVCI. Some of the specific significant regulatory risks are described in risk factors below. Adverse changes in the rules governing, or the amount or timing of, TAP disbursements could materially impede Interboro's and TCI's ability to operate. There could be changes in TAP statutes that deny or decrease the amount of TAP grants by various means that include changing eligibility requirements or by requiring Interboro and TCI to materially increase their administrative costs and practices relating to TAP. Those changes could have a material adverse impact on our revenue, margins and ability to continue in business using our current business models. 18 The executive and legislative debate each year over the New York State budget usually includes controversy over TAP. We cannot predict what will happen each budget year because the issues relating to TAP are highly political in nature. New York's Governor Pataki has been proposing to change TAP requirements for the past few years in a manner that would be materially adverse to us. However, the actual changes made by the New York State Legislature in the past few years have not been materially adverse to Interboro or TCI. As of March 30, 2006, the Legislature had voted on accepting, rejecting or modifying the Governor's proposals and forwarded them to the Governor. The Governor can accept or veto amendments to his proposed budget. The budget must ultimately be approved by the Legislature. In summary, the Governor's 2006-2007 budget proposals and the Legislature's counterproposals are as follows: o Post-secondary institutions would "pre-finance" TAP awards provided to first-time TAP applicants who are admitted without a high school diploma. TAP would reimburse a student, plus interest, only after the student successfully completed 24 credit hours. This particularly targets ATB and GED students. Status: Rejected by the Legislature. Colleges admitting ATB students would have to use an "independently administered and evaluated ATB test" as defined by the Commissioner of Education. Interboro already outsources its ATB testing. o TAP's eligibility requirement of "full-time study" would be raised from 12 to 15 credits per semester to "ensure students complete their degree programs before exhausting their 8 semesters of TAP eligibility." Partial awards of 80% would, however, be available to students registered for 12 - 14 credits. Status: Rejected by the Legislature. o Higher performance standards would be imposed to demonstrate progress toward completion, including accrued credits and minimum grade point averages. Status: Rejected by the Legislature. o Students who default on federal and other educational loans would not receive TAP. Status: Rejected by the Legislature. o TAP eligibility for "accelerated study" (three consecutive semesters) would be restricted to individuals who have obtained 30 credit hours in the preceding two semesters. Status: Amended by the Legislature to reduce the 30 credit requirement to 24 credits, effective for students first entering college after July 1, 2006. Students at TCI and Interboro would be affected by this requirement. In addition, budgetary issues have caused delays in TAP disbursements. TAP payments relating to Interboro's and TCI's spring semesters that would otherwise be made during the period from the last week of December through May were, or are being, deferred: 19 o In December 2004, TAP advised that a total of approximately $3.8 million of payments payable for Interboro's and TCI's spring 2005 semesters would be deferred until August 1, 2005. This deferral turned out to be less, as Interboro and TCI received the following approximate payments of their deferred amounts: Interboro TCI --------- --- March $1,100,000 $430,000 June $1,200,000 280,000 July 400,000 390,000 o In December 2005, TAP advised that a total of approximately $3.8 million of payments payable for Interboro's and TCI's spring 2006 semester is being deferred until August 1, 2006. Approximately $2.5 million of these deferrals was paid on March 31, 2006. Whether or not any portion of the remainder of these deferrals are paid earlier depends, in part, on the state's cash flow situation throughout the state fiscal year. Additional total payments of approximately $2.3 million for Interboro's and TCI's spring semester will be deferred until October 2006 under TAP regulations relating to TAP payments for a third term within the same academic year. This deferral is not related to the New York State budget. Past TAP deferrals have not adversely affected our ability to operate or grow. We could be mistaken in our belief that the current deferrals will not adversely affect our ability to operate or our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants of our bank agreement. Furthermore, future deferrals could adversely affect our operations and growth. We do not expect that Interboro or EVCI will be profitable in 2006. As a result of the SED caps on Interboro's enrollment, we currently anticipate that Interboro's net revenue for 2006 will decline by more than 20% as compared to its 2005 net revenue. After giving effect to anticipated results of TCI and PSB and additional Interboro capital and operating costs necessary to comply with SED directives, we are currently projecting that EVCI will incur a net loss in 2006 of approximately $2.3 million and will have negative cash flow of approximately $2.3 million. Approximately $700,000 of this projected net loss relates to the amendment of our bank credit agreement, including approximately $450,000 of accelerated amortization of deferred financing costs. Notwithstanding, we are currently projecting that EVCI will have sufficient cash resources to fund this net loss and negative cash flow. Our results might be materially worse than projected, including because Interboro's enrollments are below the permitted caps, as happened in the spring 2006 semester, Interboro's costs of implementing directives are higher than anticipated, or there are unforeseen circumstances. If that occurs, we will need the continued cooperation of our bank and may need to attempt to refinance our bank debt, raise additional equity capital or sell or close one or more of our colleges under circumstances that could be materially adverse to EVCI. 20 Interboro may be subject to even more severe action by SED if it is not able to achieve the 65% persistence rate required by SED or to implement other required changes at Interboro to SED's satisfaction. SED is requiring that Interboro limit the number of new enrollments it may accept for its spring 2006 through spring 2007 semesters. These caps are tied to an SED expectation that at least 65% of Interboro students who are first enrolled at Interboro for either its spring 2006 or summer 2006 semesters will persist to their second semester of attendance at Interboro. While Interboro has implemented strategies that it believes will permit it to achieve the 65% rate, its past persistence rates are an indication of the very significant challenge facing the college. The number of new students (after at least three weeks of the semester) for Interboro's spring, summer and fall 2005 semesters were approximately 1,650, 1,250 and 1,950 respectively. Approximately 42% of new Interboro students who started in the spring 2005 semester persisted to a second semester. Persistence rates for new students who start at Interboro in the fall semester have been generally greater than new students who start in a spring or summer semester. For example, approximately 50% of Interboro's new students in the fall 2004 semester persisted to the spring 2005 semester. Furthermore, adverse publicity about Interboro could significantly impede Interboro's efforts to retain students and attract new students. SED plans to conduct visits to Interboro's sites in the spring and summer 2006 to assess its progress in implementing the requirements and recommendations set forth in SED's report dated December 2, 2005, reaching the 65% persistence rate, limiting enrollments as required by the enrollment caps and outsourcing ATB testing. Afterward, SED may determine that adjustments to the restrictions may be appropriate. SED has advised it will determine what continued enrollment restrictions are necessary, if any, during Interboro's spring 2007 semester. If SED is not satisfied with Interboro's progress it could seek to require Interboro to close or impose requirements and limitations that would make it more difficult for Interboro to return to profitability or that would limit its profitability. Adverse changes in the rules governing, or the amount or timing of, Pell program disbursements could materially impede our college's ability to operate. Title IV must be reauthorized by congress every six years. Parts of the Act were reauthorized in 2005; however, remaining issues are currently being reviewed by Congress. Congress also reviews appropriations for Title IV programs annually. Congress has not increased the maximum Pell award for several years and is not expected to do so for the coming fiscal year. Any significant decreases in the amount or timing of revenue received through the Pell program would have a material adverse effect on our colleges. Additionally, legislative or regulatory actions may materially increase our colleges' administrative costs and require them to modify their practices in a material adverse manner. 21 Title IV program reviews of any EVCI college could result in it being required to make material refunds of Title IV funds and EVCI being required to reduce its operating income by the amount of those refunds. Schools participating in Title IV programs are routinely reviewed by DOE personnel to determine their compliance with Title IV regulations. Since January 2005, a routine program review has been conducted by the DOE of Interboro's compliance with respect to approximately $30 million of Title IV grants made to Interboro students during Interboro's academic years 2002/ 2003, 2003/ 2004 and 2004/ 2005. On March 28, 2005, the U.S. Department of Education conducted an additional day of file review. Based upon discussions at that time with representatives of the DOE, we believed that the Title IV reviewers were going to review more files before submitting a draft report to us. As of March 17, 2006 the DOE had not requested more files. Accordingly, we cannot predict with certainty whether the DOE will ask for additional files or, if it does, the extent of the DOE's further review. We also cannot predict when we will receive the reviewer's draft written report or the timing and amount of Title IV refunds, if any, Interboro will be required to make to the DOE. Furthermore, we do not know whether the compliance review by SED will trigger an additional review by the DOE. TCI's last Title IV program review began in 1999 and has not formally concluded. However, TCI has been advised orally by the DOE that the program review will be closed shortly without any liability to TCI. We cannot predict when another Title IV program review will occur or what effect it will have on our results of operations and liquidity or on our ability to operate and grow. A future TAP audit could result in Interboro or TCI being required to make material refunds of TAP grants and EVCI being required to reduce its operating income by the full amount of those refunds. The Office of the New York State Comptroller periodically conducts routine audits of colleges and universities that participate in TAP. The principle purpose of an audit is to determine whether a college complies with rules and regulations in certifying the TAP eligibility of its students. In March 2005, Interboro received the final report from the Comptroller that details the reasons for disallowances of $903,150 resulting from the TAP audit commenced in February 2004 of Interboro's three academic years ended June 30, 2001, 2002 and 2003. The total amount of TAP grants made to Interboro students during the period covered by the TAP audit was approximately $21,000,000. TCI's last TAP audit covered three academic years ended June 30, 2000, 2001 and 2002, started in June 2003, concluded in March 2004 and required TCI to pay disallowances of $19,554. The total amount of TAP grants made to TCI students during the period covered by the TAP audit was approximately $39,000,000. 22 We believe that there is a correlation between the amount and rate of a school's growth and the likelihood of a TAP audit. Furthermore, the likelihood of a TAP audit of Interboro and TCI may have increased as a result of the Draft Report to Interboro. Even though HESC has publicly stated that a routine TAP audit is normally scheduled every three to four years, we cannot predict when another TAP audit will occur. We also cannot predict what affect a future TAP audit will have on our results of operations and liquidity or on our ability to operate and grow. Changes in Ability to Benefit regulations could materially and adversely affect Interboro's and TCI's ability to operate and grow. ATB students comprise approximately 94% of Interboro's current enrollment and approximately 34% of TCI's current enrollment. They are students who entered Interboro or TCI without a high school diploma or a GED because they achieved a minimum score, or a higher score set by the college, on a test approved by the DOE that demonstrates that they have the "ability to benefit" from a college's program of study. There is a long-standing debate over the extent to which taxpayer money should be spent educating ATB students. It is a politically charged issue that most greatly affects African-American and Hispanic students dealing with the challenges endemic to poverty. Governor Pataki's budget proposal to require colleges to finance student tuition until 24 credits have been earned by the student specifically targets ATB students. If that specific proposal passes and is in the final budget, or if other current laws governing TAP were to be changed to materially limit Interboro's and TCI's ability to enroll ATB students or the availability of financial aid to ATB students, Interboro and TCI may not be able to continue in business unless they are able to quickly convert their business models to accommodate any material change. Even if Interboro and TCI were successful, in the interim EVCI's financial condition and results of operations would, most likely, be materially and adversely affected. TCI's plans to recruit more high school graduates, so that it is less dependent on ATB students, may not be successful. Our failure to repay amounts outstanding under our amended and restated credit agreement when due could have a materially adverse effect on our business and financial position. Under our amended and restated credit agreement ($15,000,000 million outstanding at December 31, 2005), we are required to pay interest monthly and to make quarterly principal payments that increase from $500,000 to $625,000 until July 31, 2007 when all accrued and unpaid interest and principal of $10,375,000 are due and payable. If we default under the agreement, this due date could be accelerated by the bank. We presently intend to seek to refinance the principal balance due prior to its final maturity date. We also intend to pursue other strategies that could provide us with funds to pay this debt, including the sale of equity or the sale of one or more of our schools. However, we may not succeed in the securing additional financing needed to repay our bank debt. 23 Over the longer term, we expect enrollments at, and earnings of, our colleges to grow at a much slower rate than they have since we acquired Interboro. Interboro's aggressive growth has attracted significant attention and has resulted in higher regulatory scrutiny and media coverage, all of which has had a material adverse affect on EVCI and its stock price. Interboro's compounded annual growth rate of enrollments through 2005 of approximately 42% since it was acquired by EVCI in January 2000, substantially exceeds industry averages. This fact and the fact that approximately 92% of Interboro's student population is comprised of ATB students greatly increased Interboro's visibility, not only in its target market, but also to regulators and the media. Higher visibility translates into greater scrutiny, especially in view of the recent overabundance of adverse publicity concerning public companies owning for profit-career colleges. Greater scrutiny increases the likelihood that regulators will seek to limit a college's growth. It also increases the likelihood that the media may seek to discredit a college's business model and conduct of its business, as has been the case with the Draft Report and ensuing events. Accordingly, subject to contractions in enrollments at Interboro while SED enrollment caps remain, we expect to limit the aggregate internal growth of enrollments at our colleges to rates that are more in line with the average internal growth rates at colleges owned by public companies. We believe that is currently between 10% to 15% per year. However, this expectation does not in any way constitute guidance for any period. If Interboro is unable to improve its persistence and graduation rates to levels SED deems acceptable, the Board of Regents may deny or adversely condition Interboro's reaccredidation. If Interboro does not succeed in reaching a 25% graduation rate for students attending Interboro for three years, the New York Board of Regents could deny or onerously condition Interboro's reaccredidation in September 2008. In addition, SED could continue to limit significantly Interboro's growth throughout the period prior to reaccredidation because it believes Interboro is not effectively implementing improvements or that the improvements, even if implemented, cannot accomplish what SED deems necessary. One or more of these risks could occur even though we believe there are no specific requirements in the governing law or regulations that Interboro achieve a 25% graduation rate. However, we believe the following is a legal requirement: A college awarding an associate degree that has a graduation rate below the mean associate degree graduation rate reported by all colleges in New York State accredited by SED, o must show an improvement over the preceding year of at least 3% or 24 o must prepare and submit a plan to improve graduation rates that includes strategies and time lines to achieve at least the mean, or a 3% annual improvement within two years. Interboro will not be able to continue to operate if the Board of Regents does not renew Interboro's accreditation when it expires and if Interboro is unable to obtain accreditation from another accrediting agency before then that is acceptable to the U.S. and New York State Departments of Education. Interboro will also not be able to operate if the Board of Regents decides to revoke Interboro's accreditation before reaccreditation in 2008 and force execution of teach out plans. In an attempt to ameliorate this risk, while enhancing Interboro's national reputation, Interboro is applying for national accreditation by the Accrediting Council of Independent Colleges and Schools. However, the approval of its application is not assured. If SED continues to deny Interboro's Yonkers site extension center status for a protracted period of time, Interboro's ability to continue operations in Yonkers could be materially and adversely affected. SED has required Interboro to limit enrollment at its Yonkers site to substantially less than its current enrollment of approximately 165 students by not accepting new students. The Yonkers site may continue to serve its continuing students. If Yonkers is never approved as an extension center, it would eventually be limited to enrolling approximately 35 students. That level of enrollment would force Interboro to close the site unless it could implement strategies to reduce or absorb (by using the site for administrative or other purposes) its fixed costs of operating the site. The capital and operating costs of implementing agreements with SED, in response to SED's recommendations, could significantly exceed the estimates we have made to date. SED could require Interboro to make further changes to Interboro's operations beyond those Interboro has agreed to in its response to the Draft Report. Furthermore, we could be wrong in our current estimates because of unanticipated costs. In either event, the costs to Interboro of complying with the final SED report could significantly exceed the $400,000 of capital costs during the next 12 months and $1,000,000 of additional operating costs for 2006 that we have estimated thus far. Our margins may continue to erode if the maximum federal and state grants and loans do not increase over time. As we have grown, we have, until recently, been able to improve our margins through economies of scale and other operating efficiencies. As a result of Interboro new student enrollment caps through the spring 2007 semester, increases in costs at Interboro and TCI's higher cost structure, EVCI's margins are expected to be significantly lower (and negative in 2006) for the foreseeable future. Approximately 93% of Interboro's net revenue, and 62% of TCI's net revenue, consisted of TAP and Pell grants in 2005. The maximum Pell award per semester has risen from $1,150 for the academic year 1994/ 1995 to its current level of $2,025. Since academic year 2000/ 2001, the maximum semester Pell award has been: 25 2000/ 2001 $1,650 2001/ 2002 1,875 2002/ 2003 2,000 2003/ 2004 2,025 2004/ 2005 2,025 2005/2006 2,025 The maximum TAP award per semester has been $2,500 since April 2000 and was $2,062 from 1994 through April 2000. Interboro's tuition is set at a level that permits approximately 85% of its students to pay their full tuition, fees and book costs out of their Pell and TAP grants. A TCI first-time student can pay approximately 85% of the student's tuition, fees and books with full TAP and Pell awards. If the maximum available Pell and TAP grants do not continue to exceed Interboro's tuition and fees, Interboro's margins would erode further unless the gap is covered by participating in Title IV loan programs. Since we acquired Interboro, the college has avoided participating in any Title IV loan programs because it did not want to risk losing eligibility to participate in the Pell grant program as a result of its students exceeding permissible Title IV loan repayment default rates. If TCI's cost structure requires additional increases in its tuition without a concurrent and similar dollar amount increases in Pell and TAP grant amounts, its margins will erode unless its students obtain larger Title IV loans. As a result, TCI's Title IV loan default rate may increase, or its competitive position to attract students be diminished. The seasonality of our enrollments produces significant variations in our results from quarter to quarter. Our revenue varies seasonally as a result of changes in student enrollment. Total student enrollment and net revenue are typically highest in our fourth and first quarters, which include October through March. As a result, our second and third quarters have not been profitable prior to our 2003 third quarter in which we had net income of $79,000. In 2004, we lost $585,000 in our second quarter and $1,180,000 in our third quarter. In 2005, we had a profit of $320,000 in our second quarter and a loss of $1,493,000 in our third quarter. Furthermore, while for a full fiscal year, changes in enrollments directly relate to changes in revenue, enrollments for academic semesters do not have the same direct relationship to revenues for any particular fiscal quarter. Our schools' semesters are 15 weeks long and revenue per semester is, therefore, reported over two quarters. 26 If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital when we may need it most could be adversely affected. Nasdaq rules require us to maintain a minimum closing bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share. If our common stock trades for 30 consecutive business days below the applicable minimum closing bid price requirement, Nasdaq will send a deficiency notice to us, advising that we have 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the minimum bid price. We must then maintain compliance for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Under certain circumstances, Nasdaq may require maintenance of a $1.00 minimum bid price for more than 10 days. Thereafter, we can receive an additional 180-day compliance period if we meet all initial inclusion requirements for the Nasdaq Capital Market, except for the bid price requirement. If we do not demonstrate compliance within the requisite compliance period, we will be issued a delisting letter, which we may appeal at that time. If our common stock is delisted from Nasdaq, trading would thereafter be conducted in the over-the-counter market on the "electronic bulletin board" or in the "pink sheets." As a consequence: o the liquidity of our common stock would be impaired, not only in the number of shares that could be bought and sold and lower prices for them, but also through delays in the timing of transactions and reduction in security analysts' and the news media's coverage of us. o these trading factors would also make our common stock materially less attractive to potential sources of financing that we may require in connection with a refinancing or repayment of our bank debt. Actual or threatened legal proceedings against us or any of our colleges by regulatory agencies or private parties could have a material adverse effect on our business. Pending lawsuits resulting from the Draft Report and ensuing events are described in this report under the caption "Legal Proceedings." From time to time, we may be subject to investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or other third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions, loss of financial aid eligibility, or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues. This could also materially hurt our business. 27 The loss of the services of key management personnel of EVCI or Interboro, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and growth. The efforts of Dr. Arol I. Buntzman, chairman of EVCI and chairman and chancellor of Interboro, and Dr. John J. McGrath, chief executive officer and president of EVCI, chief executive officer and vice chairman of Interboro and co-chairman of TCI, and chief executive officer and president of PSB, are essential to our operations and growth. The loss of the services of Drs. Buntzman or McGrath would materially adversely affect us. We maintain insurance for EVCI's benefit on the life of Dr. Buntzman in the amount of $2.0 million and on the life of Dr. McGrath in the amount of $750,000. We plan to obtain additional insurance on the life of Dr. McGrath. We have an employment agreement with Dr. Buntzman expiring December 31, 2007 and an employment agreement with Dr. McGrath expiring December 31, 2008. Our business and results could materially suffer if we improperly balance or divert resources from our operations to making acquisitions or if we make acquisitions that do not meet our expectations. In the future, when our financial and other resources permit, we expect to seek additional acquisitions, especially accredited colleges. We may choose not to purchase a college after we conduct our due diligence and negotiate terms. Our acquisition of TCI took more than a year to complete as a result of protracted negotiations and due diligence. From this and other experiences, we know that it takes significant time and resources to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates. In retrospect, we may find that the expenditure of time, money and other resources may have been better made to manage existing operations. Furthermore, the quarter in which we decide not to complete an acquisition will be adversely impacted by the expenses incurred on the acquisition. Whereas, if an acquisition is completed, the acquisition expenses are capitalized and become part of the purchase price. If we do make acquisitions, potential hurdles to our successfully integrating the acquisition include: o an inability to increase enrollments, particularly if the college has had declining enrollments o possible loss of key employees o an inability to integrate the acquisition because of differences in vision, management style, work ethic or other causes o difficulties in integrating academic, administrative and financial systems, including technology of the acquired company with ours o diversion of our management resources or otherwise stretching our resources too thin 28 o adverse effects on our operating results as a result of lower operating margins of the acquired company o unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities o an inability to fund operations of the acquired company o breaches of representations or warranties by the seller of the acquired company for which we do not have adequate recourse o underestimation of capital needs o failure to develop or implement a viable business plan, including with respect to managing Title IV loans that are needed to support tuition o an inability to continue a school's participation in financial aid programs as a result of regulatory change in control provisions o an inability to effectively deal with unions o difficulties in maintaining accreditation and program registration The acquisition of PSB had an adverse effect on our 2005 operating results because of delays and expenses incurred in relocating PSB and obtaining new enrollments at its new location. The impact of unionization of Interboro's faculty is not known. Negotiations are underway with Local 153 of the Office and Professional Employees International Union of a contract covering Interboro's full-time and part-time faculty. The contract with Local 153 covering Interboro's full-time administrative employees expires August 31, 2006. Accordingly, the incremental labor cost to Interboro resulting from unionizing Interboro's faculty and renegotiating the union contract with Interboro's full-time administrative staff is uncertain. If Interboro is unable to conclude contracts that it believes allow it to cost-effectively and efficiently operate Interboro, then Local 153 may call a strike or a work slow down. A strike or slow down could materially impact Interboro's ability to recruit and service its students while it continues and, potentially, for a period after a strike or slow down ends. A protracted strike or slow down would have a material adverse effect on Interboro. 29 If the operation of a college's computer system is adversely affected by computer viruses that are not recognized by available anti-virus software, or for any other reason, its ability to operate could be severely impaired. Interboro's computers were inoperable for one week at the beginning of the fall 2004 semester as the result of a virus that could not be stopped initially by existing anti-virus software. While Interboro was able to continue to operate during this period without any material adverse effect, this may not be the case in the future. Furthermore, our computers could be affected by other problems in the future that could adversely affect our operations. Terrorist activity, or the threat of it, in the New York Metropolitan area could adversely affect Interboro and TCI. All of Interboro's and TCI's sites are located in or near New York City. If New York City is again a target or threatened target of terrorists, Interboro's and TCI's operations, enrollments and retention rates could be adversely impacted. Interboro's inability to foster and maintain relationships with community organizations in the communities where its college sites are located could adversely affect those sites. A college site may require the support of the community-based organizations that serve the minority populace from which the site seeks to recruit and retain economically disadvantaged students. Local politics and rivalries can jeopardize Interboro's relationships with these organizations. Changes in our relationships with community-based organizations or other events beyond Interboro's control might adversely affect the operations and growth of an existing site. A change of control of EVCI could adversely affect our college's receipt of Pell and TAP funds. Under DOE regulations, a change in control includes a stockholder becoming and ceasing to be a controlling stockholder. A controlling stockholder is someone who holds or controls by agreement 25% or more of EVCI's voting stock and more voting stock than any other EVCI stockholder. Under the DOE definitions, EVCI does not now have a controlling stockholder. Under TAP regulations, a change of control includes the transfer of controlling interest in EVCI. A significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock may be beyond our control. After a change of control, our cash flow could be adversely affected by the withholding of significant portions of grant funds until the change of control is reaffirmed, if at all. A change of control could take several months. If not reaffirmed, our colleges would lose their ability to participate in the Pell, TAP and PHEAA programs and would not be able to continue operating. Future changes in ownership of our common stock could substantially limit the utilization of our net operating loss carryforwards. Complex regulations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code govern the determination of whether one or more changes of ownership of EVCI's common stock will result in limitations on EVCI's ability to offset taxable income against its approximately $21.5 million of available net operating loss carryforwards. Sales of EVCI's common stock by EVCI and persons defined as 5% holders under Section 382 regulations must be monitored by us so we can determine whether ownership changes have occurred that result in limitations on our net operating losses (NOL) utilization. We have no control over sales by 5% holders. Our effective cost of raising capital may be affected by these regulations. 30 Actual or potential future sales of shares of our common stock by management could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock from time to time by management may cause the marketplace to think the seller is not confident about our prospects. This may be so even if the reason is otherwise and is stated publicly. A rise of our stock price increases the likelihood that directors and officers will sell shares of our common stock. Our share price has ranged greatly since we went public and may be very volatile in the future. Since our public offering in February 1999, the market price of our common stock has ranged between $0.26 and $40.94. Our share price rose to a high of $11.05 the day of our press release reporting our 2004 preliminary results and subsequently declined to $7.70 within a week after our press release reporting our spring 2005 record enrollment growth. Following our announcement, on October 19, 2005, of our receipt of the Draft Report and an ongoing internal investigation, our stock price declined from $5.53 to $2.45 by October 20, 2005. Our share price also could be affected by a number of other factors, including: o exceeding or not meeting expectations for our semester enrollment numbers and our quarterly or yearly operating results o regulatory developments that affect our cash flow or ability to open or expand sites o an ongoing Pell program review or a TAP audit o allegations, even if untrue, that a college failed to comply with regulations relating to TAP or Title IV, its accreditation by the Board of Regents or corporate compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley or other securities laws o exceeding or not meeting expectations for our semester enrollment numbers and our quarterly or yearly operating results o trading by investors that are more interested in quarterly versus long-term results o changes in securities analysts' expectations as to our future performance o adverse media coverage of our colleges or other for profit-schools owned by public companies o increased competition in our target market 31 o the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies, including as a result of fraud allegations or Congressional investigations relating to their operations o general stock market or economic conditions, including as a result of uncertainty about, or the occurrence of, war or terrorism o sales of our stock by our management or others pursuant to a prospectus or otherwise o acquisitions of other colleges o additional financings Furthermore, the stock market in general has experienced volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock regardless of our actual operating performance. Provisions of laws or regulations, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and agreements with our executive officers could discourage takeover attempts and other investments in our common stock. We are subject to a provision of Delaware law that prohibits a party that has acquired 15% or more of our common stock, without our board's approval, from causing a business combination (as defined) involving EVCI or its subsidiaries unless approved by our board and two-thirds of our common stock held by our other stockholders. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership of EVCI's common stock resulting in a change of control could discourage bids for our outstanding shares at a premium or otherwise. The effects of the classified board provisions of our certificate of incorporation are explained in the next risk factor. Our by-laws prohibit stockholders from calling, or proposing any business at, a special meeting of stockholders. Our by-laws also require a stockholder to give us substantial advance notice of any business to be proposed by the stockholder at an annual meeting, including nominees for election as directors. In addition, we have change of control agreements with each of our chairman, chief executive officer and president, general counsel, and chief financial officer that require substantial payments to them in the event their employment is terminated, except for cause, following a change of control of EVCI. These provisions are intended to encourage persons seeking control of EVCI to engage in negotiations with our board rather than initiate a hostile takeover. They could also have the effect of entrenching management that resists an acquisition a majority of our stockholders might think is good. Accordingly, they could also limit the price that other investors might be willing to pay for our common stock because they believe our management can defeat a takeover of us that could be beneficial to non-management stockholders. 32 Our classified board limits stockholder voting for election and removal of directors. Our board of directors is divided into three classes. The directors in each class are elected for three-year terms when their class stands for election at a stockholders meeting. This staggering of director terms protects directors from being removed from office by anyone engaged in a proxy contest for control of the board and dilutes the ability of stockholders to influence corporate governance policies. Furthermore, our directors can only be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of 66 2/3% of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors. The effect of these provisions is to make it difficult for any stockholder to take control of our board of directors in a proxy contest that is not waged with respect to two of our annual stockholder meetings. Indemnification and limitation of liability of our officers and directors may insulate them from accountability to stockholders at substantial cost to us. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions whereby our officers and directors are to be indemnified against liabilities to the fullest extent permissible under Delaware law. Our certificate of incorporation also limits a director's liability for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty, including gross negligence. In addition, we have agreed to advance the legal expenses of our officers and directors who are required to defend against claims. These provisions and agreements may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of suits against directors and officers even though such suits, if successful, might benefit EVCI and its stockholders. Furthermore, we may be adversely affected by paying the cost of settlement and damage awards against directors and officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 33 