Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following disclosure of risk factors includes all material risks known to us at this time. Additional risks we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may prove to impair our business and financial performance. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks, whether stated or unstated. We operate in a continually changing business environment and may as a result enter into new businesses and product lines. We cannot predict new risk factors that may arise in the future, and we cannot assess the impact, if any, of these new risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, you should not rely on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, our estimates of future operating results are based on our current complement of businesses, which is subject to change as we continue to assess and refine our business strategy. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected in a material manner. 5 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred significant operating losses since inception and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow from operations since our inception in December 1997 and we currently have an accumulated deficit. Our ability to continue as a going concern is ultimately dependent on our ability to increase sales to a level that will allow us to operate profitably and sustain positive operating cash flows. Although we are continuing our efforts to improve profitability through expansion of our business in both current and new markets, we must overcome marketing hurdles, including gaining market acceptance, in order to sell large quantities of our products and services. In addition, we may be required to reduce the prices of our products in order to increase sales. If we reduce prices, we may not be able to reduce costs sufficiently to achieve acceptable profit margins. As we strive to grow our business, we have spent and expect to continue to spend significant funds (1) for general corporate purposes, including working capital, marketing, recruiting and hiring additional personnel; and (2) for research and development. To the extent that our revenues do not increase as quickly as these costs and expenditures, our results of operations and liquidity will be materially adversely affected. If we experience slower than anticipated revenue growth or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not achieve profitability. Even if we achieve profitability in the future, we may not be able to sustain it. Failure to effectively market our energy management products and services could impair our ability to sell significant quantities of these products and services. We operate in competitive markets. One of the challenges we face in commercializing our energy management products and services is demonstrating the advantages of our products and services over competitive products and services. To do this, we will need to further develop our marketing and sales force. If we do not successfully develop and expand our internal sales force, we may not be able to generate significant revenues. If our products and services do not achieve or sustain market acceptance, our ability to compete will be adversely affected. To date, we have not sold our eMAC product line in very large quantities and a sufficient market may not develop for it. Significant marketing will be required in order to establish a sufficient market for these products. The technology underlying our products may not become or remain a preferred technology to address the energy management needs of our customers and potential customers. Failure to successfully develop, manufacture and commercialize products on a timely and cost-effective basis will have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the energy management market or survive as a business. The failure to effectively maintain and upgrade our proprietary products could adversely affect our business. A recent effort to upgrade the eMAC technology has taken significantly longer and cost more than initially anticipated. This delay has adversely affected eMAC sales, resulting in significant losses at MPG which contributed to the impairment of its goodwill. The situation has also diverted a significant amount of management’s attention from the operation of our other businesses. While we have taken steps to address the situation, if they prove ineffective we may continue to experience losses and a drain on our management and cash resources. Maintenance of proprietary technology will be an ongoing issue that we must effectively handle without impacting sales and profitability. 6 Table of Contents Failure to replace a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have historically derived a significant portion of our annual revenue from a limited number of customers. Seldom has any one customer represented 10% or more of our revenues for more than one year in a row. This requires that we continually replace major customers, whose needs we have satisfied, with one or more new customers. The failure to replace a major customer could have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We believe that as a result of recent acquisitions we will experience an increased diversification of our customer base, reducing the amount of our revenue associated with several large customers, but this remains to be seen. We expect our quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate. If we fail to meet the expectations of market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could become subject to securities litigation. Our business is seasonal and can be affected by cyclical factors outside of our control. Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely vary from quarter to quarter in the future. You should not rely upon the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. Our revenue and operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts or investors in some future quarter or quarters. Our failure to meet these expectations could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. If the price of our common stock falls significantly we may be the target of securities litigation. If we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs, management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, and our reputation could be damaged, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. A decrease in electric retail rates could lessen demand for our products. Our products and services have the greatest sales and profit potential in areas where commercial electric rates are relatively high. However, retail electric rates for commercial establishments in the United States may not remain at their current levels. Due to a potential overbuilding of power generating stations in certain regions of the United States, wholesale power prices may decrease in the future. Because the price of commercial retail electric power is largely attributed to the wholesale cost of power, it is reasonable to expect that commercial retail rates may decrease as well. In addition, much of the wholesale cost of power is directly related to the price of certain fuels, such as natural gas, oil and coal. If the prices of those fuels decrease, the prices of the wholesale cost of power may also decrease. This could result in lower electric retail rates and reduced demand for our energy saving products and services. If we are not able to protect our intellectual property rights against infringement, or if others obtain intellectual property rights relating to energy management technology, we could lose our competitive advantage in the energy management market. We regard our intellectual property rights, such as patents, licenses of patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, as somewhat important to our success. Although we have entered into confidentiality and rights to inventions agreements with our employees and consultants, the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property rights or we may not be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Failure to take appropriate protective steps could materially adversely affect any competitive advantage we may have in the energy management market. In addition, patents held by third parties may limit our ability to manufacture, sell or otherwise commercialize products and could result in the assertion of claims of patent infringement against us. If that were to 7 Table of Contents happen, we could try to modify our products to be non-infringing, but we might not be successful or such modifications might not avoid infringing on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Claims of patent infringement against us, regardless of merit, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources by us. We could be forced to seek to enter into license agreements with third parties to resolve claims of infringement by our products of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to obtain such licenses on acceptable terms could have a negative effect on our business. If we are unable to achieve or manage our growth, it will adversely affect our business, the quality of our products and services, and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we succeed in growing our sales as we need to do, we will be subject to the risks inherent in the expansion and growth of a business enterprise. Growth in our business will place a strain on our operational and administrative resources and increase the level of responsibility for our existing and new management personnel. To manage our growth effectively, we will need to: • further develop and improve our operating, information, accounting, financial and other internal systems and controls on a timely basis; • improve our business development, marketing and sales capabilities; and • expand, train, motivate and manage our employee base. Our systems currently in place may not be adequate if we grow and may need to be modified and enhanced. The skills of management currently in place may not be adequate if we experience significant growth. If our management fails to properly identify companies to acquire and to effectively negotiate the terms of these acquisition transactions, our growth may be impaired. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to seek to acquire companies with complementary technologies, products and/or services. Our management, including our board of directors, will have discretion in identifying and selecting companies to be acquired by us and in structuring and negotiating these acquisitions. In general, our common stockholders may not have the opportunity to approve these acquisitions. In addition, in making acquisition decisions, we will rely, in part, on financial projections developed by our management and the management of potential target companies. These projections will be based on assumptions and subjective judgments. The actual operating results of any acquired company or the combination of us and an acquired company may fall significantly short of projections. We may be unable to acquire companies that we identify as targets for various reasons, including: • our inability to interest such companies in a proposed transaction; • our inability to agree on the terms of an acquisition; • incompatibility between our management and management of a target company; and • our inability to obtain the approval of the holders of our common stock, if required. If we cannot consummate acquisitions on a timely basis or agree on terms at all, or if we cannot acquire companies with complementary technologies, products and/or services on terms acceptable to us, our future growth may be impaired. 8 Table of Contents Our growth may be impaired and our current business may suffer if we do not successfully address risks associated with acquisitions. Since January 1, 2000, we have acquired seven companies, two of which we subsequently sold at a loss and one of which performed below expectation necessitating a write-off of the associated goodwill. Our future growth may depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully identify, acquire and operate other complementary businesses. We may encounter problems associated with such acquisitions, including the following: • difficulties in integrating acquired operations and products with our existing operations and products; • difficulties in meeting operating expectations for acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • adverse impact on earnings of amortization or write-offs of goodwill and other intangible assets relating to acquisitions; and • issuances of equity securities that may be dilutive to existing stockholders to pay for acquisitions. In addition, often an acquired company’s performance is largely dependent on a few key people, particularly in smaller companies. If these key people leave the company, become less focused on the business or less motivated to make the business successful after the acquisition, the performance of the acquired company may suffer. If sufficient additional funding is not available to us, the commercialization of our products and services and our ability to grow is likely to be hindered. Our operations have not generated positive cash flow since the inception of the Company in 1997. We have funded our operations through the issuance of common and preferred stock and secured debt. Our ability to continue to operate until our cash flow turns positive may depend on our ability to continue to raise funds through the issuance of equity or debt. If we are not successful in raising additional funds, we might have to significantly scale back or delay our growth plans, sell or shut down some of our businesses or possibly cease operations altogether. Any reduction or delay in our growth plans could materially adversely affect our ability to compete in the marketplace, take advantage of business opportunities and develop or enhance our products and services. If we should have to cease operations altogether, our stockholders’ investment is likely to be lost. Raising additional capital or consummation of additional acquisitions through the issuance of equity or equity-linked securities could dilute your ownership interest in us. We may find it necessary to raise capital again some time in the future. If we raise additional funds in the future through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience dilution of their present equity ownership position and voting rights. Depending on the number of shares issued and the terms and conditions of the issuance, new equity securities could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock. Depending on the terms, common stock holders may not have approval rights with respect to such issuances. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 9 Table of Contents 