Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to complete the merger with IESI-BFC could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results. If the merger with IESI-BFC is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected and, without realizing any of the benefits of having completed the merger, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: • we may be required to pay IESI-BFC a termination fee of $11 million plus an amount equal to all out-of-pocket costs up to $3.5 million for expenses incurred by IESI-BFC in connection with the merger if the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; • we will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed; and • matters relating to the merger (including integration planning) may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us as an independent company. We also could be subject to litigation related to the merger or any failure to complete the merger or related to any enforcement proceeding commenced against us to perform our respective obligations under the merger agreement. The price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed and that the related benefits and synergies will be realized, or as a result of the market’s perceptions that the merger was not consummated due to an adverse change in our business. In addition, our business may be harmed, and the price of our stock may decline as a result, to the extent that employees and any third parties remain uncertain about our future prospects in the absence of the merger. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the resulting company and choose to pursue other opportunities that could adversely affect us if the merger is not completed. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel, which could harm our business and results. If the merger is not completed, these risks may materialize and may adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. Our indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions and competitive pressures, limit our ability to borrow additional funds, require us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of cash flow from operations to service debt, and limit our ability to take actions that would increase our revenue and execute our growth strategy As of December 31, 2009, we had total outstanding debt and capital lease obligations of $402.0 million. Our debt is primarily comprised of (i) our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which consist of a revolving credit facility of $124.8 million, which is available to our U.S. operations or our Canadian operations, in U.S. or Canadian dollars, and C$16.3 million, which is available to our Canadian operations; and term loans of $36.9 million to our U.S. operations and C$122.3 million to our Canadian operations; (ii) other secured and unsecured notes payable of $9.0 million and (iii) $210.0 million 91/2% senior subordinated notes due 2014. The revolver commitments under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities terminate on October 8, 2013 and the term loans mature in specified quarterly installments through October 8, 2013. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities are secured by all of our assets, including those of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries, and have the guarantee of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. 9 Table of Contents The amount of our indebtedness owed under the senior secured credit facilities, notes payable and senior subordinated notes may have adverse consequences for us, including making us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions and competitive pressures, limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, requiring us to dedicate or reserve a large portion of cash flow from operations to service debt, limiting our ability to plan for or react to changes in our business and industry and placing us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt in relation to cash flow. The credit facilities contain covenants and restrictions that could limit the manner in which we conduct our operations and could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. Any failure by us to comply with these covenants and restrictions will, unless waived by the lenders, result in an immediate obligation to repay our indebtedness. If such events occurred, we would be required to refinance or obtain capital from other sources, including sales of additional debt or equity or the sale of assets, in order to meet our repayment obligations. We may not be successful in obtaining alternative sources of funding to repay these obligations should events of default occur. Our business is capital intensive and may consume cash in excess of cash flow from our operations and borrowings Our ability to remain competitive, sustain our growth and maintain our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and our access to capital. We intend to fund our cash needs through our operating cash flow and borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. We may require additional equity or debt financing to fund our growth and debt repayment obligations. Additionally, we have provided for our liabilities related to our closure and post-closure obligations. As we undertake acquisitions, expand our operations, and deplete our landfills, our cash expenditures will increase. As a result, working capital levels may decrease and require financing. If we must close a landfill sooner than we currently anticipate, or if we reduce our estimate of a landfill’s remaining available airspace, we may be required to incur such cash expenditures earlier than originally anticipated. Expenditures for closure and post-closure obligations may increase as a result of any federal, state, provincial or local government regulatory action taken to accelerate such expenditures. These factors could substantially increase our cash expenditures and therefore impair our ability to invest in our existing or new facilities and increase our indebtedness. We will need to refinance our existing debt obligations to pay the principal amounts due at maturity. In addition, we may need additional capital to fund future acquisitions and the integration of the businesses that we acquire. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow, we may not be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to pay our debt obligations and capital expenditures or we may not be able to refinance on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may be unable to obtain or maintain the environmental and other permits, licenses and approvals we need to operate our business, which could adversely affect our earnings and cash flow We are subject to significant environmental and land use laws and regulations. To own and operate solid waste facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, we must obtain and maintain licenses or permits, as well as zoning, environmental and other land use approvals. It has become increasingly difficult, costly and time-consuming to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities. The process often takes several years, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements and is resisted by citizen, public interest and other groups. The cost of obtaining permits could be prohibitive. We may not be able to obtain and maintain the permits and approvals needed to own, operate or expand our solid waste facilities. Moreover, the enactment of additional laws and regulations or the more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations could increase the costs associated with our operations. Any of these occurrences could reduce our expected earnings and cash flow. In some markets in which we operate, permitting requirements may be prohibitive and may differ between those required of us and those required of our competitors. Our inability to obtain and maintain permits for solid waste facilities may adversely affect our ability to service our customers and compete in these markets, thereby resulting in reduced operating revenue. 10 Table of Contents In addition, stringent controls on the design, operation, closure and post-closure care of solid waste facilities could require us to undertake investigative or remedial activities, curtail operations, close a facility temporarily or permanently, or modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities at substantial costs resulting in reduced profitability and cash flow. Any failure to maintain the required financial assurance or insurance to support existing or future service contracts may prevent us from meeting our contractual obligations, and we may be unable to bid on new contracts or retain existing contracts resulting in reduced operating revenue and earnings. Municipal solid waste services contracts and permits to operate transfer stations, landfills and recycling facilities typically require us to obtain performance bonds, letters of credit or other means of financial assurance to secure our contractual performance. Such contracts and permits also typically require us to maintain adequate insurance coverage. We carry a broad range of insurance coverage and retain certain insurance exposure that we believe is customary for a company of our size. If our obligations were to exceed our estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We satisfy these financial assurance requirements by providing performance bonds or letters of credit. Our ability to obtain performance bonds or letters of credit is generally dependent on our creditworthiness. Also, the issuance of letters of credit reduces the availability of our revolving credit facilities for other purposes. Our bonding arrangements are generally renewed annually. If we are unable to renew our bonding arrangements on favorable terms or at all or enter into arrangements with new surety providers, we would be unable to meet our existing contractual obligations that require the posting of performance bonds, and we would be unable to bid on new contracts. This would reduce our operating revenue and our earnings. Our acquisition strategy may be unsuccessful if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions and integrate acquired assets or businesses and this subjects us to risks that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Part of our strategy to expand our business and increase our revenue and profitability is to pursue the acquisition of disposal-based and collection assets and businesses. We have identified a number of acquisition candidates, both in the United States and Canada. However, we may not be able to acquire these candidates at prices or on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. We expect to finance future acquisitions through a combination of seller financing, cash from operations, borrowings under our financing facilities or issuing additional equity or debt securities. Furthermore, prior to the time the merger with IESI-BFC is consummated, we are required to obtain approval from IESI-BFC for certain acquisitions. Our ability to execute our acquisition strategy also depends upon other factors, including our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, the successful integration of acquired businesses and our ability to effectively compete in the new markets we enter. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, we may not realize the expected benefits from our acquisition growth strategy, including any expected benefits from the proposed vertical integration of acquired operations and our existing disposal facilities. Our business strategy depends in part upon vertically integrating our operations. If we are unable to permit, expand or renew permits for our existing landfill sites or enter into agreements that provide us with access to landfill sites and acquire, lease or otherwise secure access to transfer stations, this may reduce our profitability and cash flow Our ability to execute our business strategy depends in part on our ability to permit, expand or renew permits for our existing landfills, develop new landfill sites in proximity to our operations, enter into agreements that will give us long-term access to landfill sites in our markets and to acquire, lease or otherwise secure more favorable disposal arrangements. Permits to expand landfills are often not approved until the remaining permitted disposal capacity of a landfill is very low. We may not be able to purchase additional landfill sites, renew the permits for or expand existing landfill sites, negotiate or renegotiate agreements to obtain a long-term advantage for landfill costs or permit or renew permits for transfer stations that allow us to internalize the waste we collect. If we were to exhaust our permitted capacity at our landfills, our ability to expand internally could be limited, and we could be required to cap and close our landfills and dispose of collected waste at more distant landfills or at landfills operated by our competitors or other third parties. Our inability to secure favorable arrangements (through ownership of 11 Table of Contents landfills or otherwise) for the disposal of collected waste would increase our disposal costs and could result in the loss of business to competitors with more favorable disposal options thereby reducing our profitability and cash flow. Changes in legislative or regulatory requirements may cause changes in the landfill site permitting process. These changes could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain or renew landfill permits. Technical design requirements, as approved, may need modification at some future point in time, which could result in higher development and construction costs than projected. Our current estimates of future disposal capacity may change as a result of changes in design requirements prescribed by legislation, construction requirements and changes in the expected waste density over the life of a landfill site. The density of waste used to convert the available airspace at a landfill into tons may be different than estimated because of variations in operating conditions, including waste compaction practices, site design, climate and the nature of the waste. Any exposure to environmental liabilities, to the extent not adequately covered by insurance, could result in significant expenses, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, including debt service, debt reduction and acquisitions We could be held liable for environmental damage at solid waste facilities that we own or operate, including damage to neighboring landowners and residents for contamination of the air, soil, groundwater, surface water and drinking water. Our liability could extend to damage resulting from pre-existing conditions and off-site contamination caused by pollutants or hazardous substances that we or our predecessors arranged to transport, treat or dispose of at other locations. We are also exposed to liability risks from businesses that we acquire because these businesses may have liabilities that we fail or are unable to discover, including noncompliance with environmental laws. Our insurance program may not cover all liabilities associated with environmental cleanup or remediation or compensatory damages, punitive damages, fines, or penalties imposed on us as a result of environmental damage caused by our operations or those of any predecessor. The incurring of liabilities for environmental damages that are not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our liquidity and could result in significant expenses, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, including debt service, debt reduction and acquisitions. Although we operate landfills for non-hazardous commercial, industrial and municipal solid waste, it is possible that third parties may dispose of hazardous waste at our landfills or that we may unknowingly dispose of hazardous waste at our landfills. If this were to happen, we could become liable for remediation costs under applicable regulations and, although we would have a cause of action against any third party responsible for disposing of the hazardous waste, we may be unable to identify or recover against that person. The presence of hazardous waste at our landfills could also negatively affect future permitting processes with governmental authorities. If we become responsible for remediation costs for hazardous waste or if governmental authorities deny or restrict the scope of our future permits, our profitability and operations may be adversely impacted. We face competition from large and small solid waste services companies and may be unable to successfully compete with them, reducing our operating margins The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and require substantial labor and capital resources. We compete with large, national solid waste services companies as well as smaller, regional solid waste services companies. Some of our competitors are better capitalized, have greater name recognition and greater financial, operational and marketing resources than us, or may otherwise be able to provide services at a lower price. We also compete with operators of alternative disposal facilities and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. Public sector operators may have financial advantages over us because of their access to user fees and similar charges as well as to tax revenue. Responding to this competition may result in reduced operating margins. Further, competitive pressures may make our internal growth strategy of improving service and increasing sales penetration difficult or impossible to execute. 12 Table of Contents The termination or non-renewal of existing customer contracts, or the failure to obtain new customer contracts, could result in declining revenue We derive a portion of our revenue from municipal contracts that require competitive bidding by potential service providers. Although we intend to continue to bid on municipal contracts and to re-bid some of our existing municipal contracts, such contracts may not be maintained or won in the future. We may be unable to meet bonding requirements for municipal contracts at a reasonable cost to us or at all. These requirements may limit our ability to bid for some municipal contracts and may favor some of our competitors. If we are unable to compete successfully for municipal contracts because of bonding or other requirements, we may lose important sources of revenue. We also derive a portion of our revenue from non-municipal contracts, which generally have a term of one to five years. Some of these contracts permit our customers to terminate them before the end of the contractual term. Any failure by us to replace revenue from contracts lost through competitive bidding, termination or non-renewal within a reasonable time period could result in a decrease in our operating revenue and our earnings. We depend on third parties for disposal of solid waste and if we cannot maintain disposal arrangements with them we could incur significant costs that would result in reduced operating margins and revenue. We currently deliver a portion of the solid waste we collect to municipally owned disposal facilities and to privately owned or operated disposal facilities. If municipalities increase their disposal rates or if we cannot obtain and maintain disposal arrangements with private owners or operators, we could incur significant additional costs and, if we are not able to pass these cost increases on to our customers because of competitive pressures, or contractual limitations, this could result in reduced operating margins and revenue. Labor unions may attempt to organize our non-unionized employees, which may result in increased operating expenses Some of our employees in Canada have chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with them. Labor unions may make attempts to organize our non-unionized employees. The negotiation of any collective bargaining agreement could divert management’s attention away from other business matters. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, we may have to wait through “cooling-off” periods, which are often followed by union-initiated work stoppages, including strikes. Unfavorable collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages or other labor disputes may result in increased operating expenses and reduced operating revenue. Our operating margins and profitability may be negatively impacted by increased fuel and energy costs and changes in prices for recycled commodities Although fuel and energy costs account for a relatively small portion of our total operating costs, sustained increases in such costs, which we are unable to pass on to our customers because of competitive pressures or contractual limitations, could lower our operating margins and negatively impact our profitability. Our material recovery facilities generate revenue from the sale of recyclable commodities. In an effort to reduce our exposure to commodity price fluctuations on recycled materials, where competitive pressures permit, we charge collection or processing fees for recycling volume collected from our customers. However, sustained declines in the price of recycled commodities, including but not limited to, aluminum, used corrugated cardboard or news print would lower our revenue from such commodities and adversely affect our margins and profitability. Our domestic operations are concentrated in Florida, which may be subject to specific economic conditions that vary from those nationally as well as weather related events that may impact our operations Our domestic operations are concentrated in Florida, which may be subject to specific economic conditions that vary from those nationally and may adversely affect our operating margins and negatively impact our profitability. Additionally, we may be subject to weather related events or conditions that may result in temporary slowdowns or suspension of services or operations, higher labor and operating costs, and/or additional waste streams that could impact or cause our results to differ from those normally expected. 13 Table of Contents The industry in which we operate is seasonal and decreases in revenue during winter months may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly for our Canadian operations Our operating revenue tends to be somewhat lower in the fall and winter months for our Canadian operations, reflecting the lower volume of solid waste generated during those periods. Our first and fourth quarter results typically reflect this seasonality. In addition, particularly harsh weather conditions may result in temporary slowdowns or suspension of certain of our operations or higher labor and operational costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our Canadian operations subject us to currency translation risk, which could cause our results to fluctuate significantly from period to period A portion of our operations is domiciled in Canada. For each reporting period we translate the results of operations and financial condition of our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars. Therefore, the reported results of our operations and financial condition are subject to changes in the exchange relationship between the two currencies. For example, as the Canadian dollar strengthens against the U.S. dollar, revenue is favorably affected and conversely expenses are unfavorably affected. Assets and liabilities of our Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the relevant balance sheet dates, and revenue and expenses of our Canadian operations are translated from Canadian dollars into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Unrealized gains and losses on translation of our Canadian operations into U.S. dollars are reported as a separate component of shareholders’ equity and are included in comprehensive income or loss. Monetary assets and liabilities are re- measured from U.S. dollars into Canadian dollars and then translated into U.S. dollars. The effects of re-measurement are reported currently as a component of net income. Currently, we do not hedge our exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. Changes to patterns regarding disposal of waste could adversely affect our results of operations by reducing the volume of waste available for collection and disposal and thus reducing our earnings Waste reduction programs may reduce the volume of waste available for collection and disposal in some areas where we operate. Some areas in which we operate offer alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting. In addition, state, local and provincial authorities increasingly mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills. Any significant change in regulation or patterns regarding disposal of waste could have a material adverse effect on our earnings by reducing the level of demand for our services, resulting in decreased revenue and the earnings we are able to generate. Limits on export of waste and any disruptions to the cross-border flow of waste may adversely affect our results of operations by increasing our costs of disposal There is limited disposal capacity available in Ontario, Canada, a market in which we have significant operations. As a result, a significant portion of the solid waste collected in Ontario is transported to sites in the United States for disposal or incineration. Disruptions in the cross-border flow of waste, or periodic closures of the border to solid waste would cause us to incur more costs due to the increased time trucks hauling our waste may be required to spend at border check-points or increased processing or sorting requirements. Additionally, trucks hauling our waste might be required to travel further to dispose of the waste in other areas of Ontario. Disruptions in the cross-border flow of waste could also result in a lack of disposal capacity available to our Ontario market at a reasonable price or at all. These disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by increasing our costs of disposal in the Ontario market and thereby decreasing our operating margins and could result in the loss of business to competitors with more favorable disposal options. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 14 Table of Contents 