Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business, and an investment in our securities, involves risks. The following summary describes factors we believe are material risks relating to our business and to the ownership of our securities. Our discussion of these risks contains forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. In addition, financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our common stock, may be substantially affected by other risks, including risks we have not identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. This summary does not purport to describe all risks that might possibly affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating To Our Business Recent Negative Developments in the Financial Services Industry and U.S. and Global Credit Markets May Adversely Impact Our Operations and Results. Negative developments in the latter half of 2007, throughout 2008 and into 2009 to date in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn for the remainder of 2009 and possibly beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of those same institutions. Stock prices of thrift holding companies, such as ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. Further negative developments in the financial services industry could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. If the interest payments we make on our deposits increase relative to our interest income, we may be less profitable. Our profitability depends to a large extent on Superior Bank’s net interest income, which is the difference between income from interest-earning assets, such as loans we make and investment securities we hold, and interest we pay on deposits and our own borrowings. Our net interest income is affected not only by actions we take, but by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature at a time when interest rates are declining, or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature at a time when interest rates are rising. In addition, we may be affected by changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. For example, short-term deposits may be used to support longer-term loans. If the difference between short-and long-term interest rates becomes smaller, the spread between the rates we pay on deposits and borrowings and the rates we receive on loans we make could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. Further, if market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit our ability to increase interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans, but we may have to pay higher interest rates on deposits and borrowings. This could cause our net interest income to decrease. An increase in loan prepayments may adversely affect our profitability. The rate at which borrowers prepay loans is dependent on a number of factors outside our control, including changes in market interest rates, conditions in the housing and financial markets and general economic conditions. We cannot always accurately predict prepayment rates. If the prepayment rates with respect to our loans are greater than we anticipate, there may be a 16 Table of Contents negative impact on our profitability because we may not be able to reinvest prepayment proceeds at rates comparable to those we received on the prepaid loans, particularly in a time of falling interest rates. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate, our profitability will be reduced. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and that any collateral securing such loans will be insufficient to ensure full repayment. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and our failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We evaluate the collectibility of our loan portfolio and review our evaluation on a regular basis, and we provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based on various factors that we believe may affect the credit quality of our loans. However, there can be no assurance that actual loan losses will not exceed the allowance that we have established, as such allowance is adjusted from time to time. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate for the actual losses we experience, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if as a result of our perception of adverse trends, we materially increase our allowance for loan losses in the future, such increase would also reduce our earnings. Events in our geographic markets could adversely affect us. Our business is concentrated in six geographic regions in Alabama and Florida. Any adverse changes in market or economic conditions in Florida and Alabama may increase the risk that our customers will be unable to make their loan payments. In addition, the market value of the real estate securing loans as collateral could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in local market conditions and general economic conditions. Any period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in general or in our markets in Florida and Alabama could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. With most of our loans concentrated in a small number of markets, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Thus, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. In addition, natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tornados, in our markets could adversely affect our business. The occurrence of such natural disasters in our markets could result in a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties and in an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or losses on these loans and may impact our customers’ ability to repay loans. We face substantial competition. There are numerous competitors in our geographic markets, including national, regional and local banks and thrifts and other financial services businesses, some of which have substantially greater resources, higher brand visibility and a wider geographic presence than we have. Some of these competitors may offer a greater range of services, more favorable pricing and greater customer convenience than we are able to. In addition, in some of our markets, there are a significant number of new banks and other financial institutions that have opened in the recent past or are expected to open in the near future, and such new competitors may also seek to exploit our markets and customer base. If we are unable to maintain and grow our market share in the face of such competition, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation. Our operations are subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. We are also subject to applicable regulations of the Federal Home Loan Bank. Regulation by these entities is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the deposit insurance fund and not for the benefit of our stockholders. We may incur substantial costs in complying with such regulations, and our failure to comply with them may expose us to substantial penalties. In addition, we are subject to numerous consumer protection laws and other laws relating to the operation of financial institutions. Our failure to comply with such laws could expose us to liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Federal regulation of banking industry may change significantly due to the unprecedented economic decline and conditions in the banking industry. Banking regulations are being reexamined, and the framework of bank regulatory organizations reconsidered, in the aftermath of the recent economic decline. In addition, for those financial institutions which were eligible for participation in the Treasury Department’s CPP (as Superior Bank 17 Table of Contents was) new regulations have been promulgated addressing lending activity and compensation. The effect of these developments, including future regulatory changes, is impossible to predict. Due to the current economic environment the United States Congress and the federal banking regulators may consider any number of proposals for increased regulation of financial institutions. We cannot predict at this time what the effect of this increased regulation would be. We may require additional capital to fund our growth plans. Our business strategy includes the expansion of our business through the development of new locations and through the acquisition of other financial institutions and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, complementary businesses as appropriate opportunities arise. In order to finance such growth and to maintain required regulatory capital levels, we may require additional capital in the future. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available upon favorable terms, or at all. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our operations and strategy are directed by our senior management team, most of whom have joined Superior Bancorp since January 2005. Any loss of the services of members of our management team could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to implement our business strategy. Risks Related To an Investment in Our Common Stock Superior Bancorp’s stock price may be volatile due to limited trading volume and general market conditions. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market. However, the average daily trading volume in our common stock is relatively small, typically under 50,000 shares per day and sometimes less. Trades involving a relatively small number of shares may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock, and it may be difficult for investors to acquire or dispose of large blocks of stock without significantly affecting the market price. In addition, market fluctuations, industry factors, general economic conditions and political events, including economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or market trends, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of our operating results of operations. Stock prices of thrift holding companies, such as ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets. Our ability to pay dividends is limited. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory requirements and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital to meet the capital needs of our business, including capital needs related to future growth. Our primary source of income is the payment of dividends from Superior Bank to us. Superior Bank, in turn, is likewise subject to regulatory requirements potentially limiting its ability to pay such dividends to us and by the need to maintain sufficient capital for its operations and obligations. Further, we are obligated, subject to regulatory limitations, to make periodic distributions on our trust preferred securities, subordinated debentures and preferred stock, which reduces the income that might otherwise be available to pay dividends on our common stock. Thus, there can be no assurance that we will pay dividends to our common stockholders, no assurance as to the amount or timing of any such dividends, and no assurance that such dividends, if and when paid, will be maintained, at the same level or at all, in future periods. Use of our common stock for future acquisitions or to raise capital may be dilutive to existing stockholders. When we determine that appropriate strategic opportunities exist, we may acquire other financial institutions and related businesses, subject to applicable regulatory requirements. We may use our common stock for such acquisitions. From time to time, we may also seek to raise capital through selling additional common stock. It is possible that the issuance of additional common stock in such acquisition or capital transactions may be dilutive to the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 