ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the value of our common stock could decline substantially. A prolonged economic slowdown could harm our operations. A prolonged economic downturn or recession could materially impact our operations to the extent it results in reduced demand for Web-based access to governmental services. In addition, it may hinder our efforts to obtain new business by distracting the attention of governments or impairing the ability of governments to hear or act upon our value proposition due to reduced personnel or turnover. These same factors may also jeopardize our renewal or rebid opportunities on existing contracts. If current market and economic conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience adverse impacts on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We may be unable to sustain the usage levels of current services that provide a significant percentage of our revenues. We obtain a high proportion of our revenues from a limited number of services. Transaction-based fees charged for access to motor vehicle records accounted for approximately 44% of our portal revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and are expected to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues in the near future. Regulatory changes or the development or increased use of alternative information sources, such as credit scoring, could materially reduce our revenues from this service. A reduction in revenues from currently popular services would harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 12 Because a major portion of our current revenues is generated from a small number of users, the loss of any of these users may harm our business and financial condition. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from data resellers' use of our portals to access motor vehicle records for sale to the automobile insurance industry. For the year ended December 31, 2009, one of these data resellers, LexisNexis Risk Solutions (formerly ChoicePoint), accounted for approximately 33% of our portal revenues. It is possible that these users will develop alternative data sources or new business processes that would materially diminish their use of our portals. The loss of all or a substantial portion of business from any of these entities would harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A proceeding against the Company and certain of its key officers is being considered by the SEC Enforcement Division Staff which, if authorized by the Commission, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company has previously disclosed an investigation by the staff of the Division of Enforcement (the "Staff") of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding the reimbursement of expenses to Jeffrey S. Fraser, the Company's former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The Company has fully cooperated with the Staff’s investigation, has engaged in its own thorough and independent internal investigation through its Audit Committee for the period from 2004 through June 2007 and the Audit Committee is further reviewing expense reimbursement to Mr. Fraser for 1999 through 2003, has bolstered its compliance procedures and internal controls, and has sought and obtained restitution from Mr. Fraser of expenses paid by the Company that Mr. Fraser was n ot authorized to receive. On March 9, 2010, the Company and Harry H. Herington, the Company’s Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Stephen M. Kovzan, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, and William F. Bradley, Jr., the Company's Chief Operating Officer and General Counsel (collectively the “Officers”), received "Wells Notices" from the Staff. A Wells Notice provides recipients with an opportunity to respond to issues raised in an investigation prior to any decision by the Commission on bringing an enforcement action, and is neither a formal allegation nor a finding of wrongdoing. The Wells Notice stated that the Staff is considering recommending that the Commission authorize a civil injunctive action against the Company and its Officers alleging violations of the anti-fraud, books and records, internal controls, extension of credit to officers and directors, and proxy and periodic reporting provisions of the federal securities laws. The Staff indicated that it may seek a permanent injunction and civil penalties against the Company and its Officers, disgorgement and officer and director bars against the Officers, and permanent suspensions from appearing and practicing before the SEC against Mr. Kovzan and Mr. Bradley. The amounts involved appear to be approximately $1.1 million for the period from 2002 through 2007. It appears that the Staff believes that the Company and its Officers should have responded sooner and more completely to indications of potential misconduct by Mr. Fraser involving claiming personal expenses as reimbursable business expenses. Any expense reimbursements improperly claimed by Mr. Fraser were not authorized by the Company's board of directors or any of its committees as compensation or loans. It appears that the Staff also believes that the Company and its Officers should have characterized certain authorized payments to Mr. Fraser as compensation rather than reimbursed business expenses, including approximately $473,000 of the $1.1 million relating to trav el by Mr. Fraser from Jackson, Wyoming to the Company's headquarters in Kansas. The Staff did not indicate that it believes Mr. Herington, Mr. Kovzan, or Mr. Bradley personally received any inappropriate expense reimbursements or that there was any failure to properly disclose their own compensation. The Company and the Officers disagree with the proposed recommendations of the Staff and are prepared to explain their reasons for this view. It is the Company's understanding that the Staff is reviewing a portion of 2008 in addition to its review of 2002 – 2007. In the event that the SEC investigation or Audit Committee review results in the identification of additional personal expense amounts that Mr. Fraser was not authorized to receive, the Company will seek repayment of such additional amounts from Mr. Fraser. 13 Even if the Staff's view of the characterization of Mr. Fraser’s expenses is finally determined to be correct, the Company believes that the expenses would continue to be reflected as selling and administrative expenses in the Company's results for the period from 2002 through 2007 and would not significantly change the Company's operating income (loss) or net income (loss) during any of those periods. There can be no assurance that the SEC will not take actions that could adversely affect the Company as a result of the matters described above. Among other things, if the SEC were to authorize and obtain officer and director bars in a SEC civil injunctive action against any of the members of management referenced above, the Company would lose the services of key personnel that could be expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company. We have incurred significant legal fees and other expenses in connection with the SEC investigation and the Audit Committee review and could incur significant legal fees and other expenses or fines or other penalties in connection with the ongoing SEC investigation and Audit Committee review, including advancements of expenses to current a nd former executive officers of the Company. In addition, members of our management have devoted in the past, and may need to devote in the future, a significant amount of time to these matters, which would reduce the amount of time they can devote to our business and therefore may have an adverse effect on our business. We may face damage to our professional reputation if our partners are not satisfied with our services or services provided by our third-party credit card merchant processors. We depend to a large extent on our relationships with our government partners, our reputation for high quality professional services and commitment to preserving public trust to attract and retain customers. As a result, if one of our government partners is not satisfied with our services or services provided by our third-party credit card merchant processors, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. We depend on subcontractors or the third parties with whom we partner for certain projects. If these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or we are unable to maintain these relationships, our operating results and business prospects could be adversely affected. Certain large and complex projects require that we utilize subcontractors or that our services and solutions integrate with the software, systems or infrastructure requirements of other vendors and service providers. Our ability to serve our clients and deliver and implement our solutions in a timely manner depends on the ability of these subcontractors, vendors and service providers to meet their project obligations in a timely manner, as well as on our effective oversight of their performance. There is a risk that we may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractors or customer concerns about the subcontractors. Disputes with subcontractors could lead to legal disputes and litigation. Adverse judgment s or settlements in legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. In addition, if any of our subcontractors fails to perform on a timely basis the agreed-upon services, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor may be jeopardized. Subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in the termination of our contract for default. A termination for default could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. Because a major portion of our accounts receivable is from a small number of users, negative trends in their businesses could cause us significant credit loss and negatively impact our operating cash flows and liquidity. LexisNexis Risk Solutions (formerly ChoicePoint) and other data resellers have a period of time, generally within 25 days of billing, to remit payment. As a result, we are subject to a significant concentration of credit risk that these users will not pay for their purchases. Our credit risk may increase due to liquidity or solvency issues experienced by these users, for example, as a result of the current severe economic downturn. At December 31, 2009, LexisNexis Risk Solutions accounted for approximately 25% of our consolidated accounts receivable. In addition, our business is generally subject to the risk that our customers and counterparties will fail to meet their obligations when due, particularly given the current state of the economy. While we perform ongoing c redit evaluations of our customers, we generally do not require collateral to secure accounts receivable. If we were unable to collect a major portion of our accounts receivable, we may suffer significant losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected. 14 Our portal revenues could be harmed as a result of government budget deficits. The majority of our portal revenues are derived from fees we charge to users for transactions conducted through our portals and share with our government partners. Budget-strapped governments may seek to reduce our transaction revenues from our self-funded business model or the profit margin we disclose to them, or may decide to operate the portals themselves. Approximately 11% of our portal revenues in 2009 were derived from time and materials-based fees for application development and approximately 6% of our portal revenues in 2009 were derived from fixed fees for portal management services, both of which are paid directly to us by governments. In the event of budget deficits, our government clients may be required to curtail discretionary spending on such projects and our portal revenues could be harme d. The fees we collect for many of our services are subject to regulation that could limit growth of our revenues and profitability. Under the terms of our self-funded outsourced government portal contracts, we remit a portion of the transaction fees we collect to state agencies. Generally, our contracts provide that the amount of any transaction fees we retain is set by governments to provide us with a reasonable return or profit. We have limited control over the level of transaction fees we are permitted to retain. Our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be harmed if the level of fees we are permitted to retain in the future is too low or if our costs rise without a commensurate increase in fees. Increases in credit card association fees may result in the loss of customers or a reduction in our earnings. From time to time, Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover increase the fees (interchange and assessment fees) that they charge processors such as us. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our government client customers, but this might result in the loss of those customers. If we elect not to pass along such increased fees to our government client customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases thereby increasing our operating costs and reducing our earnings. If our competitors are more successful in attracting and retaining customers and users, then our revenues and profits could decline. The principal substitute for our services is a government-designed and managed service that integrates other vendors' technologies, products and services. Companies that have expertise in marketing and providing technical electronic services to government entities compete with us by further developing their services and increasing their focus on this piece of their business. Many of our potential competitors are national or international in scope and have greater resources than we do. These resources could enable our potential competitors to initiate severe price cuts or take other measures in an effort to gain market share. Additionally, in some geographic areas, we may face competition from smaller consulting firms with established reputations and political relationships with potential government partne rs. If we do not compete effectively or if we experience any pricing pressures, reduced margins or loss of market share resulting from increased competition, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. Because we have portal outsourcing contracts with a limited number of governments, the termination of certain of these contracts may harm our business. Currently, we have portal contracts with 23 state governments, and were recently awarded a new portal contract in New Jersey, which has not yet fully deployed. These contracts typically have initial terms of three to five years with optional renewal periods of one to five years. However, any renewal is optional and a government may terminate its contract prior to the expiration date upon specific cause events that are not cured within a specified period and, in certain circumstances, upon passing legislation. 15 Additionally, six contracts under which we provide portal management and application development services can be terminated without cause on a specified period of notice. Collectively, revenues generated from contracts that can be terminated without cause represented 49% of our portal revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. In the event that any of these contracts would be terminated without cause, the terms of the respective contract may require the government to pay a fee to us in order to continue to use our software in its portal. In addition, the loss of one or more of our larger state portal partners, such as Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Utah or Virginia, if not replaced, could significantly reduce our revenues. If these revenue shortfalls were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We cannot be certain if, when or to what extent governments might fail to renew or terminate any or all of their contracts with us. The growth in our revenues may be limited by the number of governments and government agencies that choose to provide eGovernment services and to adopt our business model and by the finite number of governments with which we may contract for our eGovernment services. Our revenues are generated principally from contracts with state governments and government agencies within a state to provide eGovernment services on behalf of those government entities to complete transactions and distribute public information electronically. The growth in our revenues largely depends on government entities adopting our public/private model. We cannot assure that government entities will choose to provide eGovernment services at all, or that they will not provide such services themselves without private assistance or adopting our model. Under our self-funded business model, we initially generate a high proportion of our revenues from a limited number of transaction-based services we provide on behalf of government agencies. The failure to secure contracts with certain government agencie s, particularly those agencies that control motor vehicle records, could result in revenue levels insufficient to support a portal’s operations on a self-sustained, profitable basis. In addition, as there is a finite number of states remaining with which we can contract for our services, future increases in our revenues may depend in part on our ability to expand our business model to include multi-state cooperative organizations, local governments and federal agencies and to broaden our service offerings to diversify our revenue streams across our lines of business. We cannot assure that we will succeed in expanding into new markets, broadening our service offerings, or that our services will be adaptable to those new markets. To be successful, we must develop and market comprehensive, efficient, cost-effective and secure electronic access to public information and new services. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract a greater number of Internet users to access public information electronically by delivering a comprehensive composite of public information and an efficient, cost effective and secure method of electronic access and transactions. Moreover, in order to increase revenues in the future, we must continue to develop services that businesses and citizens will find valuable, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so. If we are unable to develop services that allow us to attract, retain and expand our current user base, our revenues and future results of operations may be harmed. We cannot assure that the services we offer will appeal to a sufficient number of Internet users to generate continued revenue growth. Our ability to attract Internet users to our governme nt portals depends on several factors, including: · the comprehensiveness of public records available through our government portals; · the perceived efficiency and cost-effectiveness of accessing public records electronically; · the effectiveness of security measures; · the increased usage and continued reliability of the Internet; and · the user acceptance of our online applications and services. 16 Security breaches or system failures may harm our reputation and adversely affect future earnings. A significant challenge to electronic commerce is the secure transmission of sensitive and/or personal information (“information”) over public networks. In addition to complying with requirements established for protecting information contained in federal and state laws, we are also required to comply with the Payment Card Industry’s Data Security Standards, or PCI DSS, because we provide online payment processing services. Since we provide the electronic transmission of information released from various government entities and we perform online payment processing services, we represent a target for criminal hackers. Despite the various security measures we have in place to protect information from unauthorized disclosure, a compromise or breach may still occur. Hackers have become increasingly sophisticated, and therefore, cyber security is an ever-moving target. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information, including, but not limited to user credit card information, or cause interruptions or direct damage to our government portals. Any breach in our security resulting in the compromise of information, could expose us to fines imposed by the Payment Card Industry and jeopardize our ability to continue processing transactions with specific payment card brands. Also, should hackers compromise information, or create bugs or viruses in an attempt to sabotage the functionality of our applications and services, we may receive negative publicity, incur liability to or remediation costs for our portal users and our government partners or lose the confidence of the governments with whom we contract, any of which may cause the termination or modification of our government contracts. Because we have certain portal outsourcing contracts that contain performance bond requirements and/or indemnification provisions against claims arising from our performance, we may suffer monetary damages if we fail to meet our contractual obligations. In addition, any failure to meet such obligations, whether or not a performance bond is in place, may result in reputational damages. We are bound by performance bond commitments on certain portal outsourcing contracts. Performance deficiencies by us or our subcontractors could result in a default of a performance bond, which could expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition, and on our ability to compete for future portal outsourcing contracts. Further, under certain of our portal outsourcing contracts, we are required to fully indemnify our government clients against claims arising from our performance or the performance of our subcontractors. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations or our performance or our subcontractors' performance gives rise to claims, we could be subject to legal liability, monetary damages and loss of customer relationships. We may be unable to obtain future contracts through the government procurement process. A high percentage of our current revenues is derived from contracts with governments and government agencies that operate under special rules that apply to government purchasing. Where this process applies, there are special rules that typically require open bidding by possible service providers like us against a list of requirements established by governments under existing or specially-created procedures. To respond successfully to these requests for proposals, commonly known as RFPs, we must estimate accurately our cost structure for servicing a proposed contract, the time required to establish operations for the proposed client and the likely terms of any other proposals submitted. We also must assemble and submit a large volume of information within the strict time schedule mandated by an RFP. Whether or not we are able t o respond successfully to RFPs in the future will significantly impact our business. We cannot guarantee that we will win any bids in the future through the RFP process, or that any winning bids will ultimately result in contracts. Our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed if we fail to obtain profitable future contracts through the RFP process. 17 If our potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our online government portals and other electronic services, our growth and revenues will be limited. The failure to generate a large customer base would harm our growth and revenues. This failure could occur for several reasons. Our future revenues and profits depend upon the widespread acceptance and use of the Internet as an effective medium for accessing public information, particularly as a medium for government filings. We cannot assure that customer acceptance and use of the Internet will continue to grow. Additionally, we face intense competition in all sectors of our business. As a result, our efforts to create a larger customer base may be more difficult than expected even if we are perceived to offer services superior to those of our competitors. Further, because the government-to-citizen and government-to-business portal access and electronic filing market is relatively new, potenti al customers in this market may be confused or uncertain about the relative merits of each eGovernment application and of which application to adopt, if any. Confusion and uncertainty in the marketplace may inhibit customers from adopting our applications, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may lose the right to the content distributed through our outsourced portals, which is provided to us entirely by government entities. We do not own or create the content distributed through our outsourced portals. We depend on the governments with which we contract to supply information and data feeds to us on a timely basis to allow businesses and citizens to complete transactions and obtain government information. We cannot assure that these data sources will continue to be available in the future. Government entities could terminate their contracts to provide data. Changes in regulations could mean that governments no longer collect some types of data or that the data is protected by more stringent privacy rules preventing uses now made of it. Moreover, our data sources are not always subject to exclusive agreements, so that data included in our services also may be included in those of our potential competitors. In additi on, we are dependent upon the accuracy and reliability of government computer systems and data collection for the content of our portals. The loss or the unavailability of our data sources in the future, or the loss of our exclusive right to distribute some of the data sources, could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business with various government entities sometimes requires specific government legislation to be passed for us to initiate and maintain our government contracts. Because a central part of our business includes the execution of contracts with governments under which we remit a portion of user fees charged to businesses and citizens to state agencies, it is sometimes necessary for governments to draft and adopt specific legislation before the government can circulate an RFP to which we can respond. Furthermore, the maintenance of our government contracts requires the continued acceptance of our approach, including any enabling legislation and any implementing regulations. In the past, various entities that use the portals we operate to obtain government information have challenged the authority of governments to electronically provide these services exclusively through portals like those we operate. A successful challenge in the future could result in a proliferation of alternative ways to obtain t hese services, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The repeal or modification of any enabling legislation would also harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 18 Because a large portion of our business relies on a contractual bidding process whose parameters are established by governments, the length of our sales cycles is uncertain and can lead to shortfalls in revenues. Our dependence on a bidding process to initiate many new projects, the parameters of which are established by governments, results in uncertainty in our sales cycles because the duration and the procedures for each bidding process vary significantly according to each government entity's policies and procedures. The time between the date of initial contact with a government for a bid and the award of the bid may range from as little as 180 days to up to several years. The bidding process is subject to factors over which we have little or no control, including: · political acceptance of the concept of government agencies contracting with third parties to distribute public information, which has been offered traditionally only by the government agencies and often without charge; · the internal review process by the government agencies for bid acceptance; · the need to reach a political accommodation among various interest groups; · changes to the bidding procedure by the government agencies; · changes to state legislation authorizing government's contracting with third parties to distribute public information; · changes in government administrations; · the budgetary restrictions of government entities; · the competition generated by the bidding process; · the possibility of cancellation or delay by the government entities; and · government's manner of drafting bid documents, which may partially, or not at all, utilize our method of providing eGovernment services. We are dependent on the bidding process for a significant part of our business. Therefore, any material delay in the bidding process, changes to the bidding practices and policies, the failure to receive the award of the bid or the failure to execute a contract may disrupt our financial results for a particular period and harm our financial condition. We may need more working capital to fund operations and expand our business. We believe that our current financial resources will be sufficient to meet our present working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may need to raise additional capital before this period ends to further: · fund operations, if unforeseen costs or revenue shortfalls arise; · support our expansion into other states and government agencies beyond what is contemplated in 2010 if unforeseen opportunities arise; · expand our product and service offerings beyond what is contemplated in 2010 if unforeseen opportunities arise; · respond to unforeseen competitive pressures; and · acquire technologies beyond what is contemplated. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the success of our existing and new service offerings and potentially competing technological and market developments. However, any projections of future cash flows are subject to substantial uncertainty. If current cash, lines of credit and cash generated from operations are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities, issue debt securities or draw on the unused portion of our line of credit. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to the Company's stockholders. From time to time, we expect to evaluate the acquisition of or investment in businesses and technologies that complement our various eGovernment bus inesses. Acquisitions or investments might impact the Company's liquidity requirements or cause the Company to sell additional equity securities or issue debt securities. Recently, credit and capital markets have experienced unusual volatility and disruption, and equity and debt financing have become more expensive and difficult to obtain. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to the Company, if at all. If adequate funds were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to develop or enhance our applications and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. This limitation could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 In the event that we need debt financing in the future, recent uncertainty in the credit markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. Although we do not currently need debt financing, in the event we were to require debt financing in the future, the severe dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the credit markets could materially impact our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. The inability to access debt financing on reasonable terms could materially impact our ability to make acquisitions or materially expand our business in the future. If we fail to coordinate or expand our operational procedures and controls, we may not effectively manage our growth. Our growth rate may increase rapidly in response to the acceptance of our services under new or existing government contracts. If we cannot manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to coordinate the activities of our technical, accounting and marketing staffs, and our business could be harmed. We intend to plan for the acceptance of new bids by a number of governmental entities so that we may be ready to begin operations as soon as possible after acceptance of a bid. Additionally, we plan to continue our expansion of eGovernment services into new government markets. As part of this growth plan, we must implement new operational procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employees and to coordinate the operations of our various subsidiaries. If we cannot manage the growth of our gover nment portals, staff, software installation and maintenance teams, offices and operations, our business may be harmed. We may be unable to hire, integrate or retain qualified personnel. The growth in our business has resulted in an increase in the responsibilities for both existing and new management personnel. Some of our personnel are presently serving in more than one managerial capacity. The loss of any of our key employees could harm our business. In addition, we currently expect that we will need to hire additional personnel in all areas throughout 2010, including personnel for new operations in jurisdictions in which we may obtain contracts. We may not be able to retain our current key employees or attract, integrate or retain other qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or integrating, retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business could be harmed. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training in the presentation , policies and positioning of our government portals and other services. This training will require substantial resources and management attention. The seasonality of use for some of our eGovernment services may harm our fourth quarter results of each calendar year. The use of some of our eGovernment services is seasonal, particularly the accessing of drivers' records, resulting in lower revenues from this service under existing portal contracts in the fourth quarter of each calendar year, due to the smaller number of business days in this quarter and a lower volume of transactions during the holiday period. 20 Our quarterly results of operations may be volatile and difficult to predict. If our quarterly results of operations fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. Our future revenues and results of operations may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. These factors include: · the commencement, completion or termination of contracts during any particular quarter; · the introduction of new eGovernment services by us or our competitors; · technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our eGovernment services; · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the expansion of our business operations and infrastructure; · the result of negative cash flows due to capital investments; and · the incurrence of significant charges related to acquisitions. Due to the factors noted above, our revenues in a particular quarter may be lower than we anticipate and if we are unable to reduce spending in that quarter, our results of operations for that quarter may be harmed. One should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock may decline. Our acquisitions and strategic alliances entail numerous risks and uncertainties. As part of our business strategy, we have made and may continue to make acquisitions or enter into strategic alliances that we believe will complement our existing businesses, increase traffic to our government clients' sites, enhance our services, broaden our software and applications offerings or technological capabilities or increase our profitability. Future acquisitions or joint ventures could present numerous risks and uncertainties, including: · difficulties in the assimilation of operations, personnel, technologies and information systems of the acquired companies; · the inability to successfully market, distribute, deploy and manage new products and services that we have limited or no experience in managing; · the diversion of management's attention from our core business; · the risk that an acquired business will not perform as expected or will have profit margins significantly lower than ours; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of our acquired businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with existing suppliers and customers; · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, which may be freely tradable in the public market; · erosion of our brand equity in the eGovernment or financial markets; · impairment, restructuring and other charges related to goodwill and other long-lived intangible assets; and · the incurrence of debt and related interest or other expenses. 21 We cannot be sure that any acquisitions we may announce will ultimately close. Moreover, even after we close such transactions, we cannot assure that we will be able to successfully integrate the new businesses or any other businesses, products or technologies we may acquire in the future. Our intellectual property rights are valuable and any inability to protect them could harm our company. We regard our intellectual property as important to our success. We rely on a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements with governments, our employees, subcontractors and other third parties, copyrights and privacy and trade secret laws to protect and limit the distribution of the proprietary applications, documentation and processes we have developed in connection with the eGovernment services we offer. Despite our precautions, third parties may succeed in misappropriating our intellectual property or independently developing similar intellectual property. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and proprietary information or if we become involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights and proprietary technology, our business could be harmed. Any actions we take may not be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, and other companies may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our proprietary technology. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. We may become subject to claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. Our portal contracts require us to indemnify our government partners for infringing software we build or use. Any claims could subject us to costly litigation, and may require us to pay damages and develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement. Licenses for such intellectual property may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the Internet and software industries. We expect third-party infringement claims involving Internet technologies and software products and services to increase. If an infringement claim is filed again st us, we may be prevented from using certain technologies and may incur significant costs resolving the claim. We cannot assure that our applications and services do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, we have agreed, and expect that we may agree in the future, to indemnify certain of our customers against claims that our services infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims. In the event of a claim of infringement, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We cannot assure that we or our customers could obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. We generally grant our customers fully paid licenses to use the software and applications we develop for use in their portals. If customers elect to terminate our contracts and manage portal operations internally, our revenues and profits could decline. After termination or expiration of our contracts, it is possible that governments and their successors and affiliates may operate the portals themselves using their right of use license rights to the software programs and other applications we have developed for them in the operation of their portals (excluding software applications that we provide on a software-as-a-service basis). This could adversely affect our revenues and profits. Additionally, they may inadvertently allow our intellectual property or other information to fall into the hands of third parties, including our competitors. 22 We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties, and the loss of this technology could delay implementation of our services or force us to pay higher license fees. We license numerous third-party technologies and applications that we incorporate into our existing service offerings, on which, in the aggregate, we are substantially dependent. There can be no assurance that the licenses for such third-party technologies will not be terminated or that we will be able to license third-party technology and applications for future services. While we do not believe that one individual technology or application we license is material to our business, changes in or the loss of third party licenses could lead to a material increase in the costs of licensing or to our products becoming inoperable or their performance being materially reduced, with the result that we may need to incur additional development or procurement costs in an attempt to ensure continued performance of our services, and either the cost of such undertakings or the failure to successfully complete such undertakings could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the increasing use of the Internet and on the growth of online government information systems. If the use of the Internet and eGovernment information systems does not continue to grow as anticipated, our business will be seriously harmed. Our business depends on the increased acceptance and use of the Internet as a medium for accessing public information and completing government filings. Acceptance and use of the Internet may not continue to develop at historical rates and a sufficiently broad base of individuals and businesses may not adopt or continue to use the Internet as a medium for accessing government portals and other online services. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced services over the Internet are subject to a high level of uncertainty, and there exist few proven services. Our business would be seriously harmed if: · use of the Internet and other online services does not continue to increase or increases more slowly than expected; or · the technology underlying the Internet and other online services does not effectively support any expansion that may occur. If the Internet infrastructure fails to develop or be adequately maintained, our business would be harmed because users may not be able to access our government portals. The Internet has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, significant growth in the number of users and amount of traffic. If the Web continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support these increased demands or perform reliably. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and could face such outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage and traffic on our government portals. Such outages and delays would also hinder our customers' ability to complete eGovernment transactions. In addition, the Internet could lose its viability due to delays in the development or adoption o f new standards and protocols to handle increased levels of activity or due to increased governmental regulation. If the Internet infrastructure is not adequately developed or maintained, use of our government portals and our government-to-citizen and government-to-business services may be reduced. Our success depends on the increase in Internet usage generally and in particular as a means to access public information electronically. This in part requires the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. If this infrastructure fails to develop or be adequately maintained, our business would be harmed because users may not be able to access our government portals. Among other things, this development and maintenance will require a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, security and timely development of complementary products for providing reliable Internet access and services. 23 We are subject to independent audits by our government customers. Deficiencies in our performance under a government contract could result in contract termination, reputational damage or financial penalties. Each government entity with which we contract for outsourced portal services has the authority to require an independent audit of our performance and financial management of contracted operations in each respective state. The scope of audits could include inspections of income statements, balance sheets, fee structures, collections practices, service levels and our compliance with contract provisions and applicable laws, regulations and standards. We cannot assure that a future audit will not find any material performance deficiencies that would result in an adjustment to our revenues and result in financial penalties. Moreover, the consequent negative publicity could harm our reputation among other governments with which we would like to contract. All of these factors could harm our business, results of operations and financi al condition. We may be unable to integrate new technologies and industry standards effectively. Our future success will depend on our ability to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our services in accordance with industry standards and to address the increasingly sophisticated technological needs of our customers on a cost-effective and timely basis. Our ability to remain competitive will depend, in part, on our ability to: · enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and other features of the government portals we offer; · continue to develop our technical expertise; · develop and introduce new services, applications and technology to meet changing customer needs and preferences; and · influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. We cannot assure that we will be successful in responding to the above technological and industry challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to integrate new technologies and industry standards effectively, our business could be harmed. We may be held liable for content that we obtain from government agencies. Because we aggregate and distribute sometimes private and sensitive public information over the Internet, we may face potential liability for defamation, libel, negligence, invasion of privacy, copyright or trademark infringement, and other claims based on the nature and content of the material that is published on our outsourced government portals. Most of the agreements through which we obtain consent to disseminate this information do not contain indemnity provisions in our favor. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services and Web sites in the past. We cannot assure that our general liability or errors and omissions insurance will be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. Any liability that is not covered by our insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could severely harm our business operations and financial condition. 24 Our systems may fail or limit user traffic. Most of our communications hardware and computer hardware operations for delivering our eGovernment services are located individually in each state or city where we provide those services. We cannot assure that during the occurrence of fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events that the modem banks and direct dial-up connections we have to serve as back-up systems will not prevent damage to our systems or cause interruptions to our services. Computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could cause users to stop visiting our government portals and could cause our partners to terminate agreements with us. If any of these circumstances occurred, our business could be harmed. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses t hat may occur due to any failures of or interruptions in our systems. Our government portals must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. These government portals may experience interruptions due to any failure or delay by government agencies in the transmission or receipt of this information. Due to holidays and technical problems with state computer systems, our Web sites have experienced slower response times or decreased traffic in the past and may experience the same incidents in the future. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other Web site operators for access to our government portals and other online government-to-citizen and government-to-business services. Many of these providers and operators have experienced significant outages in the past due to system failures unrelated to our systems, h olidays and heavy user traffic, and could experience the same outages, delays and other difficulties in the future. Any of these system failures could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may become subject to liability under NACHA rules and standards for processing electronic direct debit payments from bank accounts. Our electronic check processing for online payments made by direct debit to a bank account is governed by rules and standards promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association, or NACHA, an industry trade association of banking institutions and regional automated clearing house associations. Under those rules, we may become potentially liable for failing to handle transactions in accordance with those rules, or for failing to return funds within the prescribed time frame to the bank account of the person or entity disputing our authorization to debit those funds, before the dispute regarding our authorization is resolved. Our agreements with governmental agencies at the state, federal, and local level transfer this obligation for rapid funds return during dispute resolution to the government agencies affected, but in the e vent that such return does not happen, we may be potentially liable notwithstanding the government’s failure, and we may not be able to obtain reimbursement from the government involved or from the individual user or entity that initiated the debit without authorization. If this were to happen, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. We may become liable for violations of the Driver Privacy Protection Act as adopted federally or in each state. We act as an outsourced manager on behalf of states, for electronic access to records pertaining to motor vehicles and motor vehicle operators (driver history records) by users and certain permitted resellers. These records are the largest group of records for which we process electronic access for any state agency, and are processed in each of our portal states. These records contain “personal information” and “sensitive personal information” as defined by the federal Driver Privacy Protection Act, and state versions of that Act adopted in every state (collectively, the “DPPA”). The DPPA regulates categories and circumstances under which “personal information” and “sensitive personal information” may be disclosed to requestors. Each state has procedures for complying with the DPPA, and such procedures may vary from state to state. We closely follow the state’s existing compliance procedures for general access, with our electronic access. If we fail to follow such procedures, or we grant access to users not in compliance with such procedures, or if such procedures are deemed inadequate in some way, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. The DPPA permits statutory damages to be awarded to the subjects of such records, even without proof of actual damage, for certain infringements or violations of the DPPA. We may be potentially liable for such damages in such instances, and we may have no recourse against the state, or the state may not be jointly and severally liable with us. 25 If we cannot accurately predict the demand for our new National Motor Carrier Pre-Employment Screening Program service for the Department of Transportation, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, our business could be harmed. Our new National Motor Carrier Pre-Employment Screening Program (“PSP”) service for the Department of Transportation, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (“FMCSA”) is expected to launch in the spring of 2010. The PSP is a new service offering for both the FMCSA and us, with no historical volume data on which to base our revenue estimates. Furthermore, the PSP is not a mandatory service for prospective motor carrier employers. The number of prospective motor carrier employers is very large. Because the system will be developed and maintained using a self-funded, transaction-based business model, the failure to generate a sufficiently large customer base and transaction volumes could harm our expected growth and revenues, and we could incur operating losses from th is business. This failure could occur because potential customers may be unaware of the service or uncertain about the relative merits of the service. Conversely, if demand for the service increases rapidly, our staffing levels, operational procedures and controls may be insufficient to manage such rapid growth and our infrastructure may not be able to support the high demand or perform reliably. If we cannot manage such demand, the use of this service may be reduced and our reputation may be harmed. We may become liable for violation of the Fair Credit Reporting Act as adopted federally. Our new PSP service for the FMCSA requires that PSP record data be disclosed in compliance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act (“FCRA”). If we fail to follow such procedures, or we grant access to users not in compliance with such procedures, or if such procedures are deemed inadequate in some way, we may become subject to monetary fines, penalties or damages, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. The FCRA permits statutory damages to be awarded to the subjects of such records, even without proof of actual damage, for certain infringements or violations of the FCRA. In addition, any failure to comply with the FCRA may result in reputational damages. We may become liable for disclosing PSP record data improperly. A Federal law known as the Safe, Accountable, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (“SAFETEA-LU”) limits access to PSP record data to commercial driving operator applicants and their prospective employers, and can only be used in screening applicants for employment. Because the service is only useful if data access is quick and easy, we employ sophisticated systems of online agreements and validation information gathering, plus third party verification systems, to verify the identity and bona fides of any requestor. These systems may be incomplete or contain errors or omissions, or their operation may be flawed, resulting in improper disclosure or disclosure for an improper purpose or to improper persons. If we fail to follow appropriate procedures, or we grant access to use rs not in compliance with such procedures, or if such procedures are deemed inadequate in some way, we may become subject to monetary fines, penalties or damages, and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. Furthermore, the magnitude of the potential number of transactions accessed through our PSP service, which we cannot currently estimate because it is a new service with no historical volume data and is not a mandatory service for prospective employers, may result in monetary damages that are correspondingly large. In addition, any failure to comply with SAFETEA-LU may result in reputational damages. 26 Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining adequate and appropriate standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolvin g laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. We may be unable to generate sufficient taxable income from future operations to fully utilize our state tax net operating loss carryforwards. We have a history of unprofitable operations primarily due to operating losses incurred in the software & services companies we have acquired since September 1999. These losses have generated significant federal and state tax net operating losses, or NOLs. The Company fully utilized its federal NOL carryforwards during 2009. At December 31, 2009, we have deferred tax assets related to state NOL carryforwards totaling approximately $1.2 million that will begin to expire in 2016 and fully expire by 2026. Even though we currently expect to be profitable and generate taxable income in 2010 and beyond, we may not be able to sustain the necessary levels of taxable income in certain states to fully utilize our state NOL carryforwards prior to expiration. There is considerable management judgment necessary to determine future taxable income, and accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. Accordingly, the recorded amount of the deferred tax assets considered realizable could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carryforward periods are reduced. If this occurs, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be negatively impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 