ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this Form 10-K. Except as mentioned under “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk” and except for the historical information contained herein, the discussion contained in this Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements,” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in this Form 10-K. Important factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed below, as well as those discussed elsewhere herein. 16 The royalties we earn on Allegra may continue to decrease. Royalties from sales of Allegra currently constitute a significant portion of our total revenues and operating income. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our royalties from Allegra were $27.0 million, which represented approximately 15% of our total revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005, our royalties from Allegra were $46.9 million, which represented approximately 26% of our total revenues. The decrease is primarily attributable to the at-risk launch of generic fexofenadine announced by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. on September 6, 2005, which has had a material adverse impact on U.S. sales of Allegra beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005. The launch of the generic product is considered an “at-risk” launch due to the on-going litigation. Continued generic Allegra competition, including the entrance of additional generic competitors upon the expiration of Barr’s 180-day exclusivity period for marketing generic fexofenadine or an at-risk launch of a generic version of Allegra-D by a generic competitor, may further adversely affect U.S. sales of Allegra. If the dollar amount of Allegra sales subject to our license agreement decreases, due to these or any other factors, our revenues from our license agreement with Sanofi-Aventis will also decrease. Because we have very few costs associated with the Allegra license, a decrease in revenues from our license agreement for Allegra would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, operating income, and financial condition. For example, a $5.0 million decrease in our Allegra royalty revenue would decrease our operating income by $4.5 million. The recurring royalties we receive on the sales of Allegra/Telfast have historically provided a material portion of our revenues, earnings, and operating cash flows. The at-risk launch of generic fexofenadine announced by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. on September 6, 2005 had a material adverse impact on U.S. sales of Allegra in 2006, resulting in a 42% year-over-year decrease in our royalty revenues. We currently expect that the at-risk launch of generic fexofenadine will have a similar impact on our royalty revenues in future periods. We expect to experience a decrease in earnings, and operating cash flows in the short term as we continue to develop our business in an effort to supplement the revenues, earnings and operating cash flows that have historically been provided by Allegra/Telfast royalties. We have been issued several patents on a pure form of, and a manufacturing process for, fexofenadine HCl. The patent positions of pharmaceutical, medical and biotechnology firms can be uncertain and can involve complex legal and factual questions. Litigation, in particular patent litigation, can be complex and time-consuming and the outcome is inherently uncertain. We cannot assure our stockholders that we and/or Sanofi-Aventis will ultimately succeed in its current or any future litigation against generic drug manufacturers involving patents with respect to Allegra. In the event that one or more of the patents owned by us or Sanofi-Aventis are ultimately determined to be invalid or unenforceable, Sanofi-Aventis and we would lose exclusivity with respect to the claims covered by those patents. Any such loss of exclusivity or the introduction of generic forms of fexofenadine HCl may cause a reduction in Allegra sales. In addition, under our current arrangements with Sanofi-Aventis, Sanofi-Aventis, with consultation from us, has the right to lead with respect to preparing and executing a strategy to defend and enforce certain of the patents relating to Allegra, and is executing that role in the current litigation. As a result, we may not be able to control the conduct of such litigation and the strategic decisions that are made during the course of such litigation. See “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies may discontinue or decrease their usage of our services. We depend on pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that use our services for a large portion of our revenues. Although there has been a trend among pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to outsource drug research and development functions, this trend may not continue. We have experienced increasing pressure on the part of our customers to reduce expenses, including the use of our services as a result of negative economic trends generally and in the pharmaceutical industry. Although our contract 17 revenues increased in 2006, we may be adversely effected in future periods as a result of general economic or pharmaceutical industry downturns. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies discontinue or decrease their usage of our services, including as a result of a slowdown in the overall United States economy, our revenues and earnings could be lower than we currently expect and our revenues may decrease or not grow at historical rates. We may lose one or more of our major customers. During the year-ended December 31, 2006, revenues from sales of a raw material to GE for use in one of its diagnostic imaging agents GE totaled $32.5 million and represented approximately 21% of our contract revenue, or 18% of our total revenue. Our subsidiary, Organichem, entered into a long-term agreement to supply this material to GE in 1999 that was renewed in 2005, extending the expiration date of the original agreement from 2007 to 2010. GE’s purchases have historically exceeded the contractual minimum purchases, however, this may not continue. If GE materially reduces its purchase levels, there may be a material decrease in our revenues and operating income. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2006, our DDS segment provided services to three major customers representing approximately 12% of our contract revenues or 10% of our total revenue. These customers typically may cancel their contracts with 30 days’ to one-year’s prior notice depending on the size of the contract, for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If any one of our major customers cancels its contract with us, our contract revenues may decrease. We face increased competition. We compete directly with the in-house research departments of pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as combinatorial chemistry companies, contract research companies, and research and academic institutions. We are also experiencing increased competition from foreign companies operating under lower cost structures. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we have. As new companies enter the market and as more advanced technologies become available, we currently expect to face increased competition. In the future, any one of our competitors may develop technological advances that render the services that we provide obsolete. While we plan to develop technologies, which will give us competitive advantages, our competitors plan to do the same. We may not be able to develop the technologies we need to successfully compete in the future, and our competitors may be able to develop such technologies before we do or provide those services at a lower cost. Consequently, we may not be able to successfully compete in the future. We may be unsuccessful in producing and licensing proprietary technology developed from our internal research and development efforts or acquired from a third party. We have expended and continue to expend significant time and money on internal research and development with the intention of producing proprietary technologies in order to patent and then license them to other companies. For example, in October 2005 we licensed our proprietary amine neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitor technology to BMS. However, we may not be successful in producing any additional valuable technology or successfully licensing it to a third party in the future. To the extent we are unable to produce technology that we can license, we may not receive any revenues related to our internal research and development efforts. We may be unsuccessful in our collaboration with BMS. Our objective is to patent and license our proprietary technologies to other companies for the purpose of advancing compounds associated with these technologies through human clinical trials, and ultimately, obtaining regulatory approval for the commercial sale of products containing these compounds. We seek to enter into licensing arrangements with selected partners that provide for a combination of up-front 18 license fees, milestone payments upon the achievement of specified research and development objectives, and royalty payments based on sales of related commercial products. In October 2005, we licensed the worldwide rights to develop and commercialize potential products from our amine neurotransmitter reuptake inhibitors identified in one of our proprietary research programs to BMS. In conjunction with the licensing agreement, we received a non-refundable, non-creditable up-front fee of $8 million. In addition, BMS will purchase approximately $10 million in research and development services over the initial three year term of our agreement. The license agreement also sets forth development related milestone events that, if achieved by our products, would entitle us to non-refundable, non-creditable milestone payments of up to $66.0 million for each of the first and second products to achieve these events, and up to $22.0 million for each subsequent product to achieve these events. The license agreement also provides for us to receive royalty payments on worldwide sales of any such product that is commercialized. Our arrangement with BMS is a significant component of our proprietary research and development business. If there is a delay or failure in BMS’s performance, our proprietary research and development business may not produce the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate. We cannot control BMS’s performance or the resources it devotes to our collaborative program. We cannot guarantee BMS’s continuous utilization of our services at levels set forth in our agreement after the initial term of the agreement, and we cannot guarantee BMS’s continued pursuit of programs covered by our agreement. Furthermore, with respect to any drug candidate resulting from our collaborative program, the FDA may delay or deny marketing approvals because of adverse FDA decisions or interpretations of data that differ from BMS’s interpretations and that may require additional clinical trials or potential changes in the cost, scope and duration of clinical trials. Even if we succeed in getting market approvals, BMS may not have the ability to successfully launch, increase sales of or sustain the product or products in the market, or efficiently scale-up manufacturing for commercialized compounds. Disputes may arise between us and BMS, which may not be resolved in our favor. Further, BMS could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. The occurrence of any of these could result in our proprietary research and development business not producing the long-term revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate. Our business may be adversely affected if we encounter complications in connection with our implementation of information management software. In July 2006, we completed the first of several phases of the implementation of a new comprehensive enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system to enhance operating efficiencies and provide more effective management of our business operations. Continuing and uninterrupted performance of our ERP system is critical to the success of our business strategy. Any material failure of our ERP system that interrupts or delays our operations could adversely impact our ability to do the following in a timely manner and have a material adverse effect on our operations: · report financial results; · accurately reflect inventory costs; · accept and process customer orders; · receive inventory and ship products; · invoice and collect receivables; · place purchase orders and pay invoices; and · accurately reflect all other business transactions related to the finance, order entry, purchasing, supply chain and human resource processes within the new ERP information system. 19 The restructuring of our Large Scale Manufacturing segment may not have the desired impact on the results of our operations. On November 9, 2006 we announced a restructuring plan designed to improve the efficiency and profitability of our LSM operating segment by eliminating overlap in business processes, organization and project process flow, as well as leveraging existing resources and assets. The key elements of the restructuring plan include workforce reductions, including changes in leadership, as well as non-workforce-related actions such as disposal of underutilized assets, elimination of non-essential operating expenses, and reductions in raw material costs. Most of these initiatives have been implemented by the end of 2006. We expect to realize annual savings of approximately $5 million from the restructuring plan beginning in 2007. The plan as currently constituted, however, may not be sufficient to achieve the desired level of cost savings during the time period indicated. Additional restructuring activities may be required to attain the intended reduction in operating costs and the expected impact on operating margins within our Large Scale Manufacturing segment. Furthermore, the implementation of the restructuring plan could cause disruptions to Large Scale Manufacturing operations that could have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. Our goodwill may become impaired. As of December 31, 2006, we have $35.8 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. We perform an annual assessment of the carrying value of our goodwill for potential impairment using an independent third-party. A determination of impairment is made based upon the estimated future cash flows of the operations associated with goodwill, comparable company multiples and recent transactions involving similar entities. If goodwill is determined to be impaired in the future we would be required to record a charge to our results of operations. For example, during 2004 we recorded goodwill impairment charges totaling $14.5 million. Factors we consider important which could result in an impairment include the following: · significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; · significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; · significant negative industry or economic trends; and · our market capitalization relative to net book value. See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the 2004 impairment charge. We may lose valuable intellectual property if we are unable to protect it. Some of our most valuable assets include patents and trade secrets. Part of our business is developing technologies that we patent and then license to other companies. However, some technologies that we develop may already be patented by other companies. For this and other reasons, we may not be able to obtain patents for each new technology that we develop. Even if we are able to obtain patents, the patents may not sufficiently protect our interest in the technology. Similarly, we may not be able to protect our trade secrets by keeping them confidential. Additionally, protecting our patents and trade secrets may be costly and time consuming. To the extent we are unable to protect intellectual property, our investment in those technologies may not yield the benefits we expected. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing on the intellectual property of others. We could incur significant costs defending such claims. If we are unsuccessful in defending these claims, we may be subject to liability for infringement. 20 Our failure to manage our expansion may adversely affect us. Our business has expanded rapidly in the past several years. Expansion places increased stress on our financial, managerial and human resources. As we expand, we will need to recruit and retain additional highly skilled scientists and technicians. Expansion of our facilities may lead to increased expenses and may divert management attention away from operations. Future acquisitions may disrupt our business and distract our management. We have engaged in a number of acquisitions and strategic investments, and we currently expect to continue to do so. For example, in February 2006, we completed the acquisition of ComGenex, a privately held drug discovery service company in Budapest, Hungary. However, we may not be able to identify additional suitable acquisition candidates, and if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to make such acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business into our existing business in a timely and non-disruptive manner or at all. We may have to devote a significant amount of time and resources to do so. Even with this investment of time and resources, an acquisition may not produce the revenues, earnings or business synergies that we anticipate. If we fail to integrate the acquired business effectively or if key employees of that business leave, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition would be jeopardized. The time, capital, management and other resources spent on an acquisition that fails to meet our expectations could cause our business and financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acquisitions can involve charges of significant amounts related to goodwill that could become impaired and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to realize the benefits of recent acquisitions and strategic investments. We made a strategic investment in Organichem Corporation in December 1999 to facilitate a management buyout of a chemical manufacturing facility from Nycomed Amersham, plc (now GE Healthcare) and completed the full acquisition of Organichem in February 2003. Also during 2003, we made equity investments in two private companies. Under the terms of these agreements, we provided FTE services to each company in exchange for equity securities and fee for service cash payments. One of these companies is currently in the process of raising additional financing. In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of ComGenex, a privately held drug discovery service company in Budapest, Hungary. These transactions may not be as beneficial to us as we currently expect. We record an impairment charge when we believe an investment has experienced a decline in value that is other than temporary. Future adverse changes in market conditions, poor operating results of underlying investments or the investees’ inability to obtain additional financing could result in our inability to recover the carrying value of the investments, thereby requiring an impairment charge in the future. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2004 we recorded a $1.3 million impairment charge related to an investment we made in a drug discovery company. We may not be able to effectively manage our international operations. We established contract research facilities in Singapore and Hyderabad, India in 2005, and have continued to expand our facilities in India in 2006. In February 2006, we completed the acquisition of ComGenex, a privately held drug discovery service company in Budapest, Hungary. There are significant risks associated with the establishment of foreign operations, including, but not limited to: geopolitical risks, foreign currency exchange rates and the impact of shifts in the U.S. and local economies on those rates, compliance with local laws and regulations, the protection of our intellectual property and that of our customers, the ability to integrate our corporate culture with local customs and cultures, and the ability to effectively and efficiently supply our international facilities with the required equipment and materials. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks, these locations may not produce the revenues, earnings, or strategic benefits that we anticipate. 21 We may not be able to recruit and retain the highly skilled employees we need. Our future growth and profitability depends upon the research and efforts of our highly skilled employees, such as our scientists, and their ability to keep pace with changes in drug discovery and development technologies. We compete vigorously with pharmaceutical firms, biotechnology firms, contract research firms, and academic and research institutions to recruit scientists. If we cannot recruit and retain scientists and other highly skilled employees, we will not be able to continue our existing services and will not be able to expand the services we offer to our customers. We may lose one or more of our key employees. Our business is highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, including: · Dr. Thomas E. D’Ambra, our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President; · Mark T. Frost, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer; · Brian D. Russell, our Vice President, Human Resources; · Eric Smart, our Vice President, Business Development; · Dr. Michael P. Trova, our Senior Vice President, Chemistry; · Dr. Bruce J. Sargent, our Vice President, Discovery Research and Development; · Dr. Michael D. Ironside, our Vice President cGMP and Chemical Development; · Dr. Harold Meckler, our Vice President, Science & Technology; and; · Dr. Steven R. Hagen, our Vice President, Quality and Analytical Services. Although we have employment agreements with certain individuals listed above, we do not have employment agreements with all of our key employees. Additionally, the loss of any of our other key employees, including our scientists, may have an adverse effect on our business. The royalties we earn on Allegra will likely be affected by the seasonal nature of allergies. Allergic reactions to plants, pollens and other airborne allergens generally occur during the spring and summer seasons. Therefore, we currently expect the demand for Allegra to be lower during other times of the year. Because Allegra sales change seasonally based on the demand for allergy medicines, our quarter-to-quarter revenues will likely experience fluctuations. We may be held liable for harm caused by drugs that we develop and test. We develop, test and manufacture drugs that are used by humans. If any of the drugs that we develop, test or manufacture harm people, we may be required to pay damages to those persons. Although we carry liability insurance, we may be required to pay damages in excess of the amounts of our insurance coverage. Damages awarded in a product liability action could be substantial and could have a negative impact on our financial condition. We may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. Our research and development processes involve the use of hazardous materials. We are subject to Federal, state and local regulation governing the use, manufacture, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any contamination or injury. We may also 22 incur expenses relating to compliance with environmental laws. Such expenses or liabilities could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We have completed an environmental remediation assessment associated with groundwater contamination at our Rensselaer, New York location. This contamination is associated with past practices at the facility prior to 1990, and prior to AMRI’s investment or ownership of the facility. Ongoing costs associated with the remediation include biannual monitoring and reporting to the State of New York’s Department of Environmental Conservation. Under the remediation plan, we are expected to pay for monitoring and reporting until 2014. Under a 1999 agreement with the facility’s previous owner, our maximum liability under the remediation is $5.5 million. If the State of New York Department of Environmental Conservation finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us which could have a negative impact on our operations. Additionally, if we are unable to enforce our contractual maximum remediation liability of $5.5 million, it may have an adverse affect on our results of operations. If we fail to meet strict regulatory requirements, we could be required to pay fines or even close our facilities. All facilities and manufacturing techniques used to manufacture drugs in the United States must conform to standards that are established by the federal Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. The FDA conducts unscheduled periodic inspections of our facilities to monitor our compliance with regulatory standards. If the FDA finds that we fail to comply with the appropriate regulatory standards, it may impose fines on us or, if the FDA determines that our non-compliance is severe, it may close our facilities. Any adverse action by the FDA would have a negative impact on our operations. Our operations may be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event at our primary facilities. We depend on our laboratories and equipment for the continued operation of our business. Our research and development operations and all administrative functions are primarily conducted at our facilities in Albany and Rensselaer, New York. Although we have contingency plans in effect for natural disasters or other catastrophic events, these events could still disrupt our operations. Even though we carry business interruption insurance policies, we may suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our insurance policies. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event in the Albany area or at our facilities could have a significant negative impact on our operations. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may seriously harm our business. Terrorist attacks or acts of war may cause damage or disruption to our company, our employees, our facilities and our customers, which could significantly impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. For example, the terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks, and other acts of war, including the current war in Iraq, or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. 23 Health care reform could reduce the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for drugs they sell which, in turn, could reduce the amounts that they have available to retain our services. We depend on contracts with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for a majority of our revenues. We therefore depend upon the ability of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to earn enough profit on the drugs they market to devote substantial resources to the research and development of new drugs. Future legislation may limit the prices pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can charge for the drugs they market. Such laws may have the effect of reducing the resources that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can devote to the research and development of new drugs. If pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies decrease the resources they devote to the research and development of new drugs, the amount of services that we perform, and therefore our revenues, could be reduced. The ability of our stockholders to control our policies and effect a change of control of our company is limited, which may not be in your best interests. There are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws which may discourage a third party from making a proposal to acquire us, even if some of our stockholders might consider the proposal to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: · Our certificate of incorporation provides for three classes of directors with the term of office of one class expiring each year, commonly referred to as a “staggered board.” By preventing stockholders from voting on the election of more than one class of directors at any annual meeting of stockholders, this provision may have the effect of keeping the current members of our board of directors in control for a longer period of time than stockholders may desire. · Our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred stock issued, which would allow the board to issue one or more classes or series of preferred stock that could discourage or delay a tender offer or change in control. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, in general, imposes restrictions upon acquirers of 15% or more of our stock. We have adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance the Board’s ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of us is made in the future. Under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan, the Board can in effect prevent a person or group from acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock. Once a shareholder acquires more than 15% of our outstanding Common Stock without Board approval (the “acquiring person”), all other shareholders will have the right to purchase securities from us at a price less than their then fair market value. These subsequent purchases by other shareholders substantially reduce the value and influence of the shares of Common Stock owned by the acquiring person. Our officers and directors have significant control over us and their interests may differ from yours. At February 21, 2007, our directors and officers beneficially owned or controlled approximately 14.9% of our common stock. Individually and in the aggregate, these stockholders significantly influence our management, affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval. In particular, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing an acquisition of us and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 24 Because our stock price may be volatile, our stock price could experience substantial declines. The market price of our common stock has historically experienced and may continue to experience volatility. Our quarterly operating results, changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets and other developments affecting us or our competitors could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the global economic and potential uncertainty, including as a result of the war in Iraq and the international controversy that accompanied it, have created significant additional volatility in the United States capital markets. This volatility and the recent market decline has affected the market prices of securities issued by many companies, often for reasons unrelated to their operating performance or their business prospects, and may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, you will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of your investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased your shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2006 fiscal year. ITEM 