Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risks and uncertainties relating to our business. You should carefully consider the following information about risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC, before you decide to buy or maintain an investment in our common stock. We believe the risks described below are the risks that are material to us as of the filing date of this Annual Report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects would likely be material and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. We do not believe we have, and we are unsure whether we will be able to generate, sufficient funds to sustain our operations through the next twelve months. Our management believes that currently available funds will not be sufficient to sustain our operations at current levels through the next twelve months. The Company has incurred losses from continuing operations during the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 of approximately, $6.6 million, $6.2 million and $2.2 million, respectively, resulting in an accumulated deficit balance of approximately $17.7 million as of June 30, 2007. At June 30, 2007, we had $3.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and a working capital deficiency of $3.6 million. Our ability to continue to operate at current levels depends upon, among other things, our ability to generate sufficient revenue from the sale of our products and services and the receipt of continued funding from our existing short-term and long-term financing sources. In the long-term, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on generating sufficient revenue from product sales and the sale of our services. Our ability to generate significant revenue from any of these or other sources is uncertain. Historically, our operations have not generated sufficient revenue to cover our costs. In the event that our operations do not generate sufficient cash, we could be required to reduce our level of operations while attempting to raise additional working capital. We can give no assurance that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. The failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on us. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations and any intended expansion, to take advantage of business opportunities, to develop or enhance products or services or to otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited, and we might need to significantly restrict or discontinue our operations. 14 The report of our independent registered public accounting firm for the year ended June 30, 2007 contains a qualification relating to our ability to continue as a going concern. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2007 and for the year then ended contains an explanatory paragraph stating that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. This uncertainty may affect our ability to raise additional capital and may also negatively impact our relationships with current and potential suppliers and customers. These are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, the business, operating results or financial condition could be material adversely affected. We have a history of operating losses and expect to sustain losses in the future and may still sustain losses in the future even if we successfully and efficiently integrate the assets of Properties into our business We have experienced significant operating losses in five out of the last six fiscal years. For the year ended June 30, 2007, we had a loss of approximately $6.6 million. We also expect to incur a loss for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008. Managing our growth may affect financial performance Our growth and expansion has required, and will continue to require, increased investment in management and financial personnel, financial management systems and controls, as well as facilities. We intend to continue to expand our business and operations, including entry into new markets, which will place additional strain on our management and operations. Our future operating results will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to broaden our senior management group and administrative infrastructure, and our ability to attract, hire and retain skilled employees. Our success will also depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial control systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. In addition, our future operating results will depend on our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities and expand our customer support operations commensurate with our growth, should such growth occur. If our revenues do not increase in proportion to our operating expenses, our management systems do not expand to meet increasing demands, we fail to attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel, or our management otherwise fails to manage our expansion effectively, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition and operating results. Substantial long-term debt may adversely impact our long-term ability to expand As of June 30, 2007, we had long-term liabilities of $4.4 million. Our ability to satisfy such obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to service our indebtedness. If we are unable to service our indebtedness, we will be forced to examine alternative strategies that may include actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or the sale of assets or seeking additional equity and/or debt financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement any of these strategies even if the need arises. 15 Growth dependent upon unspecified acquisitions and adequate financing Our growth strategy includes the acquisition of existing fuel distributors and truck stops. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify new acquisition candidates or, even if a candidate is identified, that we will have access to the capital necessary to consummate such acquisitions. Furthermore, the acquisition of additional companies involves a number of additional risks. These risks include the diversion of management's attention from our operations, possible difficulties with the assimilation of personnel and operations of acquired companies, the earnings impact associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets, and the potential loss of key employees of acquired companies. The future success of our business will depend upon our ability to manage our growth through acquisitions. The Company’s objective is to grow our customer base through mergers and acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will have the financing or management and operating personnel to accomplish this objective. SEC formal order of private investigation On September 7, 2006, we received a Formal Order of Private Investigation from the SEC pursuant to which we, certain of our officers and a director, were served with subpoenas requesting certain documents and information. The Formal Order authorizes an investigation of possible violations of the anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws with respect to the offer, purchase and sale of our securities and our disclosures or failures to disclose material information in our required filings. While we believe that we did not violate any securities laws and we have cooperated fully with and assisted the SEC in its inquiry, there can be no certainty with regard to the outcome of the investigation and there can be no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect on us. The cost of complying with the SEC investigation may affect our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and ability to raise cash through the sale of debt or equity securities. Trademarks and service marks We believe that our trademarks and service marks have significant value and are important to the marketing of our travel plaza operations, fuel distribution products and services. There can be no assurance, however, that our proprietary marks do not or will not violate the proprietary rights of others, that our marks would be upheld if challenged or that we would not be prevented from using our marks, any of which could have an adverse effect on us and our results of operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will have the financial resources necessary to enforce or defend our trademarks and service marks against infringement. Should there be an infringement, and the Company is unsuccessful in litigation, it may negatively impact the Company’s revenue. Liquidity and Going Concern Uncertainty Our net loss for the year ended June 30, 2007, was $6.6 million, including non-cash charges totaling approximately $4.9 million. The Company has been funding its operations through an asset-based line of credit, the issuance of convertible debentures and the proceeds from the exercise of options and warrants. The Company will need some combination of new financing, restructuring of existing financing, improved receivable collections and/or improved operating results in order to maintain adequate liquidity over the course of the 2008 fiscal year. As of June 30, 2008, the Company had a cash balance of approximately $2.4 million, of which $1.5 million represents an obligation for funds received in advance under the pre-purchase fuel program. At June 30, 2008, the Company had available borrowings through its credit line facility of $0.8 million. In order to meet our liquidity requirements, the Company continues to explore financing opportunities available to it. The Company is pursuing other lines of business, which include expansion of its current commercial business into other products and services such as bio-diesel, solar energy and other energy related home services. The Company is also evaluating all of its business segments for cost reductions, consolidation of facilities and efficiency improvements. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to enhance our liquidity situation. The accompanying consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this filing have been prepared in conformity with United States generally accepted accounting principles, which contemplate continuation of the Company as a going concern and assume realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. The Company has incurred losses from continuing operations during the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 of $6.6 million, $6.2 million and $2.2 million, respectively. Net cash used in operations during the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 was $1.3 million and $1.7 million, respectively. At June 30, 2007, the Company has a working capital deficiency of $3.6 million. These factors raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this filing do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that may be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 16 The Company will require some combination of new financing, restructuring of existing financing, improved receivable collections and/or improved operating results in order to maintain adequate liquidity over the course of the year ending June 30, 2008. Also, see “Timeliness of future SEC filings”, below. There can be no assurance that the financing or the cost saving measures as identified above will be satisfactory in addressing the short-term liquidity needs of the Company. In the event that these plans cannot be effectively realized, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue as a going concern. A limited market for our common stock and "Penny Stock" rules may make buying or selling our common stock difficult Our common stock presently trades on the pink sheets. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of, our securities. In addition, our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. The SEC regulations generally define a penny stock to be an equity that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Unless an exception is available, those regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally institutions). In addition, the broker-dealer must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. Moreover, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to transactions prior to sale. Regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their shares in the secondary market. Our share price may decline due to a large number of shares of our common stock eligible for sale in the public markets. As of June 30, 2008, we had outstanding 14,965,389 shares of common stock and up to 7,127,524 shares issuable upon exercise of the Company’s outstanding options, warrants and convertible debentures. Of the Company’s 14,965,389 outstanding shares, 11,666,667 of these shares were issued in connection with the consummation of the acquisition of the assets of Properties. These shares are restricted and will be held pursuant to Rule 144. With such a substantial number of shares eligible for future sale, our stock price may decline and investors may find it difficult to sell their shares in the open market at or above their basis in the stock. Registration rights agreements On July 12, 2005, the Company consummated a financing with certain purchasers in the sale of $2.5 million of Variable Rate Convertible Debentures (the "Debentures"). The Debentures may be converted at the option of the purchasers into shares of our common stock at a conversion price of $6.50 per share. In addition, the purchasers of these Debentures received five (5) year warrants to purchase an aggregate of 192,308 of common stock at an exercise price of $7.15 per share (the “2005 Warrants”). Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement among the parties, the Company filed a registration statement covering the shares of its common stock that may be issued through the conversion of the Debentures and exercise of the 2005 Warrants. This registration statement was declared effective on December 20, 2005. Since that date, the purchasers converted into shares of the Company’s common stock approximately $2.365 million of the principal of the Debentures. The Company has an obligation to keep this registration statement effective on a continuous basis, which obligation the Company breached when it failed to update the registration statement with new audited consolidated financial statements by October 31, 2006. As a result of this breach, the purchasers of the Debentures are entitled to partial liquidated damages in the amount of 2% of the aggregate purchase price of the Debentures then held by the purchasers (which remaining balance of the Debentures at June 30, 2007 is $132,500) for each month that our breach continues. There are no liquidated damages for not maintaining an effective registration statement covering the 2005 Warrants. The unpaid liquidated damages accrue interest daily based on the rate of 18% per annum. Additionally, the Company’s breach of its registration obligations constitutes a default under the Debentures, which enables the purchasers to declare the Debentures immediately due and payable. As of June 30, 2008, the Company has not received any notice from the purchasers of the Debentures regarding this registration rights default. On July 5, 2006, the Company closed a Securities Purchase Agreement entered into on June 30, 2006 whereby it sold a $1 million convertible term note to Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. ("Laurus"). In conjunction with this issuance the Company agreed that within sixty (60) days from the date of issuance of the convertible term note payable and warrant that it would file a registration statement with the SEC covering the resale of the shares of the Company's convertible term common stock issuable upon conversion of the note and the exercise of the warrant. This registration statement would also cover any additional shares of common stock issuable to Laurus as a result of any adjustment to the fixed conversion price of the note or the exercise price of the warrant. The agreement does not provide any formula for liquidated damages. The Company did not file a registration statement by August 29, 2006 covering the common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible term note and the exercise of warrants issued to Laurus. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company has yet to file that registration statement. Consequently, the Company is in breach of its registration obligations to Laurus. As of June 30, 2008, the Company has not received any notice from Laurus regarding this registration rights default and or the assessment of any penalties that might have resulted therefrom. 17 On August 8, 2006, the Company issued $2,000,000 of convertible debentures to certain investors. In conjunction with this issuance, the Company had agreed to file a registration statement within forty-five (45) days, or by September 22, 2006, covering the resale of the shares of common stock underlying the debentures and warrants issued to the investors, and by October 15, 2006, to have such registration statement declared effective. The registration rights agreement with the investors provides for partial liquidated damages in the case that these registration requirements are not met. From the date of violation, the Company is obligated to pay liquidated damages of 2% per month of the outstanding amount of the convertible debentures, up to a total of 24% of the initial investment, or $0.5 million. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company has not yet filed a registration statement regarding these securities. Accordingly, through June 30, 2008, the Company has incurred a liquidated damages obligation of $0.5 million, none of which has been paid. In addition, the Company is obligated to pay 18% interest per annum on any damage amount not paid in full within 7 (seven) days. Through June 30, 2008, the Company has incurred an interest obligation of $0.1 million, none of which has been paid. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the holders have not waived their rights under this agreement. Additionally, the Company’s breach of its registration obligations constitutes a default under the agreement, which enables the holders to declare the convertible debentures immediately due and payable. As of the filing date of this Annual Report, the Company has not received any notice from the purchasers of the convertible debentures regarding this registration rights default or any other default notice. As of the filing date of this June 30, 2007 Annual Report on From 10-K, , we are in non-compliance with the registration rights requirements of certain financings set forth above covering in the aggregate, 6,698,685 shares of our common stock. Listing of common stock Our common stock is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets under the symbol (“ABLE.PK”). The Company will apply for eligibility for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board as soon as it qualifies for listing after it is in compliance with its required SEC filings. To continue such eligibility, we must file our periodic reports with the SEC on a timely basis. If we fail to file such reports within 10 days of their due date, our stock will cease to be eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board. There can be no assurance that our application for eligibility for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board will be accepted. If we fail to have our common stock eligible for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading volume of our stock may be adversely affected and stockholders may not able to sell any or all of their shares at or above their basis in such stock, which would result in a loss for a selling stockholder. Timeliness of future SEC filings The Company was unable to file this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007, and March 31, 2008 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and the June 30, 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K on a timely basis. The late filings of these documents may adversely affect our ability to raise capital and erode investor confidence. The Company will continue to make every effort to bring all our SEC filings up-to-date. Seasonal factors Our revenues and income are derived from the home heating oil business and our auto and travel plaza service business. Our home heating oil business is seasonal and is a material portion of our business. A substantial portion of the home heating oil business is conducted during the fall and winter months. Weather patterns during the winter months can have a material adverse impact on our revenues. Although temperature levels for the heating season have been relatively stable over time, variations can occur from time to time, and warmer than normal winter weather will adversely affect the results of the Company's fuel oil operations. Our travel plaza services business is much less susceptible to the seasonality issues experienced in our heating oil business. Approximately 60% to 65% of our revenues from our Oil Segment business are earned and received from October through March. During the spring and summer months, revenues from the sale of diesel and gasoline fuels increase, due to the increased use of automobiles and construction apparatus. Fuel pricing and the effect on profitability Disruption of fuel supply and fuel pricing would adversely affect our profitability. Increases in the pricing for fuel and home heating oil will also adversely affect our profit margins associated with our businesses, since we may not be able to pass on our proportional increases to our customers. 18 Other factors which may have a significant effect on fuel prices include: natural disasters, such as those which have devastated the Gulf Coast (areas that are major producers, distributors or refiners of petroleum-based products); major global conflicts, especially those involving the U.S. and/or oil producing countries, strikes or political conflict in oil producing countries and the stability of OPEC and its desire not to disrupt worldwide economies through poor management of fuel supply and pricing. In the future, interruptions in the world fuel markets may cause shortages in, or total curtailment of, fuel supplies. Moreover, a substantial portion of the oil refining capacity in the United States is controlled by major oil companies. These companies, for various reasons (e.g. for new standards imposed by EPA) could in the future decide to limit the amount of fuel sold to independent operators such as us. Any material decrease in the volume of fuel sold for any extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. Similarly, an extended period of instability in the price of fuel could adversely affect our results. Government regulation Federal, state and local laws, particularly laws relating to the protection of the environment and worker safety, can materially affect our operations. The transportation and dispensing of fuel oil, diesel fuel, propane and gasoline is subject to regulation by various federal, state and local agencies, including the U.S. DOT. These regulatory authorities have broad powers and we are subject to regulatory and legislative changes that can affect the economies of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing demand for, and the cost of providing, its services. Additionally, we are subject to random DOT inspections. Any material violation of DOT rules or the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act may result in citations and/or fines on us. In addition, we depend on the supply of petroleum products from the oil and gas industry and, therefore, we may be affected by changing taxes, price controls and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry generally. We cannot determine the extent to which future operations and earnings may be affected by new legislation, new regulations or changes in existing regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. These laws may impose penalties or sanctions for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Such laws and regulations may also expose us to liability for the conduct or conditions caused by others. Sanctions for noncompliance may include revocation of permits, corrective action orders, administrative or civil penalties and criminal prosecution. Certain environmental laws provide for joint and several liabilities for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. In addition, companies may be subject to claims alleging personal injury or property damages as a result of alleged exposure to hazardous substances, as well as damage to natural resources. Potential environmental liability Our fuel distribution is subject to all of the operating hazards and risks that are normally incidental to handling, storing, transporting and delivering fuel oils, gasoline, diesel and propane, which are classified as hazardous materials. We face potential liability for, among other things, fuel spills, gas leaks and negligence in performing environmental clean-ups for our customers. Specifically, we maintain fuel storage facilities on sites owned or leased by us, and could incur significant liability to third parties or governmental entities for damages, clean-up costs and/or penalties in the event of certain discharges into the environment. Such liability can be extreme and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Although we believe that we are in compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that substantial costs for compliance will not be incurred in the future. Any substantial violations of these rules and regulations could have an adverse affect upon our operations. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as more stringent environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies thereunder, could result in additional, presently unquantifiable, costs or liabilities to us. No assurance of adequate insurance protection We maintain insurance policies in such amounts and with coverage and deductibles as our management believes are reasonable and prudent. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance will be adequate to protect us from liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal and property damage arising in the ordinary course of business or that such level of insurance will be maintained by us at adequate levels or will be available at economic prices. Should the Company not be able to negotiate additional coverage at economical rates, it may negatively affect the Company’s consolidated results of operations. 19 Competition from alternative energy sources (for the home heating oil division) Our retail home heating business competes for customers with suppliers of alternate energy products, principally natural gas and electricity. Every year, a small percentage of our oil customers convert to other home heating sources, primarily natural gas. In addition, we may lose additional customers due to conversions during periods in which the cost of its services exceeds the cost of alternative energy sources. If this trend continues and the Company is not able to replace these lost customers through expansion or increased market share, it could cause the Company to lose significant revenues. At this point, Able has not suffered any significant loss as a result of conversion to these alternative energy sources. Concentration of wholesale suppliers for heating oil We purchase our #2 heating oil fuel supplies on the spot market. We currently satisfy our inventory requirements with ten different suppliers, the majority of which have significant domestic fuel sources, and many of which have been suppliers to us for over five years. Our current suppliers are Hess, Conectiv Energy, Mirabito, Fossil Fuel, Burke Petroleum, Leighow Oil, BioHeat of Colorado, Farm & Home, North Jersey Oil and Sunoco, Inc. (R&M). We monitor the market each day and determine when to purchase our oil inventory and from whom. During the year ended June 30, 2007, seven suppliers (Sunoco, Hess, Sprague Energy, Catamount Petroleum, Petrocom Energy, Petron Oil Corp. and Valero Supply and Marketing) provided Able Oil and Able NY with approximately 87% of its heating oil requirements. TransMontaigne Product Services, Inc. provided Able Melbourne with approximately 96% of its diesel fuel product requirements for the year ended June 30, 2007 and Fleetwing provided Able Melbourne with all of its lubricant and related product requirements for the year ended June 30, 2007. Management believes that if our supply of any of the foregoing products was interrupted, we would be able to secure adequate supplies from other sources without a material disruption in its operations. However, there can be no assurance that adequate supplies of such products will be readily available in the future or that the price the Company may be required to pay for such fuel or the credit terms for such purchases will be acceptable to the Company. Furthermore, currently these suppliers extend us credit toward the purchase of our fuel supplies. There can be no assurance that these suppliers will continue to offer us acceptable credit terms. Should the Company need to secure alternative suppliers for these products, the pricing would be approximately the same. Absence of written agreements Approximately 86% of our home heating customers do not have written agreements with us and can terminate services at any time, for any reason. Although we have never experienced a significant loss of our customers, if we were to experience a high rate of terminations, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. While the Travel Plaza Segment has a number of loyalty based supply and services agreements with commercial fleet customers, none of these agreements require the commercial fleet operators to purchase their fuel and services from the Travel Plaza Segment. Risks associated with expansion into new markets A significant element of our future growth strategy involves the expansion of our business into new geographic and product markets. Expansion of our operations depends, among other things, on the success of our marketing strategy in new markets, successfully establishing and operating new locations, hiring and retaining qualified management and other personnel and obtaining adequate financing for vehicle and site purchases and working capital purposes. Dependence on and relative inexperience of key personnel Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the efforts of current key management personnel, including Gregory D. Frost, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Richard A. Mitstifer, President, Daniel L. Johnston, Chief Financial Officer, William Roger Roberts, Chief Operating Officer, Frank Nocito, Executive Vice-President, Louis Aponte, President, Home Heating Oil Segment and John L.Vrabel, Chief Operating Officer, Price Energy Unit. On May 24, 2007, Gregory D. Frost gave notice to the Board of Directors that he was ending his leave of absence as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board and was resuming his duties. Messrs Mitstifer, Johnston, Roberts, Nocito and Westad were appointed to their current positions by the Board of Directors on September 24, 2007. Mr. Aponte was appointed to his position on October 22, 2008. The loss of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend, in large part, upon our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management, technical and sales personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary for our business. 20 Competition Our Oil Segment business is highly competitive. In addition to competition from alternative energy sources, we compete with distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service distributors similar to ours, to those offering delivery of home heating fuel only. Competition with other companies in the retail home heating industry is based primarily on customer service and price. Longstanding customer relationships are typical in the home heating industry. Many companies, including ours, deliver fuel to their customers based upon weather conditions and historical consumption patterns without the customers making an affirmative purchase decision each time fuel is needed. In addition, most companies, including ours, provide equipment repair service on a 24 hour-a-day basis, which tends to build customer loyalty. We compete against companies that may have greater financial resources than ours. As a result, we may experience difficulty in acquiring new retail customers due to existing relationships between potential customers and other retail home heating distributors. If the Oil Segment cannot effectively compete, we would suffer losses of revenue and net income. In addition to competition from much larger, better financed travel plaza operators, the Travel Plaza Segment competes with operators offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service establishments similar to the operations of the Travel Plaza Segment, to deep discount operators offering only fuel. Competition with other companies in the travel plaza industry is based primarily on customer service, location, hours of operation and price. Longstanding customer relationships are typical in the industry. In addition, most travel plaza operators, including the Travel Plaza Segment, provide service on a 24 hour-a-day basis, which tends to build customer loyalty. As a result, the Travel Plaza Segment may experience difficulty in acquiring new customers due to existing relationships between potential customers and their current providers, competitive pricing and new or upgraded travel plaza operators. Weather Weather conditions can impact the demand for home heating fuel. Demand for home heating oil is primarily seasonal, utilized in the colder months of the fall, winter, and early spring. Demand is determined by weather patterns and how cold the temperature gets. Ordinarily, most demand is determined by the measurement of heating degree days, a measurement of the average temperature for the day that is below the mean temperature of 65 degrees fahrenheit. If weather patterns are such that temperatures are warmer than normal, then less heating degree days will be used, and less of the Company’s home heating products will be sold thereby negatively impacting our revenues and net income (loss). Heating oil futures contracts During the period from July 28, 2006 to August 15, 2006, the Company’s PriceEnergy subsidiary entered into futures contracts for #2 heating oil to hedge a portion of its forecasted heating season requirements. The Company purchased 40 contracts through various suppliers for a total of 1,680,000 gallons of #2 heating oil at an average price of $2.20 per gallon. Due to warmer than average temperatures through the heating season (lower than average degree days), as of June 30, 2007, the Company has experienced a substantial drop in fuel consumption and price, resulting in a loss on these contracts. Through June 30, 2007, the Company’s PriceEnergy subsidiary has deposited a total of $923,017 in margin requirements with the broker. Through June 30, 2007, the Company has realized a loss of $926,170 on 40 closed contracts representing 1,680,000 gallons. Risks Particular to the Travel Plaza Segment We are highly dependent on fuel sales which have low margins. During the year ended June 30, 2007, net revenues from our fuel sales accounted for approximately 17.9% of our total net revenues. The volume of fuel sold by us and the profit margins associated with these sales are affected by numerous factors outside of our control, including the condition of the long-haul trucking industry, the supply and demand for these products and the pricing policies of competitors. Fuel sales generate very low gross margins. The U.S. truck stop industry is highly competitive and fragmented, and our competitors may have greater resources or other competitive advantages. In addition to competition from much larger, better financed travel plaza operators, the Travel Plaza Segment competes with operators offering a broad range of services and prices, from full service establishments similar to the operations of the Travel Plaza Segment, to deep discount operators offering only fuel. Competition with other companies in the travel plaza industry is based primarily on customer service, location, hours of operation and price. Longstanding customer relationships are typical in industry. In addition, most travel Plaza operators, including the Travel Plaza Segment, provide service on a 24 hour-a-day basis, which tends to build customer loyalty. As a result, the Travel Plaza Segment may experience difficulty in acquiring new customers due to existing relationships between potential customers and their current providers, competitive pricing and new or upgraded travel plaza operators. 21 The truck stop industry is highly dependent on the financial condition of the trucking industry. Our business is dependent upon the trucking industry in general and upon long-haul trucks in particular. In turn, the trucking industry is dependent on economic factors, such as the level of domestic economic activity and interest rates and operating factors such as fuel prices and fuel taxes, over which we have no control and which could contribute to a decline in truck travel. The long-haul trucking business is also a mature industry that has historically been susceptible to recessionary downturns. Available data indicate that diesel consumption by the trucking industry has grown more slowly than trucking ton-miles, as technological improvements in truck engines have increased their fuel efficiency. In addition, many small trucking companies have filed for bankruptcy protection in recent years. A decline in operations by the long-haul trucking industry would adversely affect us. Our profitability can be significantly impacted by cyclical factors beyond our control such as decreases in manufacturing output. The volume of truck shipments is in part dependent on changes in manufacturing output. Sustained decreases in manufacturing production can significantly reduce truck traffic, which in turn reduces fuel purchases and visits to our Plazas, and negatively impacts our results of operations. A domestic terrorist incident affecting the trucking industry could adversely affect our business. A domestic terrorist incident, particularly an incident involving a truck, could produce adverse effects on our business in several ways, including: • a reduction in the volume of truck traffic for more than a brief period; • the bankruptcy of certain trucking companies; and • the imposition of additional regulations affecting truck traffic, increasing the expenses of truck operations and businesses that service trucks or provide overnight facilities for trucks and truck drivers, such as our business. For example, additional fences or other security for parked trucks might be required. The occurrence of any of these effects could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations and the cost of compliance with these requirements could negatively impact the results of our operations. A significant portion of our business consists of storing and dispensing petroleum products, activities that are subject to increasingly stringent regulation by both the federal and state governments. Moreover, governmental authorities can impose significant fines and penalties on us for any alleged noncompliance with environmental requirements. In addition, under certain environmental laws, private parties can bring lawsuits against us for any property damage or personal injury that allegedly is caused by our operations. We may incur increased expenditures if additional requirements are imposed by federal and state governments, or we fail to comply with environmental requirements and are fined or penalized, or if we must defend or settle lawsuits that might be brought by private parties. In addition, under various environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances (including petroleum and petroleum products) on, under, in, or migrating from such property. Certain laws impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, persons who arrange, or are deemed to have arranged, for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment site, regardless of whether such site is owned or operated by such person and regardless of whether the original disposal or treatment activity accorded with applicable requirements. As a result of our business and the quantity of petroleum products we handle, there can be no assurance that hazardous substance contamination does not exist or that material liability will not be imposed in the future for the remediation of such contamination. 22 A disruption in the supply of fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We would be adversely affected in the event of a disruption in our supply of fuel. In addition, sharp increases in fuel prices at truck stop plazas have historically tended to lead to temporary declines in fuel margins. Fuel prices have risen sharply in the recent past and may continue to rise. Factors which have had significant effects on fuel prices include: the interaction of several factors including low inventories, high demand caused by a spike in the cost of natural gas, major global conflicts, especially those involving the U.S. and/or oil producing countries, strikes or political conflict in oil producing countries, intervention by OPEC in the form of restricted output and changes in output by domestic oil refineries. In the future, interruptions in world fuel markets may cause shortages in, or total curtailment of, fuel supplies. Moreover, a substantial portion of the oil refining capacity in the United States is controlled by major oil companies. These companies could in the future decide to limit the amount of fuel sold to independent operators like us. Although our current suppliers provide fuel to us, a significant portion of our fuel needs continues to be supplied from third-parties contracted by them. In addition, any new standards that the EPA may impose on refiners that would necessitate changes in the refining process could limit the volume of petroleum products available from refiners in the future. A material decrease in the volume of fuel sold for an extended time period would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, an extended period of instability in the price of fuel could adversely affect our results. In addition, our patronage by customers desiring to purchase fuel accounts for a significant portion of customer traffic and has a direct impact on the revenues and profitability of our other operations, including our restaurant and non-fuel operations. Accordingly, any significant reductions in fuel supplies or other reductions in fuel volume would materially adversely affect our results. Weather or seasonal issues have an insignificant impact on the Company’s Travel Plaza Segment. While leisure travel has a tendency to moderate somewhat in the winter months in the geographic areas in which we operate, revenue related to the leisure traveler is relatively insignificant compared to fuel and services related revenue generated by our professional driver customers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Please refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings for disclosure relating to matters involving the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). 