Risk factors include but are not limited to the following: international, national and local general economic, political and market conditions; intense competition among sellers of footwear for consumers; changes in fashion trends and consumer demands; popularity of particular designs and categories of products; the level of sales during the spring, back-to-school and holiday selling seasons; the ability to anticipate, identify, interpret or forecast changes in fashion trends, consumer demand for our products and the various market factors described above; the ability of our company to maintain its brand image; the ability to sustain, manage and forecast our company’s growth and inventories; the ability to secure and protect trademarks, patents and other intellectual property; the loss of any significant customers, decreased demand by industry retailers and cancellation of order commitments; potential disruptions in manufacturing related to overseas sourcing and concentration of production in China, including, without limitation, difficulties associated with political instability in China, the occurrence of a natural disaster or outbreak of a pandemic disease in China, or electrical shortages, labor shortages or work stoppages that may lead to production delays; increased costs of freight and transportation to meet delivery deadlines; violation of labor or other laws by our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers or licensees; potential imposition of additional duties, tariffs or other trade restrictions; business disruptions due to energy shortages or natural disasters such as an earthquake due to the location of our domestic warehouse, headquarters and a substantial number of our retail stores in California; changes in business strategy or development plans; the ability to obtain additional capital to fund operations, finance growth and service debt obligations; the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; compliance with the financial covenants in our long-term debt agreements and $150 million line of credit facility; compliance with recent corporate governance legislation including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; the disruption, expense and potential liability associated with existing or unanticipated future litigation; and other factors referenced or incorporated by reference in this report and other reports filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this annual report may include additional factors that could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and we cannot predict all such risk factors, nor can we assess the impact of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. Investors should also be aware that while we do, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, we do not disclose any material non-public information or other confidential commercial information to them. Accordingly, individuals should not assume that we agree with any statement or report issued by any analyst, regardless of the content of the report. Thus, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not our responsibility. 1 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We were incorporated in California in 1992 and reincorporated in Delaware in 1999. Throughout this annual report, we refer to Skechers U.S.A., Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as “we,” “us,” “our,” “our company” and “Skechers” unless otherwise indicated. Our Internet website address is www.skechers.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Form 3’s, 4’s and 5’s filed on behalf of directors, officers and 10% stockholders, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You can learn more about us by reviewing such filings on our website or at the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. GENERAL We design and market Skechers-branded contemporary footwear for men, women and children under seven individual brand names. Our footwear reflects a combination of style, quality and value that appeals to a broad range of consumers. In addition to Skechers-branded lines, we also offer seven uniquely branded designer, fashion and street-focused footwear lines for men, women and children. These lines are branded and marketed separately from Skechers and appeal to specific audiences. Our brands are sold through department stores, specialty stores, athletic retailers, and boutiques as well as our e-commerce website and our own retail stores. We operate 34 concept stores, 56 factory outlet stores and 32 warehouse outlet stores in the United States, and 10 concept stores and two warehouse outlets internationally. Our objective is to profitably grow our operations worldwide while leveraging our recognizable Skechers brand through our strong product lines, innovative advertising and diversified distribution channels. We seek to offer consumers a vast array of fashionable footwear that satisfies their active, casual, dress casual and dress footwear needs. Our core consumers are style-conscious 12- to 24-year-old men and women attracted to our youthful brand image and fashion forward designs. Many of our best-selling and core styles are also developed for children with colors and materials that reflect a playful image appropriate for this demographic. We believe that brand recognition is an important element for success in the footwear business. We have aggressively promoted our brands through comprehensive marketing campaigns for men, women and children. For Skechers in 2005, we capitalized on the popularity of American Idol winner and rising star Carrie Underwood in our domestic and international print advertising, and launched television sponsor spots for many of our Skechers branded lines as well as some of our uniquely branded lines. For Mark Nason, Michelle K and 310 Motoring, we also developed print ads, including ads featuring multi-platinum hip hop recording artist The Game for his signature 310 footwear line. Our Marc Ecko Footwear is supported through print ads developed by Marc Ecko for the apparel lines Ecko Unltd. and Ecko Red. Our strategy continues to focus on print advertisements in targeted publications such as GQ, Lucky, Details, Seventeen, Maxim, People, Teen People, Teen Vogue, Slam, In Style, and many others. Since we introduced our first line, Skechers USA Sport Utility Footwear, in December 1992, we have expanded our product offering and grown our net sales while substantially increasing the breadth and penetration of our account base. Each of our seven Skechers-branded product lines benefits from the Skechers reputation for contemporary and progressive styling, quality, comfort and affordability. We have seven product lines currently in the marketplace that are not branded with the Skechers name that benefit from our marketing support, quality management and expertise. To promote innovation and brand relevance, we manage our product lines separately by utilizing dedicated sales and design teams. Our product lines share back office services in order to limit our operating expenses and fully utilize our management’s vast experience in the footwear industry. SKECHERS BRANDS Skechers USA. Our Skechers USA category for men and women includes five types of footwear: (i) Casuals, (ii) Dress Casuals, (iii) Comfort (for men only), (iv) Outdoor (for men only) and (v) Sport Fusion. This category is generally sold through mid-tier retailers, department stores and some footwear specialty shops. • For men, the Casuals category includes “black and brown” boots and shoes that generally have a rugged urban design — some with industrial-inspired fashion features. This category is defined by the heavy-lugged outsole and value-oriented materials employed in the uppers as well as leather uppers. For women, the Casuals category includes basic “black and brown” oxfords 2 Table of Contents and slip-ons, lug outsole boots, and casual sandals. The women’s line also uses value-oriented materials, but a growing number of styles may also be designed in leather. We design and price both the men’s and women’s categories to appeal primarily to young persons with broad acceptance across age groups. • For men, the Dress Casuals category is comprised of basic “black and brown” men’s shoes that feature shiny leathers and dress details, but still utilize the heavy-lugged outsole and value-oriented materials. This category is designed and priced for young men seeking their first work or evening shoe. For women, the Dress Casual line is comprised of more stylized boots and shoes, which may include leather uppers, shearling or faux fur lining or trim, or which in general may be more trend-influenced. • Skechers Comfort is a line of trend-right casuals for men who want all-day comfort without compromising style. Characteristics of the line include comfortable outsoles, cushioned insoles and quality leather uppers. A category with unique features, we market and package the Skechers Comfort styles in a shoe box that is distinct from that of other categories in the Skechers USA line of footwear. • Our Outdoor styles for men primarily consist of hiker-influenced constructions including boots and shoes. While this category includes many technical performance features, we market this category of footwear primarily on the basis of style and comfort. Outsoles generally consist of molded and contoured hardened rubber. Many designs include gussetted tongues to prevent penetration of water and debris, cushioned mid-soles, motion control devices such as heel cups, water-resistant or water-proof construction and materials, and more durable hardware such as metal D-rings instead of eyelets. Uppers are generally constructed of heavily oiled nubuck and full-grain leathers. We market and package the Outdoor styles in a shoe box that is distinct from that of other categories in the Skechers USA line of footwear. • Our Sport Fusion line is comprised of low-profile, sport-influenced Euro casuals targeted at trend-conscious young men and women. With many outsoles adopted from our men’s Sport and women’s Active lines, this line primarily features leather or nubuck uppers, but may also include mesh. Skechers Sport. Our Skechers Sport footwear for men and women includes: (i) Joggers, Trail runners, Sport hikers, Terrainers, (ii) Performance (for men only), (iii) Street Casuals and (iv) Sport Sandals. Our Skechers Sport category is distinguished by its technical performance-inspired looks; however, we generally do not promote the technical performance features of these shoes. Skechers Sport is typically sold through specialty shoe stores, department stores and athletic footwear retailers. • Our Jogger, Trail Runner, Sport Hiker and cross trainer-inspired Terrainer designs are lightweight constructions that include cushioned heels, polyurethane midsoles, phylon and other synthetic outsoles, as well as leather or synthetic uppers such as durabuck, cordura and nylon mesh. Careful attention is devoted to the design, pattern and construction of the outsoles, which vary greatly depending on the intended use. This category features earth tones and athletic-inspired hues with contrasting pop colors such as lime green, orange and red in addition to traditional athletic white. • The Performance category is comprised of multi-purpose running shoes that are marketed as men’s lifestyle athletic footwear. Some styles include 3M reflective accents, breathable upper construction, quality leathers, abrasion-resistant toe and heel cap, removable moisture wicking molded EVA sock liner, outsole forefoot flex grooves for improved flexibility, non-marking rubber lugs with impact dispersment technology (IDT), aggressive all terrain traction lugs, external torsion stabilizer and tuned dual-density molded ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA) midsole with pronation control. • Street Casual incorporates lower profiles, classic details and skate, street and fusion influences in a collection of essential, basic casual sneakers. The uppers are designed in leather, suede, nubuck, canvas and/or mesh. Street Casual is targeted to young consumers, but also appeals to a broader demographic. • Our Sport Sandals are primarily designed from existing Skechers Sport outsoles and may include many of the same sport features as our sneakers with the addition of new technologies geared toward making a comfortable sport sandal. Sport sandals are designed as seasonal footwear for the consumer who already wears our Skechers Sport sneakers. Skechers Active. A natural companion to Skechers Sport, Skechers Active has grown from a casual everyday line into a complete line of fusion and sport fusion sneakers for females of all ages. Marked by low-profile outsoles, the Active line is available in a multitude of colors as well as solid white or black, in fabrics, leathers and meshes, and with various closures – traditional laces, zig-zag straps and cross straps, among others. The line also now includes Mary Jane, sandal and open back styles. Active sneakers are typically retailed through specialty casual shoe stores and department stores. 3 Table of Contents Somethin’ Else from Skechers. Targeting 12- to 25-year-old trend-savvy females, the Somethin’ Else from Skechers line is focused on current fashions through an array of stylish shoes, boots, heels and sandals. With a growing offering that includes flats, heeled boots, clogs and sport-influenced looks, the line is designed to meet junior consumers’ needs – from school to work to weekends – and is a complementary line for women who already wear Skechers USA, Skechers Active and Skechers Sport. Many styles are made from more affordable materials such as man-made leather, offering more young consumers the opportunity to buy trend-right shoes at a reasonable price. This line is typically sold through department and specialty stores. Collection by Skechers. The Collection by Skechers line is comprised of stylish dress shoes, dress casual shoes and sandals for the young fashion-forward male consumer. The looks include classic tailored and fashion-forward square, round and pointed lasts in a variety of styles, such as bicycle toes, monk straps, wingtips, oxfords, cap toes, demi-boots and boots. The outsoles project a sleeker profile and may be either leather or man-made. The uppers are quality leathers including glossy, box, distressed and aniline. Collection by Skechers is sold through specialty casual shoe stores and department stores. Skechers Work. Expanding on our heritage of cutting-edge utility footwear, Skechers Work offers a complete line of men’s and women’s sport oxfords, field boots, trail hikers and athletic shoes. The Skechers Work line includes the (i) Lightweight Aluminum Series (“LAS”), (ii) Steel Toe, (iii) Occupational and (iv) Slip-Resistant categories, which may feature electrical hazard, electrostatic-dissipative and slip-resistant technologies, as well as breathable, seam-sealed HydroguardTM waterproof membranes. Our LAS, Steel Toe and Occupational products have been independently tested and certified to meet ASTM F 2412/2413-05; CSA Z195-02 or SATRA PM 77 standards, and our slip-resistant soles have been tested pursuant to the James testing method for slip resistance. The uppers are in high-quality leather, nubuck, truebuck and durabuck. Constructed on high-abrasion, long wearing soles, the line is designed for men and women with jobs that require certain safety requirements. Skechers Work is primarily marketed through business-to-business channels, but is also available direct-to-consumers and through select department and specialty stores. • Our LAS trail hikers and sport oxfords are exclusively designed for industry professionals who need lightweight, all-day footwear protection. Their innovative design includes a durable, ultra-lightweight safety toe, torque flex construction and high-grade materials for superior strength and comfort. • Our Steel Toe athletic sneakers, boots, hikers, oxfords and sport oxfords, which are ideal for environments requiring safety footwear. These durable styles feature breathable lining, oil and abrasion resistant outsoles and steel toe design for optimal protection, all-day comfort and prolonged durability. • Our Occupational boots, oxfords and hikers offer versatile features for those requiring utility, safety and comfort features, but who also want style. Designed with an array of textured uppers and colorways, the footwear capitalizes on function and comfort – from breathable lining to contoured insoles and abrasion-resistant outsoles for prolonged wear. • Our Slip-Resistant boots, athletics, sport and slip-on oxfords, and clogs are ideal for the service industry. These shoes offer comfort and safety in dry or wet conditions by utilizing breathable lining and James-tested slip, oil and abrasion resistant outsoles for optimal safety and reliability. Skechers Kids. The Skechers Kids line includes: (i) Skechers Kids, which is a range of infants, toddlers, boys and girls boots, shoes and sneakers; (ii) S-Lights, which is lighted footwear for toddlers, boys and girls and (iii) Somethin’ Else from Skechers for Girls, which is trend-inspired boots, shoes, sandals and dress sneakers. Skechers Kids and Somethin’ Else from Skechers for Girls are comprised primarily of shoes that are designed as “takedowns” of their adult counterparts, allowing the younger set the opportunity to wear the same popular styles as their older siblings and schoolmates. This “takedown” strategy maintains the product’s integrity by offering premium leathers, hardware and outsoles without the attendant costs involved in designing and developing new products. In addition, we adapt current fashions from our men’s and women’s lines by modifying designs and choosing colors and materials that are more suitable for the playful image that we have established in the children’s footwear market. Skechers Kids shoes are available at department stores and specialty and athletic retailers. • The Skechers Kids line includes embellishments or adornments such as fresh colors and fabrics from our Skechers adult shoes. Some of these styles are also adapted for toddlers with softer, more pliable outsoles, and for infants with soft, leather-sole crib shoes. • S-Lights is a line of sneakers and sandals with a combined pattern of lights on the outsole and other areas of the shoes. 4 Table of Contents • Somethin’ Else from Skechers for Girls is a line of trend-right sandals, shoes, boots, street sneakers and dress casuals for young girls. For this line, we have taken many of our successful junior bottoms and tailored them to a younger demographic, lowering platforms and wedges as needed and creating all new upper treatments and colors on select styles. Many styles are made from more affordable materials such as man-made leather, offering young consumers the opportunity to buy stylish shoes at affordable prices. FASHION AND STREET BRANDS The Fashion and Street Division and its brands are marketed separately from SKECHERS. Rhino Red and Unltd. by Marc Ecko. Rhino Red is a line of women’s classic and fashion-forward fusion sneakers and casual and dress causal heels and boots. Unltd. by Marc Ecko is a line of men’s street-inspired traditional sneakers, fusion sneakers and urban-focused casuals. Targeted to the street-savvy 18- to 34-year-old consumer, the footwear reflects Ecko Unltd.’s men’s apparel and the Ecko Red women’s apparel, and effectively utilizes the globally recognized Rhino logo on the majority of sneakers and casuals. Unltd. by Marc Ecko for boys and Rhino Red for girls sneaker lines primarily consist of takedowns from the adult Marc Ecko footwear lines with additional or different colorways geared toward children and that reflect the boys’ and girls’ Ecko Unltd. and Ecko Red clothing. The licensed brands are sold through select department stores and specialty retailers. 310 Motoring. The 310 Motoring footwear collection utilizes top-quality leathers, a fashion-forward approach to design and comfort, and materials that are derived from 310 Motoring’s customized cars, including wood burl and carbon fiber. A multi-tiered approach, the line consists of high-end, cutting-edge athletics, heritage to high-design boots and shoes, and sophisticated driving-inspired shoes and boots for men and boys. 310 Motoring footwear is available in select department stores, specialty retailers and urban independents. In the last week of 2005, we launched multi-platinum hip hop recording artist The Game’s signature 310 sneaker, known as Hurricane by 310, in select specialty athletic stores. The initial Hurricane street athletic sneaker consists of one color and one style. Additional colors are planned to launch in the first quarter of 2006. Michelle K. Targeted toward stylish 18- to 34-year-old women, Michelle K is a signature designer line of fashion forward fusion sneakers, sporty boots and sandals. The Michelle K line is marked by a unique combination of materials, textures and colors. The line is available in select upscale department stores and better boutiques. It is sold internationally under the name Skechers by designer Michelle K. This brand also includes Michelle K Girl, a fashion-forward line, primarily comprised of fusion casual sneakers as well as boots and sandals marked by a unique combination of colors, materials, textures and embellishments. Mark Nason and Siren by Mark Nason. Mark Nason is a sophisticated and fashion forward footwear collection, marketed to style-conscious men, designed to complement designer denim and dress casual wear. Primarily crafted and constructed in Italy, the Mark Nason collection is comprised of classic and modern boots, shoes and sandals with distinctive profiles and luxurious hand-distressed leathers. The Mark Nason line distinguishes itself with high quality individual styling and may utilize unique materials such as premium leathers, etched and tattooed leathers, hand-treated, hand-scraped and hand-cut leathers, hand-treated leather uppers and soles, snakeskin and eel skin. Siren by Mark Nason, an uninhibited designer boot line for discerning women, was launched in the fourth quarter of 2005 as a response to the reaction of women to the men’s Mark Nason collection. The ultimate accompaniment to designer denim and casual couture, the line’s boots are fueled with bold profiles, alluring details and distinct textures. Handcrafted in Italy, the boots utilize premium leathers, hand-treated details, leather outsoles, and some may include snakeskin and other exotic materials. Mark Nason and Siren by Mark Nason are available in upscale department stores and better boutiques. Kitson. Launched in the fourth quarter of 2005, Kitson footwear is a line of fashion sneakers and sandals targeted to hip and trend-savvy women and girls. A licensed brand, Kitson is an ultra-hip Los Angeles boutique known for sparking the hottest and newest trends, and where young Hollywood celebrities come to shop. Kitson goods are must-have merchandise, featured in leading style and lifestyle magazines. Kitson footwear is available at the Kitson retail boutique, upscale department stores and other boutiques. PRODUCT DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT Our principal goal in product design is to generate new and exciting footwear in all of our product lines with contemporary and progressive styles and comfort-enhancing performance features. Targeted to the active, youthful and style-savvy, we design most new styles to be fashionable and marketable to the 12- to 24-year old consumer, while substantially all of our lines appeal to the broader 5 Table of Contents range of 5- to 40-year-old consumers, with an exclusive selection for infants and toddlers. While many of our shoes have performance features, we generally do not position our shoes in the marketplace as technical performance shoes. We believe that our products’ success is related to our ability to recognize trends in the footwear markets and to design products that anticipate and accommodate consumers’ ever-evolving preferences. We are able to quickly translate the latest footwear trends into stylish, quality footwear at a reasonable price by analyzing and interpreting current and emerging lifestyle trends. Lifestyle trend information is compiled and analyzed by our designers from various sources, including the review and analysis of modern music, television, cinema, clothing, alternative sports and other trend-setting media; traveling to domestic and international fashion markets to identify and confirm current trends; consulting with our retail customers for information on current retail selling trends; participating in major footwear trade shows to stay abreast of popular brands, fashions and styles; and subscribing to various fashion and color information services. In addition, a key component of our design philosophy is to continually reinterpret and develop our successful styles in our brand’s image. The footwear design process typically begins about nine months before the start of a season. Our products are designed and developed primarily by our in-house design staff. To promote innovation and brand relevance, we utilize dedicated design teams, who report to our senior design executives, and focus on each of the men’s, women’s and children’s categories. In addition, we utilize outside design firms on an item-specific basis to supplement our internal design efforts. The design process is extremely collaborative, as members of the design staff frequently meet with the heads of retail, merchandising, sales, production and sourcing to further refine our products to meet the particular needs of the target market. After a design team arrives at a consensus regarding the fashion themes for the coming season, the designers then translate these themes into our products. These interpretations include variations in product color, material structure and embellishments, which are arrived at after close consultation with our production department. Prototype blueprints and specifications are created and forwarded to our manufacturers for a design prototype. The design prototypes are then sent back to our design teams. Our major retail customers may also review these new design concepts. Customer input not only allows us to measure consumer reaction to the latest designs, but also affords us an opportunity to foster deeper and more collaborative relationships with our customers. We also occasionally order limited production runs that may initially be tested in our concept stores. By working closely with store personnel, we obtain customer feedback that often influences product design and development. Our design teams can easily and quickly modify and refine a design based on customer input. Generally, the production process can take six months to nine months from design concept to commercialization. SOURCING Factories. Our products are produced by independent contract manufacturers located primarily in China and, to a lesser extent, in Italy, Vietnam, Brazil and various other countries. We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities as we believe that the use of independent manufacturers substantially increases our production flexibility and capacity while reducing capital expenditures and avoiding the costs of managing a large production work force. When possible, we seek to use manufacturers that have previously produced our footwear, which we believe enhances continuity and quality while controlling production costs. We attempt to monitor our selection of independent factories to ensure that no one manufacturer is responsible for a disproportionate amount of our merchandise. We source product for styles that account for a significant percentage of our net sales from at least four different manufacturers. During 2005, we had four manufacturers that accounted for approximately 59.7% of total purchases. One manufacturer accounted for 32.4%, and one other accounted for 11.2% of our total purchases during the year ended December 31, 2005. To date, we have not experienced difficulty in obtaining manufacturing services. We finance our production activities in part through the use of interest-bearing open purchase arrangements with certain of our Asian manufacturers. These facilities currently bear interest at a rate between 0% and 1.5% for 30 to 60 days financing, depending on the factory. We believe that the use of these arrangements affords us additional liquidity and flexibility. We do not have any long-term contracts with any of our manufacturers; however, we have long-standing relationships with many of our manufacturers and believe our relationships to be good. We closely monitor sales activity after initial introduction of a product in our concept stores to determine whether there is substantial demand for a style, thereby aiding us in our sourcing decisions. Styles that have substantial consumer appeal are highlighted in upcoming collections or offered as part of our periodic style offerings, while less popular styles can be discontinued after only a limited production run. We believe that sales in our concept stores can also help forecast sales in national retail stores, and 6 Table of Contents we share this sales information with our wholesale accounts. Sales, merchandising, production and allocations management analyze historical and current sales and market data from our wholesale account base and our own retail stores to develop an internal product quantity forecast that allows us to better manage our future production and inventory levels. For those styles with high sell-through percentages, we maintain an in-stock position to minimize the time necessary to fill customer orders by placing orders with our manufacturers prior to the time we receive customers’ orders for such footwear. Production Oversight. To safeguard product quality and consistency, we oversee the key aspects of production from initial prototype manufacture through initial production runs to final manufacture. Monitoring of all production is performed in the United States by our in-house production department and in Asia through an approximately 165-person staff working from our offices in China and Taiwan. We believe that our Asian presence allows us to negotiate supplier and manufacturer arrangements more effectively, decrease product turnaround time and ensure timely delivery of finished footwear. In addition, we require our manufacturers to certify that neither convicted, forced or indentured labor (as defined under U.S. law) nor child labor (as defined by the manufacturer’s country) is used in the production process, and that compensation will be paid according to local law and that the factory is in compliance with local safety regulations. Quality Control. We believe that quality control is an important and effective means of maintaining the quality and reputation of our products. Our quality control program is designed to ensure that not only finished goods meet our established design specifications, but also that all goods bearing our trademarks meet our standards for quality. Our quality control personnel located in China and Taiwan perform an array of inspection procedures at various stages of the production process, including examination and testing of prototypes of key raw materials prior to manufacture, samples and materials at various stages of production and final products prior to shipment. Our employees are on-site at each of our major manufacturers to oversee production. For some of our lower volume manufacturers, our staff is on-site during significant production runs or we will perform unannounced visits to their manufacturing sites to further monitor compliance with our manufacturing specifications. ADVERTISING AND MARKETING With a marketing philosophy of “Unseen, Untold, Unsold,” we take a targeted approach to marketing to drive traffic, build brand recognition and properly position our diverse lines within the marketplace. Senior management is directly involved in shaping our image and the conception, development and implementation of our advertising and marketing activities. The focus of our marketing plan is print and television advertising, which is supported by outdoor, trend-influenced marketing, public relations promotions and in-store support. In addition, we utilize celebrity endorsees in our advertisements. We also believe our Internet websites and trade shows are effective marketing tools to both consumers and corporate accounts. We have historically budgeted advertising as a percentage projected net sales. In 2005, we advertised in a more efficient manner while net sales increased, which resulted in advertising and marketing expenditures equaling 5.8% of our annual net sales, which was below our historical range of 8% to 10% of annual net sales. Advertising. The majority of our advertising is conceptualized by our in-house design team. In 2005, we utilized the creative services of an outside photographer to also design several key ads, from which our design team was able to create additional advertisements and marketing materials. This allowed us to take a new approach to our advertising while also maintaining control and integrity of the Skechers brand by building a relationship with one outside creative source yet still crafting ads in-house. We believe that our advertising strategies, methods and creative campaigns are directly related to our success. Through our lifestyle and image-driven advertising, we generally seek to build and increase brand awareness by linking the Skechers brand and our other brands to youthful, contemporary lifestyles and attitudes rather than to market a particular footwear product. In addition to our compelling Skechers lifestyle ads, we have also created product specific ads for our men’s lines to appeal to both men and women who purchase footwear for men. Our ads are designed with a broad approach to eliminate single categorization and to provide merchandise flexibility and to facilitate the “brands and product designs” direction of evolving footwear fashions and consumer preferences. To further build brand awareness and influence consumer spending, we have selectively signed endorsement agreements with celebrities whom we believed would reach new markets. Through the first half of 2005, we continued our international endorsement agreement with global superstar Christina Aguilera for our women’s lines. When the agreement expired at the end of June 2005, we signed 2005 American Idol winner and rising star Carrie Underwood to appear in Skechers advertisements in support of our women’s lines. In recent years, we had similar endorsement agreements for Skechers with singer and actress Britney Spears, professional basketball player and actor Rick Fox, and actors Robert Downey, Jr., Matt Dillon and Rob Lowe. We also signed multi-platinum hip hop superstar The Game as well as the Oscar-nominated actor Terrence Howard to support our 310 Motoring brand. From time to 7 Table of Contents time, we may sign other celebrities to endorse our brand name and image in order to strategically market our products among specific consumer groups in the future. In addition to advertising our Skechers branded lines through men’s, women’s and children’s ads, we also support our Michelle K, Mark Nason and 310 Motoring lines through individual unique print advertisements. For Michelle K and Mark Nason, we have focused on key-selling styles in product-driven ads that captured the brands’ essence. For 310 Motoring, we have created several lifestyle ads that reflected the high-end roots of this automotive inspired line, including ads featuring multi-platinum hip hop recording artist The Game for his signature 310 footwear line. Unltd. by Marc Ecko and Rhino Red advertisements are created and implemented by Ecko.Complex, LLC dba Ecko Unltd., the parent company of Ecko Unltd. and Ecko Red, which allows for exposure of our Mark Ecko footwear brands without us having to incur significant advertising costs. With a targeted approach, our print ads appear regularly in popular fashion and lifestyle consumer publications, such as GQ, Cosmopolitan, Elle, Lucky, Seventeen, Teen People, Maxim, Slam, Rolling Stone, and Complex, as well as in weekly publications such as People, Us Weekly, Star, and TV Guide, among others. Our television commercials are primarily produced in-house and air during key selling seasons. In 2005, we created product-driven sponsor spots for Skechers Sport Fusion for men and women, Skechers Sport for men, Skechers Work, and Skechers for boys and girls, as well as for Michelle K Girl and 310 Motoring. We have found these to be a cost-effective way to advertise during key national and cable programming. Our in-house media buyer strategically selects the ideal programs and geographic areas for our commercials for maximum consumer impact. Outdoor. In an effort to reach consumers where they shop and in high traffic areas as they travel to and from work or while running errands, we launched a multi-level outdoor campaign that included 800-plus mall kiosks, billboards, transportation systems and telephone kiosks. We believe these are effective and efficient ways to reach a broad range of consumers and leave a lasting impression of our Skechers branded lines. Trend-Influenced Marketing/Public Relations. Our public relations team’s objectives are to secure product placement in key fashion magazines, place our footwear on the feet of trend-setting celebrities, and garner positive and accurate press on our company. Through our commitment to aggressively promote our upcoming styles, our products are often featured in leading fashion and pop culture magazines, as well as in select films and popular television shows. Our footwear has been prominently displayed and referenced on news and magazine shows including The Today Show, Good Day L.A., Country Music Television, and E! Style; and on entertainment shows, including Law & Order, Fear Factor, and The Dr. Phil Show, among others. We have also amassed an array of prominent product placements in magazines including Lucky, Seventeen, Teen People, Teen Vogue, CosmoGirl, InStyle, Stuff, Maxim, Slam, Cargo, Dime and Footwear News. In addition, our brands have been associated with cutting edge events and select celebrities, and our product has been seen worn by trend-setters like Denis Leary, Eva Longoria, Black Eyed Peas, Big & Rich, Sugarland, Drew Barrymore, John Corbett, Halle Berry, Ice-T, Paris Hilton and Jamie Foxx, among others. Promotions. By applying creative sales techniques via a broad spectrum of mediums, our marketing team seeks to build brand recognition and drive traffic to Skechers’ retail stores and our retail partners’ locations. Skechers’ promotional strategies have encompassed in-store specials, concert promotions, charity events, product tie-ins and giveaways, and collaborations with national retailers and radio stations. Our imaginative promotions are consistent with Skechers’ imaging and lifestyle. Visual Merchandising. Our in-house visual merchandising team supports wholesale accounts, distributors and our retail stores by developing displays that effectively leverage our products at the point of purchase. Our point-of-purchase display items include signage, graphics, displays, counter cards, banners and other merchandising items. These materials mirror the look and feel of our national print advertising in order to reinforce brand image at the point-of-purchase. Our visual merchandising coordinators (“VMC’s”) work with our sales force and directly with our customers to ensure better sell-through at the retail level by generating greater consumer awareness through Skechers brand displays. Our VMC’s communicate with and visit our wholesale customers on a regular basis to aid in proper display of our merchandise. They also run in-store promotions to enhance the sale of Skechers footwear and create excitement surrounding the Skechers brand. We believe that these efforts help stimulate impulse sales and repeat purchases. Trade Shows. To better showcase our diverse products to footwear buyers in the United States and Europe, and to distributors around the world, we regularly exhibit at the leading trade shows. Along with specialty trade shows, we exhibit at WSA’s The Shoe Show, FFANY and MAGIC in the United States, and GDS, MICAM, Bread & Butter, and Who’s Next in Europe. Our dynamic, state-of-the-art trade show exhibits are developed by our in-house architect to showcase our latest product offerings in a lifestyle setting reflective of each of our brands. By investing in innovative displays and individual rooms showcasing each line, our sales force can 8 Table of Contents present a sales plan for each line and buyers are able to truly understand the breadth and depth of our offerings, thereby optimizing commitments and sales at the retail level. For select non-Skechers branded lines such as Michelle K, 310 Motoring and our Marc Ecko footwear lines, we have created individual exhibits to ensure the brand integrity. Our innovative exhibits have won numerous awards over the years, including Best Booth Design at the WSA Shoe Show, February 2001 and February 2003, and for our Unltd. by Marc Ecko and Rhino Red booth in August 2004 and February 2005. For FFANY, we show in our own New York showroom as is common during this show. Internet. We also promote our brand image through our e-commerce website, www.skechers.com, to consumers who access the Internet. This website currently enables us to present information on our products and store locations to consumers. Our website is interactive, affording consumers the ability to directly order products on the Internet, and it provides us a mechanism for customer feedback as well as allowing us to receive and respond directly to consumer feedback. Our website is intended to enhance the Skechers brand without the associated costs of advertising. Along with www.skechers.com, we have also established unique Internet websites for Michelle K (www.michellek.com), Mark Nason (www.marknason.com) and 310 Motoring (www.310motoring.com). These websites are designed to serve as marketing tools, properly imaging these brands while also informing customers about the respective product lines. PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS We have three reportable segments – domestic wholesale sales, international wholesale sales and retail sales. In addition, we report an “All other” segment, which includes our e-commerce sales and other miscellaneous sales. In the United States, our products are available through a network of wholesale accounts comprised of department, athletic and specialty stores. Internationally, our products are available through wholesale accounts in more than 100 countries and territories through our global network of distributors and our Canadian and European subsidiaries. Additionally, 12 distributors opened 38 distributor-owned Skechers retail stores in 16 countries as of December 31, 2005. Skechers owns and operates retail stores both domestically and internationally through three integrated retail formats—concept, factory outlet and warehouse outlet stores. Each of these channels serves an integral function in the global distribution of our products. Domestic Wholesale. We distribute our footwear through the following domestic wholesale distribution channels: department stores, specialty stores, athletic shoe stores and independent retailers. Department stores and specialty retailers are the largest distribution channels, but we believe that we appeal to a variety of wholesale accounts, many of whom may operate stores within the same retail location due to our distinct product lines and variety of styles, from which retailers can select those lines and styles that best satisfy the fashion, function and price criteria of their customers. Management has a clearly defined growth strategy for each of our channels of distribution. An integral component of our strategy is to offer our accounts the highest level of customer service so that our products will be fully represented in existing retail locations and new locations within each account. In an effort to provide knowledgeable and personalized service to our wholesale accounts, the sales force is segregated by product line, each of which is headed by a vice president or national sales manager. Reporting to each sales manager are knowledgeable account executives and territory managers. Our vice president and national sales managers report to our senior vice president of sales. All of our vice president and national sales managers are compensated on a salary basis, while our account executives and territory managers are compensated on a commission basis. None of our domestic sales personnel sell competing products. We believe that we have developed a loyal customer base of wholesale accounts through a heightened level of customer service. We believe that our close relationships with these accounts help us to maximize their retail sell-throughs. Our visual merchandise coordinators work with our wholesale accounts to ensure that our merchandise and point-of-purchase marketing materials are properly presented. Sales executives and merchandise personnel work closely with accounts to ensure that appropriate styles are purchased for specific accounts and for specific stores within those accounts as well as to ensure that appropriate inventory levels are carried at each store. Such information is then utilized to help develop sales projections and determine the product needs of our wholesale accounts. The value-added services we provide our wholesale customers help us maintain strong relationships with our existing wholesale customers and attract potential new wholesale customers. International Wholesale. Our products are sold in more than 100 countries and territories throughout the world. We generate revenues from outside the United States from three principal sources: (i) direct sales to department stores and specialty retail stores through our subsidiaries in Canada, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Switzerland, Austria, the Benelux Region and the United Kingdom, (ii) sales of our footwear to more than 30 foreign distributors who distribute such footwear to department stores and specialty retail stores in countries and territories across Eastern Europe, Asia, Latin America, South America, Africa, the Middle East 9 Table of Contents and Australia, among other regions and (iii) to a lesser extent, royalties from licensees who manufacture and distribute our non-footwear products outside the United States. We believe that international distribution of our products represents a significant opportunity to increase sales and profits. We intend to further increase our share of the international footwear market by heightening our marketing presence in those countries in which we currently have a presence through our international advertising campaigns, which are designed to establish Skechers as a global brand synonymous with trend-right casual shoes. • International Subsidiaries Europe We currently distribute product in most of Western Europe through the following subsidiaries: Skechers USA Ltd., with its offices and showrooms in London, England; Skechers S.a.r.l., with its offices and showrooms in Lausanne, Switzerland; Skechers USA France S.A.S., with its offices and showrooms in Paris, France; Skechers USA Deutschland GmbH, with its offices and showrooms in Dietzenbach, Germany; Skechers USA Iberia, S.L., with its offices and showrooms in Madrid, Spain; Skechers USA Benelux B.V., with its offices and showrooms in Waalwijk, the Netherlands; and Skechers USA Italia S.r.l., with its offices and showroom in Verona, Italy. In regards to our Skechers-owned retail stores in Europe, we have nine concept stores and one factory outlet store located in five countries, including the key locations of Oxford Street in London, Alstadt District in Düsseldorf and Kalverstraat Street in Amsterdam. To accommodate our European subsidiaries’ operations, we operate an approximately 240,000 square foot distribution center in Liege, Belgium. This distribution center is currently used to store and deliver product to our subsidiaries and retail stores throughout Europe. Canada Merchandising and marketing of our product in Canada is managed by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Skechers USA Canada, Inc. with its offices and showrooms outside Toronto in Mississauga, Ontario. Product sold in Canada is primarily sourced from our U.S. distribution center in Ontario, California. We have one concept store located in Toronto’s Eaton Centre and one factory outlet store located in Toronto. • Distributors Outside of Western Europe and Canada, our footwear is distributed through an extensive network of more than 30 distributors, who sell our products to department, athletic and specialty stores in more than 100 countries around the world. Through agreements with 12 of these distributors, 38 distributor-owned Skechers retail stores are open in 17 countries, including nine stores that were opened in 2005. One distributor-owned store was closed in 2005. STORE NUMBER OF REGION FORMAT STORES LOCATION(1) Asia Concept Warehouse 3 4 Osaka, Japan; Tokyo, Japan; South Korea Osaka, Japan (2); Shizuoka, Japan; Tochigi-ken, Japan Australia Concept 1 Sydney, Australia Central America/South America Concept 22 Chile (4); Columbia (5); Ecuador; El Salvador; Guatemala (2); Panama (2); Peru; Venezuela (6) Eastern Europe Concept 4 Moscow, Russia (3); Kiev, Ukraine Middle East Concept 3 Tel Aviv, Israel; Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; Dubai, UAE South Africa Concept 1 Sandton, South Africa (1) One store per location except as otherwise noted. 10 Table of Contents The distributors are responsible for their respective store’s operations, have ownership of their respective store’s assets and select the broad collection of our products to sell to consumers in their regions. In order to maintain a globally consistent image, we provide architectural, graphic and visual guidance and materials for the design of the stores, and we train the local staff on our products and corporate culture. We intend to expand our international presence and global recognition of the Skechers brand name by continuing to sell our footwear to foreign distributors and by opening flagship retail stores with distributors that have local market expertise. Retail Stores. We pursue our retail store strategy through our three integrated retail formats: the concept store, the factory outlet store and the warehouse outlet store. Our three-store format enables us to promote the full Skechers product offering in an attractive environment that appeals to a broad group of consumers. This format also allows us to manage our inventory in an efficient and brand sensitive manner. In addition, most of our retail stores are profitable and have a positive effect on our operating results. As of February 28, 2006, we operated 34 concept stores, 56 factory outlet stores and 32 warehouse outlet stores in the United States, and ten concept stores and two warehouse outlet stores internationally. We closed three stores and opened 11 new stores in 2005. We opened one new store in the first two months of 2006, with an additional 15 to 20 stores planned to open by the end of 2006. • Concept Stores. Our concept stores are located at either marquee street locations or in major shopping malls in large metropolitan cities. Our concept stores have a threefold purpose in our operating strategy. First, concept stores serve as a showcase for a wide range of our product offering for the current season as we estimate that our average wholesale customer carries no more than 5% of the complete Skechers line in any one location. Our concept stores showcase our products in a cutting-edge, open-floor setting, providing the customer with the complete Skechers story. Second, retail locations are generally chosen to generate maximum marketing value for the Skechers brand name through signage, store front presentation and interior design. Domestic locations include concept stores at Times Square and 34th Street in New York, Santa Monica’s Third Street Promenade, Dallas’ Northpark Center, Las Vegas’ Fashion Show Mall, Seattle’s Bellevue Square Mall, Woodfield Mall outside Chicago and international locations include Oxford Street in London, Alstadt District in Dusseldorf and Kalverstraat Street in Amsterdam. The stores are typically designed to create a distinctive Skechers look and feel, and enhance customer association of the Skechers brand name with current youthful lifestyle trends and styles. Third, the concept stores serve as marketing and product testing venues. We believe that product sell-through information and rapid customer feedback derived from our concept stores enables our design, sales, merchandising and production staff to respond to market changes and new product introductions. Such responses serve to augment sales and limit our inventory markdowns and customer returns and allowances. We opened one concept store and closed three others in 2005. The typical Skechers concept store is approximately 2,500 square feet, although in certain markets we have opened concept stores as large as 6,400 square feet or as small as 1,200 square feet. When deciding where to open concept stores, we identify top geographic markets in the larger metropolitan cities in the United States, Europe and Canada. When selecting a specific site, we evaluate the proposed sites’ traffic pattern, co-tenancies, sales volume of neighboring concept stores, lease economics and other factors considered important within the specific location. If we are considering opening a concept store in a shopping mall, our strategy is to obtain space as centrally located as possible in the mall where we expect foot traffic to be most concentrated. We believe that the strength of the Skechers brand name has enabled us to negotiate more favorable terms with shopping malls that want us to open up concept stores to attract customer traffic to their venues. In an effort to market and test our non-Skechers brands, we opened a new format of concept store, SoHo Lab. In 2004, we converted an existing Skechers concept store in New York’s SoHo District to the new format, removing all Skechers signage and graphics, replacing them with graphics from our fashion and street lines: Michelle K, Mark Nason, 310 Motoring, Unltd. by Marc Ecko and Rhino Red. In 2005, we converted two additional Skechers concept stores in urban and/or fashion locations to SoHo Lab stores, and in 2006, we plan to open four more SoHo Lab locations built from the ground up. The stores may also include more fashion forward Skechers styles. • Factory Outlet Stores. Our factory outlet stores are generally located in manufacturers’ direct outlet centers throughout the United States. In addition, we have two international outlet stores – one in Canada that opened in 2005 and one in England. Our factory outlet stores provide opportunities for us to sell discontinued and excess merchandise, thereby reducing the need to sell such merchandise to discounters at excessively low prices, which could otherwise compromise the Skechers brand image. Skechers’ factory outlet stores range in size from approximately 1,900 to 9,000 square feet. Inventory in these stores is 11 Table of Contents supplemented by certain first-line styles sold at full retail price points. We opened nine domestic factory outlet stores in 2005, and one more in the first two months of 2006. • Warehouse Outlet Stores. Our free-standing warehouse outlet stores, which are located throughout the United States, enable us to liquidate excess merchandise, discontinued lines and odd-size inventory in a cost-efficient manner. Skechers’ warehouse outlet stores range in size from approximately 5,200 to 14,800 square feet. Our warehouse outlet stores enable us to sell discontinued and excess merchandise that would otherwise typically be sold to discounters at excessively low prices, which could otherwise compromise the Skechers brand image. We seek to open our warehouse outlet stores in areas that are in close proximity to our concept stores in order to facilitate the timely transfer of inventory that we want to liquidate as soon as practicable. We did not open any new warehouse outlet stores in 2005. Electronic Commerce. Our e-commerce sales represented less than 1.0% of total net sales in 2005, 2004 and 2003. Our website, www.skechers.com, is a virtual storefront that promotes the Skechers brand name. Designed to provide a positive shopping experience, the website showcases our products in an easy-to-navigate format, allowing consumers to browse our selections and purchase our footwear. This virtual store has provided a convenient alternative-shopping environment, become an efficient and effective additional retail distribution channel, and has improved our customer service. LICENSING We believe that selective licensing of the Skechers brand name and our product line names to manufacturers may broaden and enhance the individual brands without requiring significant capital investments or additional incremental operating expenses. Our multiple product lines plus additional subcategories present many potential licensing opportunities on terms with licensees that we believe will provide more effective manufacturing, distribution or marketing of non-footwear products. We also believe that the reputation of Skechers and its history in launching brands has also enabled us to partner with reputable non-footwear brands in order to design and market their footwear. The first launch of Skechers licensed product was Skechers Kids apparel for boys and girls from the licensee, Kids Headquarters, in the United States for the 2003 back-to-school selling season. Due to the successful in-store launch of Skechers Kids, we expanded our licensing agreement with Kids Headquarters to include infant and toddler apparel, boys’ and girls’ daywear and sleepwear, and swimwear for boys and girls. We also extended our territory for licensed apparel for infants, toddlers and children by signing a licensing agreement with MultiGroup Inc. for design and distribution of Skechers Kids in Canada. As of February 28, 2006, we had 14 active domestic and international licensing agreements. In addition to our licensing agreement with MultiGroup, we have international licensing agreements with other licensees for the design and distribution of men’s and women’s active apparel in Israel; for adult and children’s active apparel, swimwear, hosiery and accessories in Japan; and new in 2005, bags in select Central and South American countries and watches in the Philippines. We have also signed an agreement for Skechers bags in China, which are expected to begin shipping in 2006. We have signed agreements to design, develop and market footwear for the street lifestyle apparel brands, Ecko Unltd., Ecko Red and Zoo York under the Marc Ecko Enterprises umbrella and for Kitson, the ultra-hip Hollywood boutique. DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES AND OPERATIONS We believe that strong distribution support is a critical factor in our operations. Once manufactured, our products are packaged in shoe boxes bearing bar codes and are shipped either (i) to our approximately 1.4 million square-foot internally managed distribution center located in Ontario, California, (ii) to our approximately 240,000 square-foot distribution center located in Liege, Belgium or (iii) directly from third-party manufacturers to our other international customers. Upon receipt at either of the distribution centers, merchandise is inspected and recorded in our management information system and packaged according to customers’ orders for delivery. Merchandise is shipped to customers by whatever means each customer requests, which is usually by common carrier. The distribution centers have multi-access docks, enabling us to receive and ship simultaneously, and to pack separate trailers for shipments to different customers at the same time. We have an electronic data interchange system, or EDI system, to which some of our larger customers are linked. This system allows these customers to automatically place orders with us, thereby eliminating the time involved in transmitting and inputting orders, and it includes direct billing and shipping information. 12 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a summary of our distribution facilities: ADDRESS STATUS SQUARE FOOTAGE Avenue du parc Industriel, Liege, Belgium Leased since July 2002 241,700 4100 East Mission Blvd., Ontario, CA Leased since June 2001 763,300 1670 Champagne Avenue, Ontario, CA Owned since October 2000 263,700 1661 South Vintage, Avenue, Ontario, CA Leased since November 1997 127,800 1777 South Vintage, Avenue, Ontario, CA Leased since November 1997 284,600 1,681,100 We believe that we have the capacity at our Ontario distribution center to increase our current operations to meet any future growth, and if we should ever need to expand our distribution facilities to allow for further growth, we believe there is presently enough space available in close proximity that leads us to believe leasing or purchasing additional property will not be a problem in the foreseeable future. Our lease agreement for our Liege, Belgium distribution center provides for first right of refusal on three remaining facilities planned for development, allowing for expansion of up to approximately 735,000 square feet. We believe that the capacity available to us within this lease agreement will allow for further growth of our international operations. BACKLOG As of December 31, 2005, our backlog was $250.5 million, compared to $220.5 million as of December 31, 2004. While backlog orders are subject to cancellation by customers, we have not experienced significant cancellation of orders in the past, and we expect that substantially all the orders will be shipped in 2006. However, for a variety of reasons, including customer demand for our products, the timing of shipments, product mix of customer orders, the amount of in-season orders and a shift towards tighter lead times within backlog levels, backlog may not be a reliable measure of future sales for any succeeding period. In addition, cancellation rates that we have realized in the past may not be indicative of cancellation rates to be expected in the future. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS We own and utilize a variety of trademarks, including the Skechers trademark. We have a significant number of both registrations and pending applications for our trademarks in the United States. In addition, we have trademark registrations and trademark applications in approximately 80 foreign countries. We also have design patents and pending design and utility patent applications in both the United States and approximately 25 foreign countries. We continuously look to increase the number of our patents and trademarks both domestically and internationally where necessary to protect valuable intellectual property. We regard our trademarks and other intellectual property as valuable assets and believe that they have significant value in the marketing of our products. We vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement, including through the use of cease and desist letters, administrative proceedings and lawsuits. We rely on trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to establish, protect and enforce intellectual property rights in our logos, tradenames and in the design of our products. In particular, we believe that our future success will largely depend on our ability to maintain and protect the Skechers trademark. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our intellectual property rights, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in this regard. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that our trademarks, products and promotional materials or other intellectual property rights do not or will not violate the intellectual property rights of others, that our intellectual property would be upheld if challenged, or that we would, in such an event, not be prevented from using our trademarks or other intellectual property rights. Such claims, if proven, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, although any such claims may ultimately prove to be without merit, the necessary management attention to and legal costs associated with litigation or other resolution of future claims concerning trademarks and other intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have sued and have been sued by third parties for infringement of intellectual property. It is our opinion that none of these claims has materially impaired our ability to utilize our intellectual property rights. The laws of certain foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as do the laws of the United States. Although we continue to implement protective measures and intend to defend our intellectual property rights vigorously, these efforts may not be successful or the costs associated with protecting our rights in certain jurisdictions may be 13 Table of Contents prohibitive. From time to time we discover products in the marketplace that are counterfeit reproductions of our products or that otherwise infringe upon intellectual property rights held by us. Actions taken by us to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as violating trademarks and intellectual property rights. If we are unsuccessful in challenging a third party’s products on the basis of infringement of our intellectual property rights, continued sales of such products by that or any other third party could adversely impact the Skechers brand, result in the shift of consumer preferences away from our products and generally have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. COMPETITION Competition in the footwear industry is intense. Although we believe that we do not compete directly with any single company with respect to its entire range of products, our products compete with other branded products within their product category as well as with private label products sold by retailers, including some of our customers. Our utility footwear and casual shoes compete with footwear offered by companies such as The Timberland Company, Dr. Martens, Kenneth Cole Productions Inc., Steven Madden, Ltd. and Wolverine World Wide, Inc. Our athletic shoes compete with brands of athletic footwear offered by companies such as Nike, Inc., Reebok International Ltd., Adidas-Salomon AG, Puma AG and New Balance Athletic Shoe, Inc. Our children’s shoes compete with brands of children’s footwear such as those offered by The Stride Rite Corporation. In varying degrees, depending on the product category involved, we compete on the basis of style, price, quality, comfort and brand name prestige and recognition, among other considerations. These and other competitors pose challenges to our market share in our major domestic markets and may make it more difficult to establish our products in Europe, Asia and other international regions. We also compete with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of footwear for the limited shelf space available for the display of such products to the consumer. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing capacity allows ease of access by new market entrants. Many of our competitors are larger, have been in existence for a longer period of time, have achieved greater recognition for their brand names, have captured greater market share and/or have substantially greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against present or future competitors, or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. EMPLOYEES As of February 28, 2006, we employed 2,997 persons, 1,680 of whom were employed on a full-time basis and 1,317 of whom were employed on a part-time basis. None of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are satisfactory. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this annual report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating us and our business. Our Future Success Depends On Our Ability To Respond To Changing Consumer Demands, Identify And Interpret Fashion Trends And Successfully Market New Products. The footwear industry is subject to rapidly changing consumer demands and fashion trends. Accordingly, we must identify and interpret fashion trends and respond in a timely manner. Demand for and market acceptance of new products are uncertain and achieving market acceptance for new products generally requires substantial product development and marketing efforts and expenditures. If we do not continue to meet changing consumer demands and develop successful styles in the future, our growth and profitability will be negatively impacted. We frequently make decisions about product designs and marketing expenditures several months in advance of the time when consumer acceptance can be determined. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react appropriately to changes in styles and trends or are not successful in marketing new products, we could experience excess inventories, higher than normal markdowns or an inability to profitably sell our products. Because of these risks, a number of companies in the footwear industry specifically, and others in the fashion and apparel industry in general, have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings and thereafter periods of declining sales and losses, which in some cases have resulted in companies in these industries ceasing to do business. Similarly, these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our Business And The Success Of Our Products Could Be Harmed If We Are Unable To Maintain Our Brand Image. Our success to date has been due in large part to the strength of the Skechers brand. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to changing consumer demand, our brand name and brand image may be impaired. Even if we react appropriately to changes in consumer preferences, consumers may consider our brand image to be outdated or associate our brand with styles of footwear that are no longer popular. In the past, several footwear companies including ours have experienced periods of rapid growth in revenues and earnings followed by periods of declining sales and losses. Our business may be similarly affected in the future. Our Business Could Be Harmed If We Fail To Maintain Proper Inventory Levels. We place orders with our manufacturers for some of our products prior to the time we receive all of our customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. We also maintain an inventory of certain products that we anticipate will be in greater demand. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have ordered in advance from manufacturers or that we have in our inventory. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate consumer demand for our products or if our manufacturers fail to supply the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact retailer and distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. We Face Intense Competition, Including Competition From Companies With Significantly Greater Resources Than Ours, And If We Are Unable To Compete Effectively With These Companies, Our Market Share May Decline And Our Business Could Be Harmed. We face intense competition in the footwear industry from other established companies. A number of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technological, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Their greater capabilities in these areas may enable them to better withstand periodic downturns in the footwear industry, compete more effectively on the basis of price and production and more quickly develop new products. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the footwear industry. We believe that our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including the style and quality of our products and the strength of our brand name, as well as many factors beyond our control. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. We Depend Upon A Relatively Small Group Of Customers For A Large Portion Of Our Sales. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, our net sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 25.4%, 26.8% and 27.7% of total net sales, respectively. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales during 2005, 2004 and 2003. One customer accounted for 10.3% and 10.9% of net trade receivables at December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers, our customers do not have a contractual obligation to purchase our products and we cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our existing major customers. Furthermore, the retail industry regularly experiences consolidation, contractions and closings which may result in our loss of customers or our inability to collect accounts receivable of major customers in excess of amounts that we have insured. If we lose a major customer, experience a significant decrease in sales to a major customer or are unable to collect the accounts receivable of a major customer in excess of amounts insured, our business could be harmed. Our International Sales And Manufacturing Operations Are Subject To The Risks Of Doing Business Abroad, Particularly In China, Which Could Affect Our Ability To Sell Or Manufacture Our Products In International Markets, Obtain Products From Foreign Suppliers Or Control The Costs Of Our Products. Substantially all of our net sales during the year ended December 31, 2005 were derived from sales of footwear manufactured in foreign countries, with most manufactured in China and, to a lesser extent, in Italy, Vietnam and Brazil. We also sell our footwear in several foreign countries and plan to increase our international sales efforts as part of our growth strategy. Foreign manufacturing and sales are subject to a number of risks, including the following risks: political and social unrest, including the military presence in Iraq; 15 Table of Contents changing economic conditions; currency exchange rate fluctuations; international political tension and terrorism; labor shortages and work stoppages; electrical shortages, transportation delays; loss or damage to products in transit; expropriation; nationalization; the imposition of domestic and international tariffs and trade duties, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers, exposure to different legal standards (particularly with respect to intellectual property), compliance with foreign laws, and changes in domestic and foreign governmental policies. We have not, to date, been materially affected by any such risks, but we cannot predict the likelihood of such developments occurring or the resulting long-term adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In particular, because most of our products are manufactured in China, adverse changes in trade or political relations with China, political instability in China, the occurrence of a natural disaster such as an earthquake or hurricane in China or the outbreak of a pandemic disease such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) or the Avian Flu in China would severely interfere with the manufacture of our products and would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, electrical shortages, labor shortages or work stoppages may extend the production time necessary to produce our orders, and there may be circumstances in the future where we may have to incur premium freight charges to expedite the delivery of product to our customers. If we incur a significant amount of premium charges to airfreight product for our customers, our gross profit will be negatively affected if we are unable to collect those charges. Also, our manufacturers located in China may be subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations should the Chinese currency not remain stable with the U.S. dollar. The value of the Chinese currency depends to a large extent on the Chinese government’s policies and China’s domestic and international economic and political developments. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of the Chinese currency was pegged to the U.S. dollar at a virtually fixed rate of approximately 8.28 Yuan per U.S. dollar. However, on July 21, 2005, the Chinese government revalued the Yuan by 2.1%, setting the exchange rate at 8.11 Yuan per U.S. dollar, and adopted a more flexible system based on a trade-weighted basket of foreign currencies of China’s main trading partners. Under the new “managed float” policy, the exchange rate of the Yuan may shift each day up to 0.3% in either direction from the previous day’s close, and as a result, the valuation of the Yuan may increase incrementally over time should the China central bank allow it to do so, which could significantly increase labor and other costs incurred in the production of our footwear in China. The Potential Imposition Of Additional Duties, Tariffs And Other Trade Restrictions, Including The European Union’s Anticipated Anti-Dumping Duties On Leather Footwear Made In China And Vietnam, Could Have An Adverse Impact On Our Sales And Profitability. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States, the European Union (“EU”) and other countries are subject to customs duties collected by customs authorities. Customs information submitted by us is routinely subject to review by customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether additional customs duties, anti-dumping duties, quotas, safeguard measures or other trade restrictions may be imposed on the importation of our products in the future. Such actions could result in increases in the cost of our products generally and might adversely affect the sales and profitability of Skechers and the imported footwear industry as a whole. Following the phase-out at the beginning of 2005 of quotas that had been imposed by the EU since 1994 on the import of certain types of footwear manufactured in China, and the expiration of a separate EU anti-dumping case in 2003 against footwear made in China, Indonesia and Thailand, there has been renewed pressure from the EU footwear manufacturing industry to re-impose some level of trade protection on imported footwear from China, India, Vietnam and other exporting countries. In mid-2005, the EU Trade Commission initiated an anti-dumping investigation into leather footwear imported from China and Vietnam. Along with other major footwear manufacturers, we have been actively participating as respondents in this investigation and are taking the position that certain categories of footwear should not be within the product scope of this investigation and do not meet the legal requirements of injury and price in an anti-dumping investigation, as part of our efforts to minimize any adverse financial impact on our results of operations in 2006 and beyond. We believe that our major competitors stand in much the same position of risk regarding these potential trade measures. We May Be Unable To Successfully Execute Our Growth Strategy Or Maintain Our Growth. Although our company has generally exhibited steady growth since we started our business, we had a decrease in size in the past and our rate of growth has declined at times as well, and we may experience similar decreases in size or declines in rate of growth again in the future. Our ability to grow in the future depends upon, among other things, the continued success of our efforts to maintain our brand image and expand our footwear offerings and distribution channels. Furthermore, as our business becomes larger, we may not be able to effectively manage our growth. We anticipate that as our business continues to grow, we will have to improve 16 Table of Contents and enhance our overall financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. We may be unable to successfully implement our current growth strategy or other growth strategies or effectively manage our growth, any of which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Business May Be Negatively Impacted As A Result Of Changes In The Economy. Our business depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending that affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our primary direct customers. Purchases of footwear tend to decline in periods of recession or uncertainty regarding future economic prospects, when consumer spending, particularly on discretionary items, declines. During periods of recession or economic uncertainty, we may not be able to maintain or increase our sales to existing customers, make sales to new customers, open and operate new retail stores, maintain sales levels at our existing stores, maintain or increase our international operations on a profitable basis, or maintain or improve our earnings from operations as a percentage of net sales. As a result, our operating results may be adversely and materially affected by downward trends in the economy or the occurrence of events that adversely affect the economy in general. Furthermore, in anticipation of continued increases in net sales, we have significantly expanded our infrastructure and workforce to achieve economies of scale. Because these expenses are fixed in the short term, our operating results and margins will be adversely impacted if we do not continue to grow as anticipated. For example, due in large part to the slowdown in the global economy, our net sales for 2003 were lower than anticipated. This lower level of sales adversely affected our operating results for 2003 and could do so again in 2006 and beyond. Economic, Political, Military Or Other Events In The United States Or In A Country Where We Make Significant Sales Or Have Significant Operations Could Interfere With Our Success Or Operations There And Harm Our Business. We market and sell our products and services throughout the world. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks disrupted commerce throughout the United States and other parts of the world. The continued threat of similar attacks throughout the world and the military action, or possible military action, taken by the United States and other nations, in Iraq or other countries may cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. To the extent that such disruptions further slow the global economy or, more particularly, result in delays or cancellations of purchase orders for our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We are unable to predict whether the threat of new attacks or the responses thereto will result in any long-term commercial disruptions or if such activities or responses will have a long-term material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our Quarterly Revenues And Operating Results Fluctuate As A Result Of A Variety Of Factors, Including Seasonal Fluctuations In Demand For Footwear, Delivery Date Delays And Potential Fluctuations In Our Annualized Tax Rate, Which May Result In Volatility Of Our Stock Price. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and can be expected to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our major customers generally have no obligation to purchase forecasted amounts and may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice and without penalty. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. In addition, sales of footwear products have historically been somewhat seasonal in nature with the strongest sales generally occurring in our second and third quarters for the back-to-school selling season. Back-to-school sales typically ship in June, July and August, and delays in the timing, cancellation, or rescheduling of these customer orders and shipments by our wholesale customers could negatively impact our net sales and results of operations for our second and third quarters. More specifically, the timing of when products are shipped is determined by the delivery schedules set by our wholesale customers, which could cause sales to shift between our second and third quarters. Because our expense levels are partially based on our expectations of future net sales, our expenses may be disproportionately large relative to our revenues, and we may be unable to adjust spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected revenue shifts, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Also, our annualized tax rate is based on projections of our domestic and international operating results for the year, which we review and revise as necessary at the end of each quarter, and it is highly sensitive to fluctuations in projected international earnings. Any quarterly fluctuations in our annualized tax rate that may occur could have a material impact on our quarterly operating results. As a result of these specific and other general factors, our operating results will likely vary from quarter to quarter and the results for any particular quarter may not be necessarily indicative of results for the full year. Any shortfall in revenues or net income from levels expected by securities analysts and investors could cause a decrease in the trading price of our Class A Common Stock. 17 Table of Contents We Rely On Independent Contract Manufacturers And, As A Result, Are Exposed To Potential Disruptions In Product Supply. Our footwear products are currently manufactured by independent contract manufacturers. During 2005 and 2004, the top four manufacturers of our products produced approximately 59.7% and 56.1% of our total purchases, respectively. One manufacturer accounted for 32.4% and 28.2% of total purchases during 2005 and 2004, respectively. A second manufacturer accounted for 11.2% and 11.0% of our total purchases during 2005 and 2004, respectively. We do not have long-term contracts with our manufacturers, and we compete with other footwear companies for production facilities. We could experience difficulties with these manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, failure to meet our quality control standards, failure to meet production deadlines or increased manufacturing costs. In particular, manufacturers in China are facing a labor shortage as migrant workers seek better wages and working conditions in farming and other vocations, and if this trend continues, our current manufacturers’ operations could be adversely affected. If our current manufacturers cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in the manufacture of our products. Although we believe that we could find alternative manufacturers, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative manufacturers that will be as favorable as the relationships we have now. For example, new manufacturers may have higher prices, less favorable payment terms, lower manufacturing capacity, lower quality standards or higher lead times for delivery. If we are unable to provide products consistent with our standards or the manufacture of our footwear is delayed or becomes more expensive, this could result in our customers canceling orders, refusing to accept deliveries or demanding reductions in purchase prices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Business Could Be Harmed If Our Contract Manufacturers, Suppliers Or Licensees Violate Labor, Trade Or Other Laws. We require our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees to operate in compliance with applicable United States and foreign laws and regulations. Manufacturers are required to certify that neither convicted, forced or indentured labor (as defined under United States law) nor child labor (as defined by the manufacturer’s country) is used in the production process, that compensation is paid in accordance with local law and that their factories are in compliance with local safety regulations. Although we promote ethical business practices and our sourcing personnel periodically visit and monitor the operations of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers and licensees, we do not control them or their labor practices. If one of our independent contract manufacturers, suppliers or licensees violates labor or other laws or diverges from those labor practices generally accepted as ethical in the United States, it could result in adverse publicity for us, damage our reputation in the United States or render our conduct of business in a particular foreign country undesirable or impractical, any of which could harm our business. In addition, if we, or our foreign manufacturers, violate United States or foreign trade laws or regulations, we may be subject to extra duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and the forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of our import privileges. Possible violations of United States or foreign laws or regulations could include inadequate record keeping of our imported products, misstatements or errors as to the origin, quota category, classification, marketing or valuation of our imported products, fraudulent visas or labor violations. The effects of these factors could render our conduct of business in a particular country undesirable or impractical and have a negative impact on our operating results. Our Operating Results Could Be Negatively Impacted If Our Sales Are Concentrated In Any One Style Or Group Of Styles. If any one style or group of similar styles of our footwear were to represent a substantial portion of our net sales, we could be exposed to risk should consumer demand for such style or group of styles decrease in subsequent periods. We attempt to hedge this risk by offering a broad range of products, and no style comprised over 5% of our gross wholesale sales during 2005 or 2004. However, this may change in the future and fluctuations in sales of any given style that represents a significant portion of our future net sales could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our Strategies Involve A Number Of Risks That Could Prevent Or Delay Any Successful Opening Of New Stores As Well As Impact The Performance Of Our Existing Stores. Our ability to open and operate new stores successfully depends on many factors, including, among others, our ability to identify suitable store locations, the availability of which is outside of our control; negotiate acceptable lease terms, including desired tenant improvement allowances; source sufficient levels of inventory to meet the needs of new stores; hire, train and retain store personnel; successfully integrate new stores into our existing operations; and satisfy the fashion preferences in new geographic areas. 18 Table of Contents In addition, some or a substantial number of new stores could be opened in regions of the United States in which we currently have few or no stores. Any expansion into new markets may present competitive, merchandising and distribution challenges that are different from those currently encountered in our existing markets. Any of these challenges could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that any new store openings are in existing markets, we may experience reduced net sales volumes in existing stores in those markets. Many Of Our Retail Stores Depend Heavily On The Customer Traffic Generated By Shopping And Factory Outlet Malls Or By Tourism. Many of our concept stores are located in shopping malls and some of our factory outlet stores are located in manufacturers’ outlet malls where we depend on obtaining prominent locations and the overall success of the malls to generate customer traffic. We cannot control the development of new malls, the availability or cost of appropriate locations within existing or new malls or the success of individual malls. Some of our concept stores occupy street locations that are heavily dependent on customer traffic generated by tourism. Any substantial decrease in tourism resulting from political, social or military events, a downturn in the economy or otherwise, is likely to adversely affect sales in our existing stores, particularly those with street locations. The effects of these factors could hinder our ability to open retail stores in new markets or reduce sales of particular existing stores, which could negatively affect our operating results. We Depend On Key Personnel To Manage Our Business Effectively In A Rapidly Changing Market, And If We Are Unable To Retain Existing Personnel, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our future success depends upon the continued services of Robert Greenberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Greenberg, President, and David Weinberg, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or any other key employee could harm us. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain additional qualified personnel. Competition for employees in our industry is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. The Disruption, Expense And Potential Liability Associated With Existing And Unanticipated Future Litigation Against Us Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business, Results Of Operations And Financial Condition. We are subject to various legal proceedings and threatened legal proceedings from time to time as part of our business. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings or aware of any threatened legal proceedings, the adverse outcome of which, individually or in the aggregate, we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. However, any unanticipated litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could significantly divert management’s attention from our operations and result in substantial legal fees to us. Further, there can be no assurance that any actions that have been or will be brought against us will be resolved in our favor or, if significant monetary judgments are rendered against us, that we will have the ability to pay such judgments. Such disruptions, legal fees and any losses resulting from these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Trademarks, Design Patents And Other Intellectual Property Rights May Not Be Adequately Protected Outside The United States. We believe that our trademarks, design patents and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and design patents on a worldwide basis. In the course of our international expansion, we have, however, experienced conflicts with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in certain trademarks similar to ours or have otherwise contested our rights to our trademarks. We have in the past successfully resolved these conflicts through both legal action and negotiated settlements, none of which we believe has had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights 19 Table of Contents outside the United States will be adequate to prevent imitation of our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks, designs and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. We may face significant expenses and liability in connection with the protection of our intellectual property rights outside the United States, and if we are unable to successfully protect our rights or resolve intellectual property conflicts with others, our business or financial condition may be adversely affected. Our Ability To Compete Could Be Jeopardized If We Are Unable To Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights Or If We Are Sued For Intellectual Property Infringement. We use trademarks on nearly all of our products and believe that having distinctive marks that are readily identifiable is an important factor in creating a market for our goods, in identifying us and in distinguishing our goods from the goods of others. We consider our Skechers®, S in Shield Design® and Performance-S Shifted Design® trademarks to be among our most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in many countries. In addition, we own many other trademarks, which we utilize in marketing our products. We continue to vigorously protect our trademarks against infringement. We also have a number of design patents and a limited number of utility patents covering components and features used in various shoes. We believe that our success depends primarily upon skills in design, research and development, production and marketing rather than upon our patent position. However, we have followed a policy of filing applications for United States and foreign patents on designs and technologies that we deem valuable. We believe that our patents and trademarks are generally sufficient to permit us to carry on our business as presently conducted. We cannot, however, know whether we will be able to secure patents or trademark protection for our intellectual property in the future or that protection will be adequate for future products. Further, we face the risk of ineffective protection of intellectual property rights in the countries where we source and distribute our products. We have been sued for patent and trademark infringement and cannot be sure that our activities do not and will not infringe on the proprietary rights of others. If we are compelled to prosecute infringing parties, defend our intellectual property or defend ourselves from intellectual property claims made by others, we may face significant expenses and liability and necessary management attention to such matters, which could negatively impact our business or financial condition. Obtaining Additional Capital To Fund Our Operations And Finance Our Growth Could Make It Difficult For Us To Service Our Debt Obligations. If our working capital needs exceed our current expectations, we may need to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to successfully execute our growth strategy, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing debt, it may become difficult for us to meet debt service obligations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Also, any new equity securities may have greater rights, preferences or privileges than our existing Class A Common Stock. Natural Disasters Or A Decline In Economic Conditions In California Could Increase Our Operating Expenses Or Adversely Affect Our Sales Revenue. A substantial portion of our operations are located in California, including 38 of our retail stores, our headquarters in Manhattan Beach and our domestic distribution center in Ontario. Because a significant portion of our net sales is derived from sales in California, a decline in the economic conditions in California, whether or not such decline spreads beyond California, could materially adversely affect our business. Furthermore, a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake or wild fires affecting California, could significantly disrupt our business including the operation of our only domestic distribution center. We may be more susceptible to these issues than our competitors whose operations are not as concentrated in California. Failure By Us To Comply With Any Of The Financial Covenants In Our Long-Term Debt Agreements And $150 Million Line Of Credit Facility Could Have A Material Adverse Impact On Our Business. A significant decrease in our operating results could adversely effect our ability to maintain required financial covenants under our various long-term debt agreements and our $150 million credit facility. If these financial covenants are not maintained, the creditors will have the option to require immediate repayment of all outstanding long-term debt and any amounts outstanding under the credit facility, if any, and some of these agreements also contain cross-default provisions. The most likely result would require us to renegotiate certain terms of these agreements, obtain waivers from the creditors or obtain new debt agreements with other creditors, which may contain less favorable terms. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable terms, obtain necessary waivers or obtain new debt agreements, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Recognizing Compensation Expense Related To Stock Options Under FASB Statement 123(R) Will Reduce Our Future Reported Earnings. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued a new accounting standard (Statement 123(R)) requiring companies to begin recognizing compensation expense related to all unvested and newly granted stock options. We included such expenses on a pro forma basis in the notes to our quarterly and annual financial statements through December 31, 2005 in accordance with U.S. GAAP and did not include compensation expense related to stock options in reported earnings. We adopted Statement 123(R) on January 1, 2006 as required. Thus, our reported earnings will be lower in 2006 and thereafter than they would otherwise be under the previous accounting treatment for stock options, and as a result, the trading price of our Class A Common Stock could decline. One Principal Stockholder Is Able To Control Substantially All Matters Requiring A Vote Of Our Stockholders And His Interests May Differ From The Interests Of Our Other Stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, Robert Greenberg, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned 73.5% of our outstanding Class B Common Stock and members of Mr. Greenberg’s immediate family beneficially owned the remainder of our outstanding Class B Common Stock. The holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock have identical rights except that holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share while holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to ten votes per share on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. As a result, as of December 31, 2005, Mr. Greenberg beneficially owned approximately 64.5% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders, and together with shares beneficially owned by other members of his immediate family, he beneficially owned approximately 87.5% of the aggregate number of votes eligible to be cast by our stockholders. Therefore, Mr. Greenberg is able to control substantially all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. Matters that require the approval of our stockholders include the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Mr. Greenberg also has control over our management and affairs. As a result of such control, certain transactions are not possible without the approval of Mr. Greenberg, including proxy contests, tender offers, open market purchase programs or other transactions that can give our stockholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market prices for their shares of our Class A Common Stock. The differential in the voting rights may adversely affect the value of our Class A Common Stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser view the superior voting rights of our Class B Common Stock to have value. Our Charter Documents And Delaware Law May Inhibit A Takeover, Which May Cause A Decline In The Value Of Our Stock. Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if closing such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Mr. Greenberg’s substantial beneficial ownership position, together with the authorization of Preferred Stock, the disparate voting rights between our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock, the classification of our Board of Directors and the lack of cumulative voting in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, may discourage bids for our Class A Common Stock at a premium over the market price of the Class A Common Stock and may adversely affect the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We Are Still Exposed To Potential Risks From Recent Legislation Requiring Public Companies To Evaluate Controls Under Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002. We are subject to various regulatory requirements, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We, like all other public companies, are incurring expenses and, to a lesser extent, diverting management’s time in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have implemented processes documenting and evaluating our system of internal controls. If, in the future, management identifies one or more material weaknesses, or our external auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, this could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports, have an adverse effect on our stock price and/or subject us to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 