ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS JCG faces numerous risks, uncertainties and other factors that are substantial and inherent to its business, including market, operational, legal and regulatory risks. The following are significant factors that could affect JCG's business. JCG's revenues and profits are primarily dependent on the value, composition and relative investment performance of its investment products. Any decrease in the value, relative investment performance or amount of assets under management will cause a decline in revenues and operating results. Assets under management may decline for various reasons, many of which are not under JCG's control. Factors that could cause assets under management and revenues to decline include the following: • Declines in equity markets. JCG's assets under management are concentrated in the U.S. equity markets and, to a lesser extent, in the international equity markets. As such, declines in the financial markets as a whole or the market segments in which JCG's investment products are concentrated will cause assets under management to decrease. • Declines in fixed income markets. In the case of fixed income investment products, which invest in high-quality short-term instruments as well as other fixed income securities of varying quality and duration, the value of the assets may decline as a result of changes in interest rates, available liquidity in the markets in which a security trades, an issuer's actual or perceived creditworthiness, or an issuer's ability to meet its obligations. • Redemptions and other withdrawals. Investors may reduce their investments in specific JCG investment products or in the markets in which JCG's investment products are concentrated in 8 Table of Contents response to adverse market conditions, inconsistent investment performance, the pursuit of other investment opportunities (including passive investment strategies) or other factors. • Operations in international markets. The investment products managed by JCG may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to risk of loss from political or diplomatic developments, government policies, civil unrest, currency fluctuations and changes in legislation related to foreign ownership. International markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, which are often smaller and may not have the liquidity of established markets, may lack established regulations and may experience significantly more volatility than established markets. • Relative investment performance. JCG's investment products are often judged on their performance as compared to benchmark indices or peer groups, or on an absolute return basis. Any period of underperformance of investment products may result in the loss of existing assets and affect JCG's ability to attract new assets. In addition, approximately 34% of the Company's assets under management at December 31, 2015, are subject to performance fees. Performance fees are based on each product's investment performance as compared to an established benchmark index over a specified period of time. If investment products subject to performance fees underperform their respective benchmark index for a defined period, JCG's revenues and thus results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, performance fees subject JCG's revenues to increased volatility. JCG's results are dependent on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. The investment management business is highly dependent on the ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled and often highly specialized technical, executive, sales and investment management personnel. The market for qualified investment and sales professionals is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by the frequent movement of portfolio managers, analysts and salespersons among different firms. Any changes to management structure, shifts in corporate culture, changes to corporate governance authority, or adjustments or reductions to compensation could affect JCG's ability to retain key personnel and could result in legal claims. If JCG is unable to retain key personnel, it could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG is dependent upon third-party distribution channels to access clients and potential clients. JCG's ability to market and distribute its investment products is significantly dependent on access to the client base of insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators, securities firms, broker-dealers, financial advisors, banks and other distribution channels. These companies generally offer their clients various investment products in addition to, and in competition with, JCG. Further, the separate account business uses referrals from financial planners, investment advisers and other professionals. JCG cannot be certain that it will continue to have access to these third-party distribution channels or have an opportunity to offer some or all of its investment products through these channels. In addition, JCG's existing relationships with third-party distributors and access to new distributors could be adversely affected by recent consolidation within the financial services industry. Consolidation may result in increased distribution costs, a reduction in the number of third parties distributing JCG's investment products or increased competition to access third-party distribution channels. The inability to access clients through third-party distribution channels could adversely affect JCG's business prospects, assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents INTECH's investment process is highly dependent on key employees and proprietary software. INTECH's investment process is based on complex and proprietary mathematical models that seek to outperform various indices by capitalizing on the volatility in stock price movements while controlling trading costs and overall risk relative to the index. The maintenance of such models for current products and the development of new products are highly dependent on certain key INTECH employees. If INTECH is unable to retain key personnel or properly transition key personnel responsibilities to others, or if the mathematical investment strategies fail to produce the intended results, INTECH may not be able to maintain its historical level of investment performance, which could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the value of seeded investment products could affect JCG's nonoperating income or earnings and could increase the volatility of its earnings. JCG periodically adds new investment strategies to its investment product offerings by providing the initial cash investment or "seeding" to facilitate the launch of the product. JCG may also provide substantial supplemental capital to an existing investment product in order to accelerate the growth of a strategy and attract outside investment in the product. A decline in the valuation of these seeded investments could increase the volatility of JCG's earnings and result in a decline in earnings and financial condition. JCG's international operations are subject to foreign risks, including political, regulatory, economic and currency risks. JCG operates offices and advises clients outside of the U.S., and is thereby subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally. These risks may include changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in collecting investment management fees receivable; different, and in some cases less stringent, legal, regulatory and accounting regimes; political instability; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; expatriation controls; expropriation risks; and potential adverse tax consequences. These or other risks related to JCG's international operations could adversely affect the Company's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. The regulatory environment in which JCG operates has changed and may continue to change. JCG may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations, or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. The Company has increased its product offerings and international business activities over the past several years, resulting in increased exposure to international regulation. The costs and burdens of compliance with these and other new reporting and operational requirements and regulations have increased significantly and may continue to increase the cost of operating mutual funds and other investment products, which could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. (See Part I, Item 1, Business — Regulation, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.) 10 Table of Contents Any damage to JCG's reputation could harm its business and lead to a loss of assets under management, revenues and net income. JCG's reputation is critical to the success of its business. Any damage to the Company's reputation could impede its ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG's business may be vulnerable to failures or breaches in support systems and client service functions, and may be subject to cyberattacks. The ability to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions and provide reports and other client services to the shareholders of funds and other investment products managed by JCG is essential to JCG's operations. Any delays, errors or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing client transactions or providing reports, and any other inadequacies in other client service functions could discourage clients, result in financial loss and potentially give rise to regulatory action and claims against JCG. Any failures of the Company's systems could adversely affect JCG's results of operations and financial condition, assets under management, and ability to maintain confidential information relating to its clients and business operations. JCG's client service capabilities as well as JCG's ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process client transactions and reports are significantly dependent on communication and information systems and services provided by third-party vendors. Also, JCG's established disaster recovery plans could suffer failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and backup procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions. Furthermore, JCG places significant reliance on its automated systems, thereby increasing the related risks if such systems were to fail. A failure of third-party systems or services, disaster recovery plans or automated systems could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG maintains confidential information relating to its clients and business operations. Authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. JCG's systems could be infiltrated by unauthorized users or damaged by computer viruses or other malicious software code as a result of cyberattacks by computer programmers or hackers. While JCG has established business continuity plans and risk management systems designed to prevent or reduce the severity of any such improprieties or cyberattacks, there are inherent limitations in such plans and systems including the possibility that certain risks have not been identified. JCG also cannot directly control any cybersecurity plans and systems put in place by third-party service providers. Unauthorized or inadvertent disclosure of confidential or proprietary information or cyberattacks could be detrimental to JCG's reputation and lead to legal claims, negative publicity, regulatory action, increased costs or loss of revenue, among other things, all of which could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG's business is dependent on investment management agreements that are subject to termination, non-renewal or reductions in fees. JCG derives revenue from investment management agreements with mutual funds and other investment products. With respect to investment management agreements with mutual funds, these agreements may be terminated by either party with notice, or terminated in the event of an "assignment" (as defined in the 1940 Act), and must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of each fund's board of directors or trustees or its shareowners, as required by law. In addition, the board of directors or trustees of certain funds generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason and without penalty. The 11 Table of Contents termination of or failure to renew one or more of these agreements or the reduction of the fee rates applicable to such agreements could have a material adverse effect on JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG's financial results could be adversely affected by the financial stability of other financial institutions. JCG routinely executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial services industry. Historical market volatility highlights the interconnection of the global markets and demonstrates how the deteriorating financial condition of one institution may materially and adversely affect the performance of other institutions. JCG may be exposed to operational, credit or other risks in the event that a counterparty with whom the Company transacts defaults on its obligations or if there are other unrelated systemic failures in the markets. JCG's indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. JCG's indebtedness could limit its ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt servicing requirements or other purposes. Debt servicing requirements increase JCG's vulnerability to adverse economic, market and industry conditions; limit JCG's flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in business operations or to the asset management industry overall; and place JCG at a disadvantage in relation to competitors that have lower debt levels. Any or all of the above events and factors could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. JCG is periodically involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory matters and may be involved in such proceedings in the future. JCG and its employees are periodically involved in various legal proceedings and regulatory matters. These matters could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, JCG and its employees have received and may receive in the future requests for information in connection with certain investigations or proceedings from various governmental and regulatory authorities. These investigations or proceedings may result in increased costs or reputational harm to the Company, which may lower sales and increase redemptions. JCG operates in a highly competitive environment and its current fee structure may be reduced. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. JCG's current fee structure may be subject to downward pressure due to these factors. Moreover, in recent years there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. Fee reductions on existing or future new business as well as changes in regulations pertaining to its fee structure could adversely affect JCG's results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, JCG competes with investment management companies on the basis of investment performance, fees, diversity of products, distribution capability, reputation and the ability to develop new investment products to meet the changing needs of investors. Failure to adequately compete could adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions expose JCG to risks inherent in acquiring a company. JCG has and may acquire or invest in businesses that the Company believes will add value to its business and generate positive net returns. These acquisitions and investments may not be effective, and could result in decreased earnings and harm to the Company's competitive position in the investment management industry. 12 Table of Contents Any strategic transaction can involve a number of risks, such as additional demands on JCG's existing employees and unanticipated problems regarding integration of products, technologies and new employees. As a result, the Company may not be able to realize all of the benefits that it hoped to achieve from such transactions. In addition, entering new jurisdictions or managing new products involves numerous risks such as adhering to new regulations, foreign currency exposure and the integration of new products into JCG's existing operations. JCG may be required to spend additional time or money on integration which could decrease its earnings and prevent the Company from focusing on the development and expansion of its existing business and services. JCG has significant goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to impairment. Goodwill and intangible assets totaled $2.0 billion at December 31, 2015. The value of these assets may not be realized for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, significant redemptions, loss of clients, damage to brand name and unfavorable economic conditions. JCG has recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the past and could incur similar charges in the future. JCG reviews the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets not subject to amortization on an annual basis, or more frequently if indications exist suggesting that the fair value of its intangible assets may be below their carrying value. JCG evaluates the value of intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Should such reviews indicate impairment, a reduction of the carrying value of the intangible asset could occur, resulting in a charge that may, in turn, adversely affect JCG's assets under management, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 