Item 1A. Risk Factors. All of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and financial results. The recent turmoil in the global economy and the financial markets, and the related economic downturn, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Current global economic and financial market conditions, and the potential for a significant and prolonged global economic recession, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. These conditions also could materially impact our members, including our large accounts, causing them to go out of business entirely; defer purchasing their first product; defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of memberships they purchase from us in the future; or terminate existing memberships during the membership term under our service guarantee. These conditions also could materially impact our vendors, causing them to go out of business entirely or be unable or unwilling to meet their commitments to us. Changes of this type could significantly affect our business and liquidity or could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the current global economic conditions could reduce the overall demand for professional information services as global companies consolidate purchasing, downsize departmental budgets, and reduce company-wide discretionary spending. While we market and sell our products throughout the year, approximately 35% of our sales and renewals historically have taken place in the fourth quarter of the year. Significant volatility or weakness in economic conditions during the fourth quarter could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. We may fail to attract new members to our programs, obtain renewals from existing members, and sell additional programs to existing members. We derive most of our revenues from annual memberships for our products and services. Our revenue growth depends on our ability to attract prospects to their first membership; sustain high renewal rate of existing memberships and sell additional products and services to existing members. Failure to achieve new member and member renewal rate levels or to cross-sell additional memberships to existing members at the level we forecast could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may experience difficulty collecting membership fees as a result of deteriorating operating conditions at our member institutions, resulting from current market conditions. While we believe we have a stable member base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if current market conditions continue to deteriorate, we may experience increased turnover in our member base, including reductions in their commitments to us, which could have a 5 material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our members, including our large accounts, to make required payments. Such losses historically have been within our expectations and the provisions established. In light of the current turmoil in the worldwide economy, we have increased these provisions; however, we cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of the current economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, and the negative impact of such events on our members’ ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all may be more severe than we have anticipated. Payment delinquencies at higher rates than we have estimated would adversely affect our operating results. If we do not retain members for the duration of their membership terms we could suffer a loss of revenue due to our service guarantee. We offer a service guarantee to members under which a member may request a refund of the membership fee for a research program during the membership term. Refunds are provided on a pro-rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds by a significant number of our members could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. We maintain allowances for estimated losses resulting from members’ refund requests. In light of the current market conditions, we have increased these provisions, however, we cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of the current economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, and the negative impact of such events on our members’ decisions to request refunds may be more severe than we have anticipated. Failure to retain members for the duration of their membership term at the level we forecast could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The current conditions in the global economy and the financial market could make it more difficult for us to anticipate member needs and demands and provide relevant support. Our products and services provide insights and information to business executives and professionals. Particularly in light of rapidly changing global economic conditions, our continuing and future success depends upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing market trends and adapt our research, analysis, new product development, and sales and service model to the changing information needs of our members. The industry and business sectors that we analyze are undergoing frequent and often dramatic changes, including the introduction of new products and the obsolescence of old products, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of users of members’ products and services. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research and analysis on issues of importance. If we fail to continue to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends, to introduce relevant new products, or to serve members in a manner that meets their evolving needs, we may experience increased member turnover, lower new member and renewal rates, and decreased cross-selling of additional products to existing members, which would adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Our announced business restructuring plan may be unsuccessful or may have unanticipated negative results. In January 2009, we announced adoption of a plan to restructure our business. This restructuring includes a reduction in our workforce; a realignment of products and services, including consolidation or retirement of certain products, to focus on five corporate decision centers; and the implementation of a new, integrated approach to prospect and member account management. Because our restructuring plan involves significant changes to our business and operations, it creates risk and uncertainty. While the restructuring plan is intended to enhance our product and service offerings, strengthen our relations with existing and prospective members, revise our sales and service model, and improve our efficiency as an organization, we may not realize some or any of these intended benefits. The plan may not have identified the appropriate products to consolidate or retire, and additional consolidation and/or retirement may be required. The plan may not have sufficiently reduced our workforce, and additional reductions may be required. The plan may adversely affect our relationships with existing and prospective members, causing them to defer joining their first program, reduce the number of programs they join, cancel or choose not to renew existing 6 memberships, or terminate their memberships before the end of the term under our service guarantee. The plan also could have a negative effect on our relationships with current and former employees, harm their morale and productivity, increase employee attrition, and damage our ability to recruit new employees. If we do not realize the intended benefits of the restructuring, or if the restructuring has these or other negative effects, our business, financial results, and reputation may be harmed. We may not compete successfully and, as a result, may experience reduced demand for our products and services. The information and professional services industry is a highly competitive industry with numerous differentiators, including quality of the network, pricing, quality of research and analysis, breadth of databases, and service. We compete against traditional consulting firms, training and development firms, trade associations, nonprofit organizations, and research and database companies. We also compete against providers of free content over the Internet and through other delivery channels. Our failure to compete effectively, both in terms of product quality and in terms of price, with our competition could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Continued turmoil, consolidation, and business failures in the global financial services industry may cause us to lose additional members. A number of our products and services provide insights and information to executives and professionals in the global financial services sector. The global financial services sector has been experiencing turmoil, consolidation, and business failures since the second half of 2007. The turmoil, consolidation, and business failures have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in a reduction in the number of members and prospective members from the global financial services sector. In 2008, we experienced material declines in our total Contract Value resulting from large companies who experienced disruptive economic distress themselves, or from other companies that disappeared entirely. At December 31, 2008, approximately 22% of our Contract Value was attributable to members in the global financial services sector, which includes commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, consumer credit lenders, brokerage houses, private and trust banks and insurance companies. Additional turmoil, consolidation, and business failures in the global financial services sector could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Our international operations involve financial, regulatory, and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations. We are scaling our infrastructure to support our businesses outside the U.S. We sell our membership programs in approximately fifty countries outside of the U.S., and those international sales account for approximately 30% of our total revenues. Our international operations involve financial, regulatory, and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations, including: cultural and language differences, limited brand recognition for The Corporate Executive Board outside of the U.S., less favorable employment laws that could affect our relations with our employees, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, different regulatory requirements and compliance obligations, reliance on technology, difficulties in managing overseas operations, higher operating costs, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings, differing accounting principles and standards, potentially adverse tax consequences, different and potentially less stable political environments for our employees and our members, and catastrophic events that could interrupt or adversely effect operations. Our failure to manage our international operations effectively could adversely affect our operating results, limit growth, and damage our reputation. Our transition to an integrated account management model may be unsuccessful or may have unanticipated negative results. In 2008, we began moving to a closer integration of our sales and service operations to increase individual member impact, with completion targeted in 2009. While the integrated sales and service model is intended to strengthen our relations with existing and prospective members 7 and deliver greater value to them from our products and services, we may not realize some or any of these intended benefits. The integrated sales and service model may adversely affect our relationships with existing and prospective members, causing them to defer joining their first program, reduce the number of programs they join, cancel or choose not to renew existing memberships, or terminate their memberships before the end of the term under our service guarantee. Our transition to an integrated account management model will require our sales and service staff to learn new skills, roles, and responsibilities. Our failure to adequately train employees for new account management roles could result in a failure to achieve our sales goals, which could adversely affect our financial results. It also could reduce employee morale and productivity, increase employee attrition, and damage our ability to recruit new employees. Our acquisitions involve financial and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our existing operations. We make acquisitions that bring us capabilities and intellectual properties that address gaps in member needs and workflows. The acquisitions generally do not represent immediate material changes to our revenues and earnings. These acquisitions could require significant capital infusions. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities or by securing a bank credit facility. Any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our acquisitions could involve financial and business risks that differ from or are in additional to those faced by our U.S. operations, including: difficulties integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products, vendors, and information systems of the companies we acquire; failure to retain key personnel; the acquisition of products with lower gross margins than our customary product; and exposure under arrangements such as earn-outs. These risks could adversely affect our operating results and limit future growth. Acquisitions may involve additional costs and can result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording and later amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which items could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be subject to additional impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. As a result of our acquisitions, particularly that of Information Technology Toolbox, Inc. (now doing business as Toolbox.com), we have goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. We test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis as required, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization and changes in our estimated future cash flows, as well as changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment loss of $23.2 million. We will continue to evaluate the carrying value of our remaining goodwill and intangible assets, and if we determine in the future that there is a potential further impairment, we may be required to record additional losses, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. The potential for goodwill impairment is increased during a period of substantial economic volatility (as we are now experiencing), to the extent we acquire a company at a negotiated price, based on anticipated future performance, and subsequent declining market conditions result in the acquired business performing at a lower level than was anticipated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these charges would reduce our reported results and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. A prolonged downturn in the U.S. or global economy may result in declining performance that would require us to examine our goodwill for potential additional impairment. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to impairment of goodwill. 8 We may be unable to attract and retain highly skilled management and employees. Our continued and future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, and retain highly skilled management and employees, particularly senior leaders, research analysts, and sales and marketing staff. As a result of the global economic conditions, we have implemented management and staff reductions that will reduce our workforce by approximately 15% through current reductions and unfilled positions. For our continuing management and employees, we may adjust compensation packages to remain competitive in light of the decline in the value of our stock price, and because we expect to continue to experience intense competition for our professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of professional information services. If we fail to attract, train, and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled management and employees in the future, our financial results and future growth will be adversely affected. We may fail to implement, maintain, and upgrade the technology and information infrastructure that supports our products and services. We serve our global membership through a technology and information management infrastructure. Among other functions, we use our technology and information management infrastructure, as well as the technology and information management infrastructure of vendors, to promote, sell, service, develop, store, and deliver our products and services to members; as well as to bill, collect, and make payments related to our products and services. Our failure to make capital expenditures in this infrastructure and to update the infrastructure in order to meet our members’ demands for products and services; and to address information security, privacy, data management, and other concerns with our infrastructure and the infrastructure of our vendors, both in the U.S. and internationally, could adversely affect our operating results, future performance, and reputation. In many countries and in individual states within the U.S., the rules governing information security, privacy, and related concerns are evolving and may be stricter than the equivalent rules in the U.S. Our failure to optimize the use of the technology and information infrastructure, to properly anticipate or meet member demands and expectations, or to address the evolving regulatory environment governing our use of technology and information could adversely affect our operating results, limit our future growth, and harm our reputation. Our failure to protect our technology and information infrastructure from natural disasters, power loss, malicious and negligent actions by employees or third parties, and other failures, could result in interruptions to our business and operations, which could adversely affect our financial results, future growth, and reputation. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements with employees, members, and third-parties, as well as copyright and other laws, to protect our proprietary rights in our products, services, and other proprietary information. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter negligent or intentional misappropriation of our intellectual property or confidential information, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our products and services would be adversely affected. We may be exposed to litigation related to the content we publish. As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis, a user of third-party content, and an on-line content provider through Toolbox.com and other services, we face potential liability for trademark and copyright infringement and other claims based on the material we publish. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to additional income and other tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income and other taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, there could be changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations that could have a negative impact on our financial results or condition. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, which is intended to protect principal and liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid U.S. Treasury obligations with maturities of less than three months. Marketable securities consist primarily of U.S. Treasury notes and Washington, D.C. tax exempt bonds. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit ratings related to the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our portfolio is subject to interest rate risk as investments mature and are reinvested at current market interest rates. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. In an environment of generally low interests rates, as currently exists, we will likely realize lower interest income on our investments, which will reduce our overall earnings. In a volatile interest rate environment, we may have investments that pay interest at rates below then-current market rates, and we may not be able to reinvest quickly enough to take advantage of short-term rate increases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 9 