ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Extensive Regulation Of Our Business If we fail to follow extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. We derive a majority of our revenues on a cash basis from federal student financial aid programs. To participate in such programs an institution must obtain and maintain authorization by the appropriate state agencies, accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the ED, and certification by the ED. As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulation by these agencies that, among other things, requires us to: • undertake steps to assure that our schools do not have Cohort Default Rates of 25% or more for three consecutive Cohort years; • limit the percentage of revenues (on a cash basis) derived at each of our institutions from federal student financial aid programs to less than 90%; • adhere to financial responsibility and administrative capability standards; • prohibit the payment of certain incentives to personnel engaged in student recruiting, admissions activities or awarding financial aid; • achieve stringent completion and placement outcomes for short-term programs; and • make timely refunds of tuition when a student withdraws from one of our institutions. These regulations also affect our ability to acquire or open additional schools or change our corporate structure. These regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer fines, penalties or other sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs at those schools, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements in the future. Some of the most significant regulatory requirements and risks that apply to our schools are described in the following paragraphs. Congress may change eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs, or other governmental or regulatory bodies may change similar laws or regulations relating to other student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our business. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. On July 31, 2008, Congress passed the reauthorization of the HEA, which became law when President Bush signed it on August 14, 2008. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or ED that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. In September 2007, Congress passed, and the President signed, legislation which, among other things, decreased private lender and guaranty agency yields for participation in the FFEL programs, decreased student interest rates on FFEL loans, and limited repayment obligations for students who receive loans pursuant to Title IV programs. Decreased yields could discourage Title IV lenders from continuing to provide private, federally guaranteed Title IV loans to our students. The recently-passed HEA reauthorization would add new notification and certification requirements to private non-Title IV program educational loans and make them subject to the Truth in Lending Act requirements and potential liabilities, which could adversely affect private lenders’ willingness and ability to make such loans and thereby affect our students’ ability to access private student loans. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV and alternative loan programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, the availability or attractiveness of alternative loans, or the ability of our schools or students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legislative action also could increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by the ED, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of the ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, the ED calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution’s financial responsibility or “composite score.” If an institution’s score is above 1.5, it may continue its participation in federal student financial aid programs. For fiscal 2008, our calculations show that all of our schools exceed this requirement on an individual basis and are eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, with composite scores ranging from 1.5 to 3.0. On a consolidated basis, we also exceed this requirement with the composite score of 2.0. We cannot assure you that we and our institutions will continue to satisfy the numeric standards in the future. 24 Table of Contents Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Prior to the enactment of the 2008 Act, proprietary institution would lose its eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs for a period of one year if it derived more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from these programs in any fiscal year. Any institution that violated this rule immediately became ineligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs and would be ineligible to reapply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. Under the 2008 Act, an institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years would become immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would not be permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of two fiscal years. Effective July 1, 2008, the annual unsubsidized Stafford loans available for undergraduate students under the FFEL program increased by $2,000 which, coupled with recent increases in grants from the Pell program and other Title IV loan limits, will result in some of our schools experiencing an increase in the revenues they receive from Title IV programs. The recently passed 2008 Act contains relief from recent increases in the availability and amount of federal aid by, among other things, for all unsubsidized Stafford loans disbursed before July 1, 2011, permitting the $2,000 of additional Stafford loan availability to be counted as revenue not derived from Title IV programs. Additionally, for the Company’s fiscal years ending on or before June 30, 2012, the 2008 Act permits loans made by the Company to its students to count as non-Title IV revenue when earned, not when the loans are repaid as was the case for fiscal years 2008 and prior. Based on our calculations, none of our institutions received more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, in fiscal 2008, with our highest institution receiving 88.6% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs. On a consolidated basis, we received 81.0% of our revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs in fiscal 2008. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, loses eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if their current and former students’ loan default rates on federally guaranteed student loans made by third parties are too high. Prior to the enactment of the 2008 Act, an institution could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its former students on their federally guaranteed student loans funded by third parties equal or exceed 25% per year for three consecutive years. For federal fiscal year 2005, the last year for which final rates have been published, default rates for our institutions range from a low of 2.5% to a high of 17.7%. Under the 2008 Act, a separate calculation will be performed that will add an additional federal fiscal year of borrowers’ repayment performance. After three years of Cohort Default Rates calculated with the additional federal fiscal are available, sanctions will be imposed if an institution has a Cohort Default Rate, under the new calculation, of more than 30% for three consecutive federal fiscal years. We review all annually published Cohort Default Rates and appeal the rates we believe are inaccurate. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if they do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that was disbursed to students who withdrew from their educational programs before completing them, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution was found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. If regulators do not approve our acquisitions, the acquired school(s) would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. When we acquire an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, we must seek approval from the ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, because an acquisition is considered a change of ownership or control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. A change of ownership or control of an institution under the ED standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution’s participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the ED and the ED issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from the state agencies, accrediting agencies or ED for any institution we may acquire in the future, depending on the size of that acquisition, such a failure to obtain approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Additionally, if regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control of the Company, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. If we experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies or the ED, we or the affected institutions must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Some of these transactions or events, such as a significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock by third parties on the open market or through a tender offer, may be beyond our control. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control could also discourage bids for our outstanding shares of common stock at a premium and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents If any of our U.S. schools fails to maintain its accreditation or its state authorization, that institution may lose its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant agencies of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among the states. Additionally, both an approval to operate in a state and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the ED are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. If any of our U.S. campuses were to lose its accreditation or its state authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. In a letter received from ACCSCT dated December 7, 2007, the Company was informed of a show cause action regarding our Everest College in North Aurora, Illinois. In a letter from ABHES dated December 18, 2007, the Company was informed of a show cause action of our campus in Atlanta, Georgia, and its branches in Marietta and Jonesboro, Georgia. The Company has transitioned the Marietta and Jonesboro, Georgia, campuses from branches of our Atlanta, Georgia, campus to branches of other main campuses that currently do not have any regulatory or accreditation matters, and has taught out the campus in Atlanta, Georgia as of June 30, 2008. The show cause order regarding Atlanta and its branch campuses was subsequently vacated by ABHES. In a letter from ACCSCT dated March 7, 2008, the Company was informed of a show cause action regarding our Everest College in Alhambra, CA. In a letter from ACCSCT dated August 14, 2008, the Company was informed the show cause action regarding its Alhambra campus had been vacated. In another letter from ACCSCT dated March 7, 2008, the Company was informed of a show cause action regarding our Everest College in San Jose, CA. With respect to the schools identified above which have outstanding Show Cause orders, each of these locations represented less than 1.4% of our campuses’ fiscal 2008 operating profit (before corporate overhead allocation) individually, and less than 1.5% in aggregate. If any of these campuses were to lose their accreditation, the Company would continue to generate revenues from continuing students, but would consider teaching out these campuses as they would be significantly competitively disadvantaged compared to other schools where students are eligible to receive federal student financial aid. During any teach-out process, the Company’s revenue would decline more rapidly than operating expenses and the Company would expect to incur operating losses at those campuses. The Company could also expect to incur increased bad debt expense if students no longer have access to federal financial aid. Additionally, if the Company were to lose accreditation at one or more of its schools to which it has ascribed value for accreditation as part of purchase accounting, the Company would test the amounts it had allocated to such asset for impairment. If the estimate of the present value of these future cash flows were below the carrying values of the accreditation asset, the Company would consider its related accreditation asset to be impaired and take a charge against the amounts it had allocated to such accreditation. If we fail to demonstrate “administrative capability” to the ED, our business could suffer. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in federal student financial aid programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; and • submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, the ED may: • require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the “reimbursement” system of payment or cash monitoring; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in federal student financial aid programs. Should one or more of our institutions be limited in their access to, or lose, federal student financial aid funds due to their failure to demonstrate administrative capability, our business could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, commence investigations, bring claims or institute litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject from time to time to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the “reimbursement” or “heightened cash monitoring” method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. 26 Table of Contents Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. During the past several years, we and other companies in the for-profit postsecondary education industry have been subject to increased regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the Justice Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the ED, state agencies, accrediting agencies and other entities. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the for-profit postsecondary education industry in general, our business and the market price of our common stock. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. An institution participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the ED determined that one of our institution’s compensation practices violated these standards, the ED could subject the institution to monetary fines, penalties, or other sanctions. Additionally, the Company has been, and may in the future be, the subject of qui tam actions in federal court by former employees on behalf of themselves and the federal government alleging violations of False Claims act because of alleged violations of the incentive compensation prohibitions in the HEA. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any substantial fine or penalty or other sanction levied against one or more of our schools could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with extensive Canadian regulations could affect the ability of our Canadian schools to participate in Canadian financial aid programs. Our post-secondary schools in Canada derive a significant percentage of their revenue on a cash basis from Canadian governmental financial aid programs, and our Canadian students receive loans under student financial aid programs. Our Canadian schools must meet eligibility standards to administer these programs and must comply with extensive statutes, rules, regulations and requirements. If our Canadian schools cannot meet these and other eligibility standards or fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the Canadian and Ontario provincial governments continuously review the legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student financial assistance programs due to political and budgetary pressures. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the funding for these programs, any change that significantly reduces funding or the ability of our schools to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational Risks That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business If our students are unable to obtain private loans from third party lenders, our business could be adversely affected. The education finance industry has been experiencing and may continue to experience problems that have resulted in fewer overall financing options for some of our students. Factors that could impact the general availability of loans to our students include: • changes in overall economic conditions or overall uncertainty or disruption in capital markets, in either case causing lenders to cease making student loans, limit the volume or types of loans made or impose more stringent eligibility or underwriting standards; • the financial condition and continued financial viability of student loan providers; • changes in applicable laws or regulations, such as provisions of the recently-passed HEA reauthorization that impose new disclosure and certification requirements with respect to private educational loans, that could have the effect of reducing the availability of education financing, including as a result of any lenders choosing to provide fewer loans or to stop providing loans altogether in light of increased regulation, or which could increase the costs of student loans; or • determinations by lenders to reduce the number of loans, or to cease making loans altogether, to students attending or planning to attend certain types of schools, particularly for-profit schools. Private loans constituted approximately 13% of our U.S. revenue (on a cash basis) in fiscal 2007, and approximately 11% in fiscal 2008. These loans were provided pursuant to private loan programs with third party lenders and were made available to eligible students at our schools to fund a portion of the students’ costs of education not covered by federal financial aid. On January 18, 2008, we received a letter from Sallie Mae indicating that it was exiting the subprime lending business for private student loans. Thus, effective March 1, 2008, Sallie Mae no longer provided private loans for Corinthian students in the subprime credit category. In addition to terminating their lending to “subprime” students, Sallie Mae and other lenders made the underwriting criteria used in their standard private loan programs more stringent. The consumer credit markets in the United States have recently suffered from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages, which in some cases have called into question the continued financial viability of certain student loan providers and has resulted in fewer providers of student loans. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative student loans have also experienced recent increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans have resulted in providers of alternative loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of alternative loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in post-secondary education programs. Certain private lenders have also required that we pay them new or increased fees in order to provide alternative loans to prospective students. While we are taking steps to address the private loan needs of our students, the inability of our students to finance their education could cause our student population to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have developed a new student loan program that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have developed a new student loan program (“ACCESS”) that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This ACCESS loan program enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and are ineligible for private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools if they or a co-borrower meet certain criteria. Historically, we had several loan programs with origination and servicing providers such as Sallie Mae for students with low credit scores who otherwise would not qualify for loans. These loan programs required that we pay a discount fee to the origination and servicing providers of the loans as a reserve against future defaults on these loans. We have historically referred to these types of loans as “discount loans,” since we incurred a portion of the default risk related to these students’ loans by taking a discount on the disbursement. Effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2008 we were informed by Sallie Mae and two other origination and servicing providers that they would no longer make private loans available for students who present higher credit risks (i.e. subprime borrowers). In the face of this change in policy, we created the ACCESS lending program with a different origination and servicing provider who specializes in subprime credit that has characteristics similar to our previous “discount loan” programs. Under this new program, we pay a discount to the origination and servicing provider. As with our previous discount loan program, we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, as the collectability of these amounts is not reasonably assured. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our ACCESS program we have both the right and the obligation (subject to certain limitations in our agreement with the origination and servicing provider), to acquire the related loans. Since we initiated the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we have acquired all of the loans that have been originated. We currently anticipate that we will acquire and fund approximately $95 million in ACCESS loans during fiscal 2009. For ACCESS loans that we acquire, we will bear the risks of collection. Thus, even though we will record the discount as a reduction to revenue, to the extent collections are less than the net amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and our bad debt expense may increase. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers’ performance and the priority that borrowers under this ACCESS loan program, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. We also expect our notes and accounts receivable and days sales outstanding to increase from prior years. A number of factors also may contribute to fewer students participating in the ACCESS program than we currently expect. Students may believe that loans under this program are unattractive, or we may find that fewer students qualify for the program than we anticipate. If that occurs, fewer students may attend our schools. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we would purchase under this ACCESS program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the new student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the new student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. We rely on a single company to provide financial aid processing for our students. If that company fails or refuses to timely provide such service, or materially increases its fees, our business could be harmed. We utilize a single company to provide the financial aid packaging and processing for our students’ financial aid. We have experienced periodic delays or backlogs of financial aid processing when this company’s resources have become overburdened. If this company were to cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in financial aid processing for our students. Although we believe we could find alternative service providers or we could begin to process financial aid in-house, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative service providers that will be as favorable as the one we have now. For example, new service providers may have higher prices, lower capacity, lower quality standards or longer delivery times. If we are unable to provide financial aid processing for our students in a timely and accurate manner, or if such services are delayed or becomes more expensive, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business will be harmed. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 Table of Contents Failure to effectively grow our revenues or reduce our expenses could harm our business. From the inception of our business through fiscal 2004, we rapidly grew our company through both acquisitions and new branch campuses. Our rapid growth in capacity resulted in additional operating expenses that have not been offset by higher revenues during the last four fiscal years. Accordingly, our operating margins have been significantly compressed. If we are unable to effectively grow our revenues or reduce our expenses, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our marketing and advertising efforts may not be effective in attracting prospective students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in an effective and efficient manner. Over the last several fiscal years, we have increased the amounts spent on marketing and advertising, and we anticipate that this trend will continue. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our revenue and margins may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. If we cannot effectively identify, acquire and integrate additional schools, it could harm our business. We expect to continue to rely on acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We often engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible acquisition candidates. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire any of the acquisition candidates on favorable terms. Furthermore, we cannot make assurances that any acquired schools can be successfully integrated into our operations or be operated profitably. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that include: • diversion of management resources; • integration of the acquired schools’ operations; • adverse short-term effects on reported operating results; and • possible loss of key employees. Continued growth through acquisitions may also subject us to unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities. When we acquire an existing school, we typically allocate a significant portion of the purchase price to fixed assets, curriculum, goodwill and intangibles, such as covenants not-to-compete, trade names and accreditations. For our acquisitions through fiscal 2002, we amortized goodwill and trade names over a period of 40 years and curricula over 3 to 15 years. Effective July 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, “Accounting for Business Combinations, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” in its entirety. Under SFAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized on a periodic basis, but instead is subject to an impairment test to be performed at least on an annual basis. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have indefinite lives will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school’s participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains the ED’s approval. If we fail to successfully manage our acquisitions, our business would likely suffer. Failure to effectively manage opening new schools and adding new services could harm our business. Establishing new schools requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. To open a new school, we are also required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, the new school is required to be certified as eligible to receive Title IV funds by the ED. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully open new schools in the future. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We depend on key personnel, including Jack D. Massimino, Peter C. Waller, Kenneth S. Ord, Beth A. Wilson, William B. Buchanan, Mark L. Pelesh, Stan A. Mortensen, Robert C. Owen and David A. Poldoian, to effectively operate our business. If any of these people left our Company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new people, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and campus support center management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay, defer or inhibit a future acquisition of our Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. By using preferred stock, we could: • discourage a proxy contest; • make the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult; or • limit the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents We face litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our schools are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving our current and former students, alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage or current reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We could also incur substantial legal costs, and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Please see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for more detailed information on these litigation risks. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our business. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Educational programs at our schools, particularly programs in information technology, must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive, and has become ever more so over the past several years. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer on-line learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to those of our schools. Although tuition at many private non-profit institutions is higher than tuition at our schools, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could reduce our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and access to our credit facility that expires in July 2010 will be adequate to fund our currently identified plans. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to carry out our strategy of growth through acquisitions. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary depending on the timing and size of acquisitions, our availability to access credit markets, and the sellers’ willingness to provide financing themselves. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes or economic downturns occur in specific geographic areas where we have a high concentration of schools, our business could be harmed. We have large numbers of schools concentrated in certain geographic areas. For instance, we have a high concentration of schools in California, Florida, Texas, Georgia, Michigan, the Province of Ontario and other states and cities. We expect to continue to have high concentrations of schools in large metropolitan areas as we create new branch campuses and acquire new schools. These geographic concentrations may change or intensify over time. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes, economic developments or other adverse events occur or are more intensively felt in some of these concentrated geographic areas, our business and results of operations could be disproportionately affected compared to the rest of the United States and Canada. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 