ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Extensive Regulation Of Our Business If we fail to follow extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. We derive a majority of our revenues on a cash basis from federal student financial aid programs. In connection with the receipt of federal financial aid by our students, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the “HEA”), and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education (“ED”), subject us to significant regulatory scrutiny in the form of numerous standards that schools must satisfy in order to participate in the various federal financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA (“Title IV”). As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulations by these agencies that, among other things, require us to: • undertake steps to assure that our schools do not have Cohort Default Rates that exceed applicable limits; • limit the percentage of revenues (on a cash basis) derived at each of our institutions from federal student financial aid programs to less than 90%; • adhere to financial responsibility and administrative capability standards; • prohibit the payment of certain incentives to personnel engaged in student recruiting, admissions activities or awarding financial aid; • achieve stringent completion and placement outcomes for short-term programs; and • make timely refunds of tuition when a student withdraws from one of our institutions. These regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer fines, penalties or other sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs at those schools, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. The recently-enacted Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 eliminated the Federal Family Education Loan (“FFEL”) program so that our students may only receive federal student loans through the Federal Direct Loan program; the transition from the FFEL program to the FDL program involves risks and uncertainty for our institutions and students. Students at our U.S. institutions are currently eligible to receive loans to fund their education under the FFEL program and the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan (“FDL”) program. The FFEL program consists of Stafford Loans, which can be both subsidized and unsubsidized, and PLUS loans, which are made available to parents of students classified as dependents. Under the FDL program, students may obtain loans directly from ED rather than commercial lenders. The conditions on FDL loans are generally the same as on loans made under the FFEL program. In March 2010, Congress passed, and the President signed, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “HCERA”). The HCERA eliminated the FFEL program in favor of the FDL program effective as of July 1, 2010. While our institutions and students have been eligible to participate in the FDL program, we have significantly more experience in participation in the FFEL program and the transition to the FDL program for the majority of our students involves risks and uncertainty. For instance, we are uncertain (i) whether our institutions will be able to interface with the FDL origination and servicing functions at the significantly higher expected volumes without interruption or delays; (ii) whether FDL origination and servicing functions will have sufficient capacity to administer the expected significantly higher volume as all higher education institutions in the United States which are currently participating in the FFEL program transition to the FDL program; (iii) whether we could experience delays in receiving disbursements in Title IV funds for our students; and (iv) whether the federal government’s direct administration of the Title IV programs through the FDL will involve changes in the availability of traditional measures we and other private sector institutions have used to manage cohort default rates by, among other things, assisting students with obtaining forbearances, deferments, and income-based repayment. Additionally, because HCERA eliminates the FFEL program, many private lenders have exited the student loan market and may be unwilling to make private loans to our students. These changes may result in higher administrative costs for schools, including us, related to student loan administration. If the costs of Title IV loans increase and if availability of alternate student financial aid decreases, students may decide not to enroll in a postsecondary institution, which could have a material adverse effect on our enrollments, revenues, and results of operation. Any further actions by the Congress, ED or other regulatory bodies that significantly reduces funding for Title IV Programs or the ability of our students to participate in those program, reduces alternate sources of student financial aid, or establishes different or more stringent requirements for participation in Title IV Programs could have a material adverse effect on our student population, course offerings, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28 Table of Contents Congress may change eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs, or other governmental or regulatory bodies may change similar laws or regulations relating to other student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our business. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In mid-2008, Congress passed and the President signed the HEOA in order to reauthorize the HEA. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or ED that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. In September 2007, Congress passed, and the President signed, legislation which, among other things, decreased private lender and guaranty agency yields for participation in the FFEL programs, decreased student interest rates on FFEL loans, and limited repayment obligations for students who receive loans pursuant to Title IV programs. In the years that followed, many lenders discontinued their participation in the federally guaranteed Title IV loans program. The HEOA requires notification and certification requirements to private non-Title IV program educational loans and makes them subject to the Truth in Lending Act requirements and potential liabilities, which could adversely affect private lenders’ willingness and ability to make such loans and thereby affect our students’ ability to access private student loans. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV and alternative loan programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, the availability or attractiveness of alternative loans, or the ability of our schools or students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legislative action also could increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. Congress recently has commenced hearings and other examinations of the for-profit education sector that could result in further investigations, legislation, ED rulemaking, restrictions on Title IV Program participation by proprietary schools, or other actions that may materially and adversely affect our business. On June 17, 2010, the Education and Labor Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives held a hearing to examine the manner in which accrediting agencies review higher education institutions’ policies on credit hours and program length. On June 24, 2010, the HELP Committee held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector and released a report, “Emerging Risk?: An Overview of Growth, Spending, Student Debt and Unanswered Questions in For-Profit Higher Education.” On August 4, 2010, the HELP Committee held the second hearing in its series, focusing on student recruitment at for-profit schools. Earlier, on June 21, 2010, the Chairmen of each of these education committees, together with other members of Congress, requested the GAO to conduct a review and prepare a report with recommendations regarding various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in federal student aid programs and the degree to which proprietary institutions’ revenue is composed of Title IV and other federal funding sources. Prior to the HELP Committee’s hearing on August 4, 2010, the GAO conducted a series of undercover investigations into the enrollment and recruiting practices at fifteen for-profit institutions of higher education in which GAO investigators with hidden cameras posed as potential new student enrollees. We believe that two of our campuses, one of which was Everest College Phoenix, were among those visited by the GAO. At the HELP Committee hearing on August 4, 2010, the GAO provided testimony that characterized the interactions between our campus personnel and the GAO investigators as “deceptive or otherwise questionable.” We have requested copies of the videotaped interactions between the GAO investigators and our campus personnel, but our request was denied. Although impeded by this denial, we have nevertheless conducted a review of these allegations – assisted by outside counsel – and have not identified any intentional misconduct by our employees. We will continue to review any evidence provided by the GAO and will take appropriate actions based on any new evidence we obtain. Additionally, on August 12, 2010, the President of Everest College Phoenix received a letter from HLC requesting a response to the allegations contained in the GAO report. In addition to seeking a response to the specific circumstances identified in the GAO report, HLC requested that Everest College Phoenix demonstrate that it has reasonable, sufficient, and effective systems in place to assure appropriate control of employees engaged in the recruiting, marketing or admissions process. Everest College Phoenix is in the process of responding to HLC’s requests. These hearings and the GAO investigation are not formally related to ED’s rulemaking process currently underway. However, the hearings and the requested GAO review could affect the final rules or could lead to further investigations of proprietary schools and the proposal of additional new regulatory requirements by the ED. On August 5, we received a request for information from the HELP Committee relating to the ongoing series of hearings. We believe this request was extended to approximately thirty proprietary educational companies, including all such publicly traded companies. The request seeks information regarding how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans, track attendance, handle withdrawal of students and return of Title IV dollars and manage compliance with the 90/10 rule. The request also seeks information regarding the number of students who complete or graduate from our programs, how many of those students find work in their educational area, the debt levels of students enrolling and completing programs and information regarding the number of students who risk default within the cohort default rate window. 29 Table of Contents In furtherance of this, the HELP Committee has requested that we provide information about a broad spectrum of our business, including detailed information relating to financial results, management, operations, personnel, recruiting, enrollment, graduation, student withdrawals, receipt of Title IV Program funds, institutional accreditation, regulatory compliance and other matters. We intend to cooperate with the HELP Committee. The HELP Committee has requested that we produce a portion of the specified information by August 26, 2010 and the remainder of the information by September 16, 2010. We cannot predict the extent to which these hearings and review will result in further investigations, legislation or rulemaking affecting our participation in Title IV Programs or other aspects of our business. If any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV Programs or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, our business could be adversely and materially impacted. If any of our U.S. schools fails to maintain its accreditation or its state authorization, that institution may lose its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant agencies of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among the states. Additionally, both an approval to operate in a state and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the ED are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. If any of our U.S. campuses were to lose its accreditation or its state authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On May 1, 2009, the Company’s Everest College Phoenix received notification from HLC that it had been placed on probation. At June 30, 2010, the combined enrollment for Everest College Phoenix was 5,774 students, and combined revenue was approximately 5.8% of the Company’s total net revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. The probation action was initiated primarily related to governance issues and questions about the institution’s autonomy with respect to Corinthian’s ownership and control of the institution. The institution has made numerous changes to comply with HLC’s accreditation criteria and is committed to continuing make progress forward resolving HLC’s concerns. HLC indicated that the probationary process is a period during which it will verify that these changes have, in fact, occurred and effectively meet HLC’s standards. On May 17-19, 2010, Everest College Phoenix hosted an HLC evaluation team to verify whether these changes have occurred and effectively meet HLC’s standards. In its Report on a Comprehensive Evaluation Visit dated August 19, 2010, the evaluation team noted that while there have been some positive developments, deficiencies in the institution’s compliance with HLC’s accreditation criteria remained unresolved. The evaluation team concluded that adverse action by HLC was warranted, and recommended withdrawal of accreditation of Everest College Phoenix. The evaluation team’s report is one of several steps in HLC’s process of evaluating the institution’s probationary status. The Company and Everest College Phoenix disagree with the evaluation team’s conclusions and intend to contest the team’s recommendations before the Commission. The Company cannot predict the outcome of this matter with certainty, including without limitation, whether HLC will act or the evaluation team’s recommendations to withdraw accreditation of Everest College Phoenix. Since accreditation is required for an institution to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, the failure by Everest College Phoenix to satisfactorily resolve its probation with HLC could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Additionally, in December 2009, ED issued an “Alert Memorandum,” calling into question HLC’s compliance with the applicable ED regulations related to HLC’s status as an accrediting agency recognized by ED. Specifically, the OIG asserted that HLC did not make appropriate assessments as to credit hours with respect to the distance education programs at an HLC-accredited institution. As such, the OIG recommended that ED take action to determine whether HLC is in compliance with federal regulations related to the recognition of accrediting agencies and, if ED determines that if HLC is not in compliance with such regulations, take action to limit, suspend, or terminate HLC’s recognition by ED. Thereafter, in May 2010, the OIG issued a management report to HLC in which the OIG found that HLC does not have an established definition of credit hour or minimum requirements for program length and the assignment of credit hours, which the OIG asserted could result in inflated credit hours, the improper designation of full-time student status, and the over-awarding of Title IV Program funds. We are unable to predict if or how this matter will be resolved and whether it could impact us or other HLC-accredited institutions if ED were to limit, suspend, or terminate HLC’s recognition as an accrediting agency. Pending rulemaking by ED could result in regulatory changes that could materially adversely affect our business. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools, including ED, periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. On September 9, 2009, the Department published a notice in the Federal Register announcing its intent to establish two negotiated rulemaking committees to prepare proposed regulations under Title IV of the HEA. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. Under negotiated rulemaking, ED works to develop a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in collaboration with representatives of the parties who will be affected significantly by the regulations through a series of meetings during which the representatives work with the ED to come to consensus on the ED’s proposed regulations. One of the negotiating rulemaking committees addressed the following issues, many of which are relevant to the Company: satisfactory academic progress; monitoring grade point averages; incentive compensation; gainful employment in a recognized occupation; state authorization as a component of institutional eligibility; definition of a credit hour; verification of information included on a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA); definition of a high school diploma for purposes of establishing eligibility to participate in student financial aid programs; misrepresentation of information provided to students and prospective students; ability to benefit; agreements between institutions of higher education; retaking coursework; term-based module programs; institutions required to take attendance for purposes of the Return of Title IV Funds requirements; and timeliness and method of disbursement of Title IV funds. This negotiated rulemaking committee completed its work on January 29, 2010 without reaching consensus. Accordingly, under the negotiated rulemaking protocol, ED was free to propose rules without regard to the tentative agreement reached regarding certain of the rules. On June 18, 2010, ED issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (the “June NPRM”) following a year-long negotiated rulemaking process between ED and the higher education community on 14 Title IV Program integrity issues, which include lender and general student loan issues, accreditation, discretionary grants, general and non-loan programmatic issues, safe harbors under incentive compensation rules for admissions recruiters, and standards regarding state authorization for purposes of Title IV Program eligibility. The June NPRM addressed 13 of 14 program integrity issues in their entirety and partially addressed the 14th issue, which involves the definition of “gainful employment;” the ED issued a separate NPRM on gainful employment metrics on July 26, 2010 (the “July NPRM”). Public comment was due on the June NPRM no later than August 2, 2010 and for the July NPRM is due no later than September 9, 2010. The ED has stated that it intends to review all comments it receives with the goal of publishing a final rule by November 1, 2010, which would take effect beginning July 1, 2011. The two proposed program integrity rules that have the most significant potential impact for our business are the following: • the elimination of certain “safe harbors” regarding the prohibition on the payment of incentive compensation to employees involved in student recruitment and enrollment; and 30 Table of Contents • the adoption of a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the requirement for Title IV student financial aid that a program of study prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The statutory language of this prohibition does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but historically there have been twelve “safe harbors” that define specific types of compensation that are deemed not to constitute impermissible incentive compensation. Currently, we rely on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices comply with the statutory prohibition. In the June NPRM, ED proposed to eliminate all twelve safe harbors, and in lieu of the safe harbors, to take the position that any adjustment to compensation based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the incentive payment prohibition in the HEA. As proposed in the June NPRM, this prohibition would extend all the way to the senior management of an institution or organization. ED states that an institution still would be able to make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, but would not be permitted to consider nor base compensation directly or indirectly, in any part, on factors such as an employee’s success in securing student enrollments, the award of financial aid or institutional goals based on that success. If the final regulations are adopted as proposed, we may have to change some of our compensation practices for admissions representatives and others. This could adversely affect our ability to compensate our admissions representatives and other employees in a manner that appropriately reflects their job performance, which in turn could reduce their effectiveness and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified and competent personnel. In addition, a lack of certainty could increase the risk of future Federal False Claims Act qui tam lawsuits in which private plaintiffs assert that our compensation practices violate the incentive compensation rules and, therefore, that our receipt of Title IV funds constitutes a false claim. We have been the subject of three such qui tam lawsuits relating to our compensation practices, all of which have been dismissed at the district court level, but one of which is on appeal to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Gainful Employment Under the HEA, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV programs in respect of educational programs that lead to “gainful employment in a recognized occupation.” Historically, this concept has been interpreted and applied to focus on the objectives of the programs. In the July NPRM, ED proposed to adopt a definition of “gainful employment” for purposes of the requirement for Title IV student financial aid that a program of study prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation, with that definition linked to a two part test: measuring the relationship between the debt students incur and their incomes after program completion; and measuring the rate at which all enrollees, regardless of completion, repay their loans on time. If this regulation is adopted in a form similar to that proposed by ED, it could render some of our programs, as well as programs offered by other private sector educational institutions, ineligible for Title IV funding to the extent they do not meet these standards. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding would be at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income level of persons employed in specific occupations or sectors, increases in interest rates, changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs, changes in student loan delinquency rates and other factors. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding, in most cases it would not be practical to continue offering that course under our current business model. Regulations in the form proposed in the July NPRM could result in a significant realignment of the types of educational programs that are offered by us and by other private sector educational institutions in general, in order to comply with the rules or to avoid the uncertainty associated with compliance over time. This realignment could reduce our enrollment, perhaps materially. In addition, for those programs that remain eligible only under an alternative basis of student loan repayment rates or other alternative standards, we may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment, course completion or job placement in order to ensure continued Title IV eligibility. This could materially increase our cost of doing business and/or cause us to further limit enrollment. Potential Impact of Rulemaking We cannot predict the form of any final rules that may be adopted by the ED. As presented by the ED in the NPRMs, the rules regarding incentive compensation and gainful employment could have a material impact on the manner in which we conduct our business. Compliance with these rules, which if adopted could be effective as early as July 1, 2011, could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 31 Table of Contents Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Prior to the enactment of the HEOA, a proprietary institution would lose its eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs for a period of one year if it derived more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from these programs in any fiscal year. Any institution that violated this rule immediately became ineligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs and would be ineligible to reapply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. Under the HEOA, an institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years would become immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would not be permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of full two fiscal years. Effective July 1, 2008, the annual unsubsidized Stafford loans available for undergraduate students under the FFEL program increased by $2,000 which, coupled with recent increases in grants from the Pell program and other Title IV loan limits, will result in some of our schools experiencing an increase in the revenues they receive from Title IV programs. The HEOA contains relief from recent increases in the availability and amount of federal aid by, among other things, for all unsubsidized Stafford loans disbursed before July 1, 2011, permitting the $2,000 of additional Stafford loan availability to be counted as revenue not derived from Title IV programs. Additionally, for the Company’s fiscal years ending on or before June 30, 2012, the HEOA permits loans made by the Company to its students to count as non-Title IV revenue when earned, not when the loans are repaid as was the case for fiscal years 2009 and prior. Based on our calculations as required by the modified calculations under the HEOA, none of our institutions received more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, in fiscal 2010, with our highest institution receiving 89.1% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs. Pursuant to the modified calculation under the HEOA, on a consolidated basis we received 81.9% of our U.S. revenues, on a cash basis, from federal student financial aid programs in fiscal 2010. If Congress fails to extend the exclusion of the additional $2,000 of Stafford loans for periods beginning on or after July 1, 2011, or if Congress fails to extend the ability to count loans made by institutions to their students to be counted as non-Title IV revenue when earned (as opposed to when repaid) for periods beginning on or after July 1, 2012, it would adversely affect our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule. A decrease in the availability of state grants could also adversely impact our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule because state grants generally are considered cash payments for purposes of the 90/10 Rule. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, loses eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. As Congress increases available Title IV aid, we are often effectively required to increase tuition prices in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule; conversely, ED’s proposed “gainful employment” regulations could require us to reduce tuition prices in order to limit the debt burden of our students. If ED’s gainful employment regulation is adopted as proposed, our institutions may not be able to comply with both rules. In order to comply with the 90/10 Rule, the Company’s institutions cannot receive more than 90% of their revenues (on a cash basis) from Title IV sources. When Congress has increased available aid to students through the Title IV Program, some of our institutions – especially those that serve the most disadvantaged students who are entitled to receive the most Title IV student financial aid – have effectively been required to raise their tuition and fees in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule by maintaining a 10% “gap” between tuition charges and the average student’s available Title IV funds. Under ED’s proposed “gainful employment” regulation, on the other hand, those programs where the average graduate’s debt repayment burden exceeds a particular percentage of the average graduate’s compensation would cease to be eligible for Title IV Program funds, or would face other restrictions imposed by ED. This requirement would generally put downward pressure on tuition prices so that students do not incur debt that would exceed ED’s prescribed levels. If ED’s proposed “gainful employment” regulation is adopted as proposed, some of our programs may not be able to comply with the gainful employment rule while we attempt to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule. If the gainful employment rule is adopted as proposed, our efforts to comply with both rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if their current and former students’ loan default rates on federally guaranteed student loans are too high. Under the HEA, an institution could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its former students on their federal student loans equal or exceed 25% per year for three consecutive years, or 40% in a single year. The term “institution” means a main campus and its additional locations, as defined by ED’s regulations. ED generally publishes draft cohort default rates in February of each year for the repayment period that ended the prior September 30. We review all annually published cohort default rates and appeal the rates we believe are inaccurate. Draft rates do not result in sanctions and can change between February and the release of the official cohort default rates in September. We monitor on an ongoing basis the preliminary data about cohorts which are in the process of repayment, and are currently monitoring the repayment and default status of students who entered repayment during the federal fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 (the “2009 Cohort”), and the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2010 (the “2010 Cohort”). The draft cohort default rates for the 2009 Cohort will not be available until February 2011. However, based on currently available information, we believe the number of our institutions which could exceed ED’s 25% default rate threshold for the 2009 Cohort will be substantially higher than for the 2008 Cohort, in which nine of our institutions exceeded the 25% default rate threshold. Prior to the credit crisis in 2008, three types of entities played a role in managing student loan defaults in the FFEL Program: lenders participating in the FFEL Program, such as Sallie Mae; guaranty agencies; and post-secondary institutions such as ours. Since the credit crisis in 2008, many student loan portfolios have been “put,” or sold, to the federal government by lenders that either went out of business or could no longer fund their FFEL program loans. Lenders still in existence became servicing agents for the loans held by the government. Accordingly, guaranty agencies no longer play a role in default management and lenders’ roles have been significantly reduced. In addition, since May 2008, ED has distributed “put loans” to multiple servicers, and many of our students have loans with more than one servicing organization. This has made our default prevention efforts more complicated and difficult. Taken together, the structural changes in student lending have significantly reduced the level of default management activity previously provided by lenders and guaranty agencies. These changes have also negatively affected the timeliness and accuracy of federal databases and thus hindered the Company’s efforts at data collection and analysis. Because of the foregoing factors, and the fact that we expect some of our institutions to exceed the 25% threshold for both the 2008 Cohort and the 2009 Cohort, we can no longer predict that none of our institutions will exceed the 25% threshold for three consecutive years. Although the two-year measurement periods for the 2009 Cohort and the 2010 Cohort do not end until September 30, 2010 and September 30, 2011, respectively, we now believe that up to three of our institutions that exceeded ED’s 25% default rate threshold for the 2008 Cohort could exceed the 25% threshold for three consecutive years. Under ED’s current two-year default measurement methodology, institutions which exceed the 25% threshold for three consecutive years, or 40% in one year, become ineligible to participate in Title IV programs. The three institutions most at risk of exceeding the 25% threshold for three years in a row had 6,258 students at June 30, 2010, and represented 6.4% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010. 32 Table of Contents The 2008 HEOA made significant changes to the requirements governing the Title IV Programs, including the provisions on cohort default rates. Under the HEOA, a separate calculation will be performed starting for the 2009 Cohort that will add an additional federal fiscal year of borrowers’ repayment performance to the applicable cohort year. Starting after rates for the 2011 Cohort are finalized in 2014, sanctions will be imposed if an institution has a cohort default rate, under the new calculation, of 30% or more per year for three consecutive federal fiscal years, or more than 40% for a single year. As this is a new requirement, we are extending our cohort default management efforts to cover the additional year of measurement under the HEOA. However, we expect the higher two-year rates for the 2009 Cohort to translate into substantially elevated three-year rates for the same cohort, draft results for which we expect to receive in February 2012. Thus, we expect a majority of our institutions to exceed the 30% threshold under the new 3-year measurement for the 2009 Cohort. Sanctions do not become applicable for the 3-year measurement until 2014, at which time final rates will have been published under the three-year measurement for the 2009, 2010 and 2011 Cohorts. We expect to continue our default prevention efforts in order to attempt to improve default rates for the 2010 and 2011 Cohorts during their applicable repayment periods, but it is too early to make predictions about the success of those efforts. Accordingly, we can provide no assurances that our efforts will be successful, and we are unable to predict whether any, or how many, of our institutions will ultimately have cohort default rates in excess of 30% for three years in a row under the three-year measurement methodology. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to discontinue enrolling ATB Students beginning on September 1, 2010. The elimination of this population of potential new student enrollments could adversely affect our business. Serving ATB students has historically been part of the Company’s mission. However, ATB students are a higher risk population who complete their programs at a lower rate and default on their student loans at a higher rate than high school graduates. Accordingly, given the shift to a 3-year default measurement period and the structural changes in student lending over the past two years, we intend to stop enrolling ATB students into our U.S. Everest and WyoTech institutions starting on September 1, 2010. At June 30, 2010, ATB students accounted for approximately 15.1% of our enrollments. The elimination of this population of potential students will negatively impact our expected new student enrollments, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair value to the carrying amount at the reporting unit level as defined by the accounting guidance. We determined the fair value of our reporting units using the income approach that includes discounted cash flow as well as other generally accepted valuation methodologies. To the extent the fair value of a reporting unit is less that the carrying amount of its assets, we record an impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations. In connection with receipt of federal financial aid by the Company’s students, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. Compliance with the regulations promulgated by these various bodies could have a material impact on the manner in which the Company conducts its business. To the extent known, the Company has incorporated the risks associated with regulatory compliance into the cash flow forecasts and discount rates used to estimate the fair value of each of its reporting units at June 30, 2010. However, should the Company need to take additional actions not currently foreseen to comply with current and future regulations, the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of our reporting units, including estimation of future cash flows, revenue growth, and discount rates, could be negatively impacted and could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. At June 30, 2010, the fair value of one of our reporting units with approximately $198.5 million of goodwill exceeded its carrying amount by less than 10%. As a result, a relatively minor negative revision to the estimated future revenue growth or discount rate could result in an impairment to the carrying value of the related goodwill. In the future, if we are required to significantly write down the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by the ED, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of the ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, the ED calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution’s financial responsibility or “composite score.” If an institution’s score is above 1.5, it may continue its participation in federal student financial aid programs. For fiscal 2010, our calculations show that all of our schools exceed this requirement on an individual basis and are eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, with composite scores ranging from 1.5 to 3.0. On a consolidated basis, we also exceed this requirement with a composite score of 1.7. We cannot assure you that we and our institutions will continue to satisfy the numeric standards in the future. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if they do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that was disbursed to students who withdrew from their educational programs before completing them, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution was found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. 33 Table of Contents If regulators do not approve our acquisitions, the acquired school(s) would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. When we acquire an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, we must seek approval from the ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, because an acquisition is considered a change of ownership or control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. A change of ownership or control of an institution under the ED standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution’s participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the ED and the ED issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from the state agencies, accrediting agencies or ED for any institution we may acquire in the future, depending on the size of that acquisition, such a failure to obtain approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Additionally, if regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control of the Company, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. If we experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies or the ED, we or the affected institutions must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Some of these transactions or events, such as a significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock by third parties on the open market or through a tender offer, may be beyond our control. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control could also discourage bids for our outstanding shares of common stock at a premium and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 34 Table of Contents If we fail to demonstrate “administrative capability” to the ED, our business could suffer. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite “administrative capability” to participate in federal student financial aid programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: • comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; • have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; • have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; • provide financial aid counseling to its students; and • submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, the ED may: • require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds; • transfer the institution from the “advance” system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the “reimbursement” system of payment or cash monitoring; • place the institution on provisional certification status; or • commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in federal student financial aid programs. Should one or more of our institutions be limited in their access to, or lose, federal student financial aid funds due to their failure to demonstrate administrative capability, our business could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, commence investigations, bring claims or institute litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject from time to time to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the “reimbursement” or “heightened cash monitoring” method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant money and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. 35 Table of Contents Investigations, claims and actions against companies in our industry could adversely affect our business and stock price. During the past decade, we and other companies in the for-profit postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the Justice Department, state attorneys general, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the ED, state agencies, accrediting agencies and other entities. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the for-profit postsecondary education industry in general, our business and the market price of our common stock. We are subject to sanctions if we pay impermissible commissions, bonuses or other incentive payments to individuals involved in certain recruiting, admissions or financial aid activities. An institution participating in Title IV Programs may not provide any commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity or in making decisions regarding the awarding of Title IV Program funds. The law and regulations governing this requirement do not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances. If the ED determined that one of our institution’s compensation practices violated these standards, the ED could subject the institution to monetary fines, penalties, or other sanctions. Additionally, the Company has been, and may in the future be, the subject of qui tam actions in federal court by former employees on behalf of themselves and the federal government alleging violations of False Claims act because of alleged violations of the incentive compensation prohibitions in the HEA. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Any substantial fine or penalty or other sanction levied against one or more of our schools could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to comply with extensive Canadian regulations could affect the ability of our Canadian schools to participate in Canadian financial aid programs. Our post-secondary schools in Canada derive a significant percentage of their revenue on a cash basis from Canadian governmental financial aid programs, and our Canadian students receive loans under student financial aid programs. Our Canadian schools must meet eligibility standards to administer these programs and must comply with extensive statutes, rules, regulations and requirements. If our Canadian schools cannot meet these and other eligibility standards or fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the Canadian and Ontario provincial governments continuously review the legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student financial assistance programs due to political and budgetary pressures. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the funding for these programs, any change that significantly reduces funding or the ability of our schools to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational Risks That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business If our students are unable to obtain private loans from third party lenders, our business could be adversely affected. The education finance industry has experienced and may continue to experience problems that have resulted in fewer overall financing options for some of our students. Factors that could impact the general availability of loans to our students include: • changes in overall economic conditions or overall uncertainty or disruption in capital markets, in either case causing lenders to cease making student loans, limit the volume or types of loans made or impose more stringent eligibility or underwriting standards; • the financial condition and continued financial viability of student loan providers; • changes in applicable laws or regulations, such as provisions of the HEOA that impose disclosure and certification requirements with respect to private educational loans, that could have the effect of reducing the availability of education financing, including as a result of any lenders choosing to provide fewer loans or to stop providing loans altogether in light of increased regulation, or which could increase the costs of student loans; or • determinations by lenders to reduce the number of loans, or to cease making loans altogether, to students attending or planning to attend certain types of schools, particularly for-profit schools. 36 Table of Contents The consumer credit markets in the United States have suffered over the past several years from increases in default rates and foreclosures on mortgages, which in some cases have called into question the continued financial viability of certain student loan providers and has resulted in fewer providers of student loans. Providers of federally guaranteed student loans and alternative student loans have also experienced increases in default rates. Adverse market conditions for consumer and federally guaranteed student loans have resulted in providers of alternative loans reducing the attractiveness and/or decreasing the availability of alternative loans to post-secondary students, including students with low credit scores who would not otherwise be eligible for credit-based alternative loans. Prospective students may find that these increased financing costs make borrowing prohibitively expensive and abandon or delay enrollment in post-secondary education programs. While we are taking steps to address the private loan needs of our students, the inability of our students to finance their education could cause our student population to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Genesis discount student loan program could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our Genesis discount student loan program enables students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and are ineligible for private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools if they or a co-borrower meet certain criteria. Historically, we had developed several loan programs with origination and servicing providers such as Sallie Mae for students with low credit scores who otherwise would not qualify for loans. These loan programs required that we pay a discount fee to the origination and servicing providers of the loans as a reserve against future defaults on these loans. We have historically referred to these types of loans as “discount loans,” since we incurred a portion of the default risk related to these students’ loans by taking a discount on the disbursement. In early 2008 we were informed by Sallie Mae and two other origination and servicing providers that they would no longer make private loans available for students who present higher credit risks (i.e. subprime borrowers). In the face of this change in policy, we created a new student lending program with a different origination and servicing provider, Genesis, who specializes in subprime credit. This new Genesis loan program has characteristics similar to our previous “discount loan” programs. Under this Genesis loan program, we pay a discount to the origination and servicing provider. As with our previous discount loan program, we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, as the collectability of these amounts is not reasonably assured. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our Genesis discount loan program we have both the right and the obligation (subject to certain limitations in our agreement with Genesis), to acquire the related loans. Since we initiated the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we have acquired all of the loans that have been originated. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we purchase under this program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the new student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the new student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. For the Genesis discount loans that we acquire, we will bear the risks of collection. Therefore, even though we will record the discount as a reduction to revenue, to the extent collections are less than the net amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and our bad debt expense may increase. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers’ performance and the priority that borrowers, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. All of these factors could result in the Genesis discount loan program having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents We rely on a single company to provide financial aid processing for our students. If that company fails or refuses to timely provide such service, or materially increases its fees, our business could be harmed. We utilize a single company to provide the financial aid packaging and processing for our students’ financial aid. We have experienced periodic delays or backlogs of financial aid processing when this company’s resources have become overburdened. If this company were to cease doing business with us, we could experience an interruption in financial aid processing for our students. Although we believe we could find alternative service providers or we could begin to process financial aid in-house, we may be unable to establish relationships with alternative service providers that will be as favorable as the one we have now. For example, new service providers may have higher prices, lower capacity, lower quality standards or longer delivery times. Additionally, we are beginning to bring in-house some of these financial aid functions that have historically been performed for us by third parties. That transition also involves risks. If we are unable to provide financial aid processing for our students in a timely and accurate manner, or if such services are delayed or becomes more expensive, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business will be harmed. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing and advertising efforts may not be effective in attracting prospective students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our revenue and margins may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. If we cannot effectively identify, acquire and integrate additional schools, it could harm our business. We expect to continue to rely on acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We often engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible acquisition candidates. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire any of the acquisition candidates on favorable terms. Furthermore, we cannot make assurances that any acquired schools can be successfully integrated into our operations or be operated profitably. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that include: • diversion of management resources; • integration of the acquired schools’ operations; • adverse short-term effects on reported operating results; and • possible loss of key employees. Continued growth through acquisitions may also subject us to unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities. When we acquire an existing school, we typically allocate a significant portion of the purchase price to fixed assets, curriculum, goodwill and intangibles, such as covenants not-to-compete, trade names and accreditations. The Company does not amortize goodwill, accreditation, or trade names as these assets meet the indefinite life criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Curricula are amortized over their useful lives ranging generally from three to fifteen years and Student Relationships is being amortized over their useful life of one year. Goodwill is tested annually or more frequently for impairment. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair values to their carrying amounts. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have indefinite lives are amortized over their useful lives. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school’s participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains the ED’s approval. If we fail to successfully manage our acquisitions, our business would likely suffer. 38 Table of Contents Failure to effectively manage opening new schools and adding new services could harm our business. Establishing new schools requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. To open a new school, we are also required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, the new school is required to be certified as eligible to receive Title IV funds by the ED. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully open new schools in the future. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We depend on key personnel, including Jack D. Massimino, Peter C. Waller, Matt A. Ouimet, Kenneth S. Ord, Beth A. Wilson, William B. Buchanan, Mark L. Pelesh, Stan A. Mortensen, Robert C. Owen and David A. Poldoian, to effectively operate our business. If any of these people left our Company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new people, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and campus support center management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay, defer or inhibit a future acquisition of our Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. By using preferred stock, we could: • discourage a proxy contest; • make the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult; or • limit the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our schools are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving our current and former students, alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage or current reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We could also incur substantial legal costs, and management’s attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Please see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” for more detailed information on these litigation risks. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our business. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Educational programs at our schools, particularly programs in information technology, must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive, and has become ever more so over the past several years. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer on-line learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to those of our schools. Although tuition at many private non-profit institutions is higher than tuition at our schools, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. 39 Table of Contents Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could reduce our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and access to our credit facility that expires in July 2010 will be adequate to fund our currently identified plans. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to carry out our growth strategies. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary depending on the timing and size of acquisitions, our availability to access credit markets, and the sellers’ willingness to provide financing themselves. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes or economic downturns occur in specific geographic areas where we have a high concentration of schools, our business could be harmed. We have large numbers of schools concentrated in certain geographic areas. For instance, we have a high concentration of schools in California, Florida, Texas, Georgia, Michigan, the Province of Ontario and other states and cities. We expect to continue to have high concentrations of schools in large metropolitan areas as we create new branch campuses and acquire new schools. These geographic concentrations may change or intensify over time. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes, economic developments or other adverse events occur or are more intensively felt in some of these concentrated geographic areas, our business and results of operations could be disproportionately affected compared to the rest of the United States and Canada. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 