ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have received a report from our independent accountants, relating to our December 31, 2007 audited financial statements containing an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and our accumulated deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the reasons described below, Company management does not believe that cash on hand and cash flow generated internally by the Company will be adequate to fund the operation of its businesses beyond a short period of time. These reasons raise significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company was able to continue operating as a going concern due principally to funding of $1.25 million received from the sale of secured convertible demand promissory notes to an entity controlled by Michael Egan, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Also, in December 2007, additional funding of $380 thousand was provided from the sale of all of the Company’s rights related to its www.search.travel domain name and website to an entity also controlled by Mr. Egan. At December 31, 2007, the Company had a net working capital deficit of approximately $9.4 million, inclusive of a cash and cash equivalents balance of approximately $631 thousand. Such working capital deficit included an aggregate of $4.65 million in secured convertible demand debt and related accrued interest of approximately $955 thousand due to entities controlled by Mr. Egan (See Note 8, “Debt” and Note 14, “Related Party Transactions” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). Additionally, such working capital deficit included approximately $1.9 million of net liabilities of discontinued operations, with a significant portion of such liabilities related to charges which have been disputed by the Company. Notwithstanding previous cost reduction actions taken by the Company and its decision to shutdown its unprofitable computer games and VoIP telephony services businesses in March 2007 (see Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), the Company continues to incur substantial consolidated net losses, although reduced in comparison with prior periods, and management believes that the Company will continue to be unprofitable in the foreseeable future. Based upon the Company’s current financial condition, as discussed above, and without the infusion of additional capital, management does not believe that the Company will be able to fund its operations beyond the end of the second quarter of 2008. As more fully discussed in Note 16, “Subsequent Events” in the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, on February 1, 2008, the Company announced that it had entered into a letter of intent to sell substantially all of the business and net assets of its Tralliance Corporation subsidiary and to issue approximately 269 million shares of its common stock to an entity controlled by Mr. Egan (the “Proposed Tralliance Transaction”). In the event that this Proposed Tralliance Transaction is consummated, all of the Company’s remaining secured and unsecured debt owed to entities controlled by Mr. Egan (which was approximately $5.6 million and $400 thousand at December 31, 2007, respectively) will be exchanged or cancelled. Additionally, the consummation of the Proposed Tralliance Transaction would also result in significant reductions in the Company’s cost structure, based upon the elimination of Tralliance’s operating expenses. Although substantially all of Tralliance’s revenue would also be eliminated, approximately 10% of Tralliance’s future net revenue through May 5, 2015 would essentially be retained through the contemplated net revenue earn-out provisions of the Proposed Tralliance Transaction. Additionally, the consummation of the Proposed Tralliance Transaction would increase Mr. Egan’s ownership in the Company to approximately 84% (assuming exercise of all outstanding stock options and warrants) and would significantly dilute all other existing shareholders. The foregoing description is preliminary in nature and there may be significant changes between such preliminary terms and the terms of any final definitive purchase agreement. 9 Management expects that the consummation of the Proposed Tralliance Transaction will significantly reduce the amount of net losses currently being sustained by the Company. However, management does not believe that the consummation of the Proposed Tralliance Transaction will, in itself, allow the Company to become profitable and generate operating cash flows sufficient to fund its operations and pay its existing current liabilities (including those liabilities related to its discontinued operations) in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, assuming that the Proposed Tralliance Transaction is consummated, management believes that additional capital infusions (although reduced in comparison with the amounts of capital required during the Company’s recent past) will continue to be needed in order for the Company to continue to operate as a going concern. In the event that the Proposed Tralliance Transaction is not consummated, management expects that significantly more capital will need to be invested in the Company in the near term than would be required in the event that the Proposed Tralliance Transaction is consummated. Also, inasmuch as substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries secure the convertible demand debt owed to entities controlled by Mr. Egan, in connection with any resulting proceeding to collect this debt, such entities could seize and sell the assets of the Company and it subsidiaries, any or all of which would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and future operations of the Company, including the potential bankruptcy or cessation of business of the Company. It is our preference to avoid filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. However, in order to continue operating as a going concern for any length of time beyond the second quarter of 2008, we believe that we must quickly raise capital. Although there is no commitment to do so, any such funds would most likely come from Michael Egan or affiliates of Mr. Egan or the Company as the Company currently has no access to credit facilities with traditional third parties and has historically relied upon borrowings from related parties to meet short-term liquidity needs. Any such capital raised would not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and would not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration requirements. Further, any securities issued (or issuable) in connection with any such capital raise will likely result in very substantial dilution of the number of outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock. The amount of capital required to be raised by the Company will be dependent upon a number of factors, including (i) whether or not the Proposed Tralliance Transaction is consummated; (ii) our ability to increase Tralliance net revenue levels; (iii) our ability to control and reduce operating expenses; and (iv) our ability to successfully settle disputed and other outstanding liabilities related to our discontinued operations. There can be no assurance that the Proposed Tralliance Transaction will be consummated nor that the Company will be successful in raising a sufficient amount of capital, executing any of its current or future business plans or in continuing to operate as a going concern on a long-term basis. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF NET LOSSES AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses each year and we expect that we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We had net losses of approximately $6.2 million, $17.0 million and $11.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The principal causes of our losses are likely to continue to be: · costs resulting from the operation of our business; · failure to generate sufficient revenue; and · selling, general and administrative expenses. Although we have restructured our businesses, including the discontinuance of the operations of our computer games and VoIP telephony services businesses, we still expect to continue to incur losses as we attempt to improve the performance and operating results of our Internet services business. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN SETTLING DISPUTED VENDOR CHARGES. Our balance sheet at December 31, 2007 includes certain estimated liabilities related to disputed vendor charges incurred primarily as the result of the failure and subsequent shutdown of our discontinued VoIP telephony services business. The legal and administrative costs of resolving these disputed charges may be expensive and divert management’s attention from day-to-day operations. Although we are seeking to resolve and settle these disputed charges for amounts substantially less than recorded amounts, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in this regard. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial position, utilize a significant portion of our cash resources and adversely affect our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. See Note 3, “Discontinued Operations” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for future details. 10 OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY LIMITED. As of December 31, 2007, we had net operating loss carryforwards which may be potentially available for U.S. tax purposes of approximately $167 million. These carryforwards expire through 2026. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of an "ownership change" of a corporation. Due to various significant changes in our ownership interests, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we have substantially limited the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize any net operating loss carryforwards in the future. These net operating carryforwards may be further adversely impacted if the Proposed Tralliance Transaction is consummated. WE DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED GROWTH IN THE USE AND COMMERCIAL VIABILITY OF THE INTERNET. Our Internet services business is substantially dependent upon the continued growth in the general use of the Internet. Internet and electronic commerce growth may be inhibited for a number of reasons, including: · inadequate network infrastructure; · security and authentication concerns; · general economic and business downturns; and · catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. As web usage grows, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth or its performance and reliability may decline. Websites have experienced interruptions in their service as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the Internet network infrastructure. If these outages or delays frequently occur in the future, web usage, as well as usage of our services, could grow more slowly or decline. Also, the Internet's commercial viability may be significantly hampered due to: · delays in the development or adoption of new operating and technical standards and performance improvements required to handle increased levels of activity; · increased government regulation; · potential governmental taxation of such services; and · insufficient availability of telecommunications services which could result in slower response times and adversely affect usage of the Internet. WE MAY FACE INCREASED GOVERNMENT REGULATION, TAXATION AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES IN OUR INDUSTRY, BOTH DOMESTICALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND/OR OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. There are an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. In addition, a number of federal, state, local and foreign legislative and regulatory proposals are under consideration. Laws and regulations have been and will likely continue to be adopted with respect to the Internet relating to, among other things, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Changes in tax laws relating to electronic commerce could materially affect our business, prospects and financial condition. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in electronic commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with other entities involved in the industries in which we participate, and otherwise harm our business. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and electronic commerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on electronic commerce or may alter how we do business. This could decrease the demand for our existing or proposed services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 11 WE RELY ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We regard certain elements of our websites and underlying technology as proprietary and attempt to protect them by relying on intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. In connection with our license agreements with third parties, we generally seek to control access to and distribution of our technology and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Thus, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary information, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We pursue the registration of our trademarks in the United States and, in some cases, internationally. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet related businesses are also uncertain and still evolving. We cannot assure you about the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies could establish and have established additional top-level domains, could appoint additional domain name registries or could modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our names or our “.travel” domain registry business. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed, or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. The relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE. Due to our significant change in operations, including the entry into new lines of business and disposition of other lines of business, our historical quarterly operating results are not necessarily reflective of future results. The factors that will cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the future include: · the outcome and costs related to defending and settling outstanding claims and disputes; · changes in the number of marketing or technical employees; · the level of traffic on our websites; · the overall demand for Internet travel services; · the addition or loss of “.travel” domain name registrants; · overall usage and acceptance of the Internet; · costs relating to the implementation or cessation of marketing plans for our business; · other costs relating to the maintenance of our operations; · the restructuring of our business; including potential sales of businesses or assets · failure to generate significant revenues and profit margins from new and/or existing products and services; and · competition from others providing services similar to ours. 12 OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES FINANCIAL FORECASTING DIFFICULT. OUR INEXPERIENCE IN THE INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS WILL MAKE FINANCIAL FORECASTING EVEN MORE DIFFICULT. We have a limited operating history for you to use in evaluating our prospects and us, particularly as it pertains to our Internet services business. Our prospects should be considered in light of the risks encountered by companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets like ours. We may not successfully address these risks. For example, we may not be able to: · generate and maintain adequate levels of “.travel” domain name registrations; · adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments; and · identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM IS INEXPERIENCED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF A LARGE OPERATING COMPANY. Only our Chairman has had experience managing a large operating company. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: · our key employees will be able to work together effectively as a team; · we will be able to retain the remaining members of our management team; · we will be able to hire, train and manage our employee base; · our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations; and · our management will be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully exploit the market opportunity for our products and services. WE DEPEND ON QUALIFIED MANAGERIAL, TECHNICAL AND MARKETING PERSONNEL. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified managerial, technical and marketing personnel necessary to operate our businesses. We may need to give bonuses and other incentives to certain employees to keep them, which can be costly to us. The loss of the services of members of our management team or other key personnel could harm our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and do not intend to purchase any in the future. Our deteriorating financial performance creates uncertainty that may result in departures of key employees and our inability to attract suitable replacements and/or additional managerial personnel in the future. Wages for managerial, technical, and marketing employees are increasing and are expected to continue to increase in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and could continue to experience in the future difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we were unable to attract and retain the technical and managerial personnel necessary to support and grow our businesses, our businesses would likely be materially and adversely affected. OUR OFFICERS, INCLUDING OUR CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT HAVE OTHER INTERESTS AND TIME COMMITMENTS; WE HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH OUR DIRECTORS; ALL OF OUR DIRECTORS ARE EMPLOYEES OR STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY OR AFFILIATES OF OUR LARGEST STOCKHOLDER. Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Egan, is an officer or director of other companies, we have to compete for his time. Mr. Egan became our Chief Executive Officer effective June 1, 2002. Mr. Egan is also the controlling investor of Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., E&C Capital Partners LLLP, and E&C Capital Partners II, LLC which are our largest stockholders. Mr. Egan has not committed to devote any specific percentage of his business time with us. Accordingly, we compete with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., E&C Capital Partners LLLP, E&C Capital Partners II, LLC and Mr. Egan's other related entities for his time. Our President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and Director, Mr. Edward A. Cespedes, is also an officer or director of other companies. Accordingly, we must compete for his time. Mr. Cespedes is an officer or director of various privately held entities and is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. 13 Our Vice President of Finance and Director, Ms. Robin Lebowitz is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. She is also an officer or director of other companies or entities controlled by Mr. Egan and Mr. Cespedes. Due to the relationships with his related entities, Mr. Egan will have an inherent conflict of interest in making any decision related to transactions between the related entities and us, including investment in our securities. Furthermore, the Company's Board of Directors presently is comprised entirely of individuals which are employees of theglobe, and therefore are not "independent." We intend to review related party transactions in the future on a case-by-case basis. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTY OUTSOURCED HOSTING FACILITIES OVER WHICH WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL. Certain of our principal servers are located at third party outsourced hosting facilities. Our operations depend on the ability to protect our systems against damage from unexpected events, including fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures and vandalism. Any disruption in our Internet access could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also materially adversely affect our businesses. Our reputation and/or the brands of our business could be materially and adversely affected by any problems experienced by our websites, databases or our supporting information technology networks. We may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We do not presently have any secondary off-site systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LIABILITY FOR INFORMATION RETRIEVED FROM OR TRANSMITTED OVER THE INTERNET. Users may access content on our websites or the websites of our distribution partners or other third parties through website links or other means, and they may download content and subsequently transmit this content to others over the Internet. This could result in claims against us based on a variety of theories, including defamation, obscenity, negligence, copyright infringement, trademark infringement or the wrongful actions of third parties. Other theories may be brought based on the nature, publication and distribution of our content or based on errors or false or misleading information provided on our websites. Claims have been brought against online services in the past and we have received inquiries from third parties regarding these matters. Such claims could be material in the future. OUR INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING WAS NOT EFFECTIVE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2007. Based upon an evaluation and assessment completed by Company management, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007. Our conclusion was based upon the existence of certain “material weaknesses” related to the reporting of “.travel” name registration data as of December 31, 2007 (see Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES of this report for further details). Because we are a smaller company, we are not yet required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent public accountants. At the present time, this audit will be first required in connection with our annual report as of December 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately remediate the material weaknesses that we have identified as of December 31, 2007. Additionally, we cannot assure you that other material weaknesses will not be identified by either management or independent public accountants in the future. Our failure to remediate our existing material weaknesses, or to adequately protect against the occurance of additional material weaknesses, could result in material misstatements of our financial statement, subject the Company to regulatory scrutiny and/or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Such failure could also adversely affect the Company’s operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS OUR CONTRACT TO SERVE AS THE REGISTRY FOR THE “.TRAVEL” TOP-LEVEL DOMAIN MAY BE TERMINATED EARLY, WHICH WOULD LIKELY DO IRREPARABLE HARM TO OUR DEVELOPING INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. Our contract with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”) to serve as the registry for the “.travel” top-level Internet domain is for an initial term of ten years. Additionally, we have agreed to engage in good faith negotiations at regular intervals throughout the term of our contract (at least once every three years) regarding possible changes to the provisions of the contract, including changes in the fees and payments that we are required to make to ICANN. In the event that we materially and fundamentally breach the contract and fail to cure such breach within thirty days of notice, ICANN has the right to immediately terminate our contract. Additionally, in the event that Tralliance becomes subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, and such proceeding is not dismissed within sixty (60) days, our contract will be automatically early terminated. Should our “.travel” registry contract be terminated early, we would likely permanently shutdown our Internet services business. Further, we could be held liable to pay additional fees or financial damages to ICANN or certain of our related subcontractors and, in certain limited circumstances, to pay punitive, exemplary or other damages to ICANN. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED IF IN THE FUTURE THE ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE INTERNET NO LONGER RELIES UPON THE EXISTING DOMAIN NAME SYSTEM. The domain name registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without the use of the existing domain name system. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain name to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE OUTSOURCE CERTAIN OPERATIONS WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR THIRD PARTY VENDORS. We do not develop and maintain all of the products and services that we offer. We offer most of our services to our customers through various third party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf and also outsource most of our operations to third parties. Accordingly, we are dependent, in part, on the services of third party service providers, which may raise concerns by our customers regarding our ability to control the services we offer them if certain elements are managed by another company. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, discontinue their lines of business, cease or reduce operations or terminate their contracts with us, our business, operations and customer relations may be impacted negatively and we may be required to pursue replacement third party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. If a problem should arise with a provider, transitioning services and data from one provider to another can often be a complicated and time consuming process and we cannot assure that if we need to switch from a provider we would be able to do so without significant disruptions, or at all. If we were unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to either temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services which may disrupt services to our customers. Any failure to provide services would have a negative impact on our revenue, profitability and financial condition and could materially harm our Internet services business. REGULATORY AND STATUTORY CHANGES COULD HARM OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. We cannot predict with any certainty the effect that new governmental or regulatory policies, including changes in consumer privacy policies or industry reaction to those policies, will have on our domain name registry business. Additionally, ICANN’s limited resources may seriously affect its ability to carry out its mandate or could force ICANN to impose additional fees on registries. Changes in governmental or regulatory statutes or policies could cause decreases in future revenue and increases in future costs which could have a material adverse effect on the development of our domain name registry business. OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE TRAVEL INDUSTRY. OUR BUSINESS MAY BE AFFECTED BY EVENTS WHICH AFFECT THE TRAVEL INDUSTRY IN GENERAL. Revenue and cash flows of our Internet services business principally result from the registrations of domain names in the “.travel” top level domain. The ability to register such domain names is only available to businesses which are involved in the travel industry. Events such as terrorist attacks, military actions and natural disasters have had a significant adverse affect on the travel industry in the past. In addition, recessions or other economic pressures, such as the level of employment in the U.S or abroad have also had negative impacts on the travel industry. The overall demand for advertising, as well as the level of consumer travel may also be linked to such events or economic conditions. If such events result in a negative impact on the travel industry, such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING BRAND AWARENESS; BRAND IDENTITY IS CRITICAL TO OUR “.TRAVEL” BUSINESS. Our success in operating and promoting the “.travel” registry will depend on our ability to create and maintain brand awareness for our product offerings. This has in some cases required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of capital to allow us to market our products and establish brand recognition and customer loyalty. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial resources. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand or our brand values are diluted, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. To promote our brand, we may be required to continue to increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness. We may not generate a corresponding increase in revenue to justify these costs. 15 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE VOLUME OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE IN THE OPEN MARKET COULD DRIVE DOWN THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK OR KEEP OUR STOCK PRICE FROM IMPROVING, EVEN IF OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVES. As of March 5, 2007, we had issued and outstanding approximately 172.5 million shares, of which approximately 88.7 million shares were freely tradable over the public markets. There is limited trading volume in our shares and we are now traded only in the over-the-counter market. Most of our outstanding restricted shares of Common Stock were issued more than one year ago and are therefore eligible to be resold over the public markets pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of significant amounts of Common Stock in the public market in the future, the perception that sales will occur or the registration of additional shares pursuant to existing contractual obligations could materially and adversely drive down the price of our stock. In addition, such factors could adversely affect the ability of the market price of the Common Stock to increase even if our business prospects were to improve. Substantially all of our stockholders holding restricted securities, including shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants or the conversion of convertible notes to acquire our Common Stock (which are convertible into 193 million shares), have registration rights under various conditions and are or will become available for resale in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, there were outstanding options to purchase approximately 16.3 million shares of our Common Stock, which become eligible for sale in the public market from time to time depending on vesting and the expiration of lock-up agreements. The shares issuable upon exercise of these options are registered under the Securities Act and consequently, subject to certain volume restrictions as to shares issuable to executive officers, will be freely tradable. Also as of March 5, 2008, we had issued and outstanding warrants to acquire approximately 16.9 million shares of our Common Stock. Many of the outstanding instruments representing the warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pursuant to which the exercise prices and number of shares issuable upon exercise may be adjusted. OUR CHAIRMAN MAY CONTROL US. Michael S. Egan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, approximately 274.7 million shares of our Common Stock as of March 5, 2008, which in the aggregate represents approximately 72.1% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock (treating as outstanding for this purpose the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise and/or conversion of the options, convertible promissory notes and warrants owned by Mr. Egan or his affiliates). If the proposed sale of substantially all of the business and net assets of Tralliance and the issuance of approximately 269 million shares of the Company’s common stock to an entity controlled by Mr. Egan, is consummated, Mr. Egan’s beneficial ownership percentage would then be increased to approximately 84% of fully diluted shares outstanding (see Note 16, “Subsequent Events” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). Accordingly, Mr. Egan will be able to exercise significant influence over, if not control, any stockholder vote. DELISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAKES IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO SELL SHARES. THIS MAY POTENTIALLY LEAD TO FUTURE MARKET DECLINES. The shares of our Common Stock were delisted from the NASDAQ national market in April 2001 and are now traded in the over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board or "OTCBB." As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. The delisting has made trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in share price and making it less likely our stock price will increase. It has also made it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We may also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if we sell equity due to our delisting. OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO CERTAIN "PENNY STOCK" RULES WHICH MAY MAKE IT A LESS ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT. Since the trading price of our Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share and our net tangible assets are less than $2.0 million, trading in our Common Stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our Common Stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. 16 ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AFFECTING US COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and stockholder rights plan and provisions of applicable Delaware law may: · have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company; · discourage bids of our Common Stock at a premium over the market price; or · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our Common Stock. Certain Delaware laws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our Company. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met. In addition, provisions of our charter and by-laws, and the significant amount of Common Stock held by our current executive officers, directors and affiliates, could together have the effect of discouraging potential takeover attempts or making it more difficult for stockholders to change management. In addition, the employment contracts of our Chairman and CEO, President and Vice President of Finance provide for substantial lump sum payments ranging from 2 (for the Vice President) to 10 times (for each of the Chairman and President) of their respective average combined salaries and bonuses (together with the continuation of various benefits for extended periods) in the event of their termination without cause or a termination by the executive for “good reason,” which is conclusively presumed in the event of a “change-in-control” (as such terms are defined in such agreements). OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND MAY DECLINE. The trading price of our Common Stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in response to various factors, including: · the performance and public acceptance of our product lines; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · competitive announcements; · sales of any of our businesses and/or components of their assets; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and · news relating to trends in our markets. The market price of our Common Stock could also decline as a result of unforeseen factors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly Internet related companies, have been highly volatile. Our stock is also more volatile due to the limited trading volume and the high number of shares eligible for trading in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 