ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include: • general economic and business conditions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • the overall demand for enterprise software and services; • governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and • general political developments. The continued global economic crisis caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. These macroeconomic developments negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their technology budgets or be unable to fund software or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. Our hybrid revenue model may impact our operating results We have a hybrid delivery model meaning that we offer our solutions on a hosted or license basis to our customers. For license transactions, the license revenue amount is generally recognized in the quarter delivery and acceptance of our software takes place. Whereas, for hosting transactions, hosting revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the hosting contract, which is typically one to two years. As a result, our total revenue may increase or decrease in future quarters as a result of the timing and mix of license and hosting transactions This could be exacerbated if we have more customers that choose the hosted solution over our licensed solution; causing us to increase the amount of revenue recognized ratably over the life of the contract therefore resulting in our total revenue to decrease in the short-term. Our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays may impair our operating results The long sales cycle for our products may cause license revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. The sales cycle for our products can be six months or more and varies substantially from customer to customer. Because we sell complex and deeply integrated solutions, it can take many months of customer education to secure sales. While our potential customers are evaluating our products before, if ever, executing definitive agreements, we may incur substantial expenses and spend significant management effort in connection with the potential customer. Our multi-product offering and the increasingly complex needs of our customers contribute to a longer and unpredictable sales cycle. Consequently, we often face difficulty predicting the quarter in which expected sales will actually occur. This contributes to the uncertainty and fluctuations in our future operating results. In particular, the corporate decision-making and approval process of our customers and potential customers has become more complicated. This has caused our average sales cycle to further increase and, in some cases, has prevented the closure of sales that we believed were likely to close. In addition, historically our license sales have comprised a relatively small number of high value transactions; consequently, we may miss our revenue forecasts and may incur expenses that are not offset by corresponding revenue from the delay in even one transaction. 10 Table of Contents We must compete successfully in our market segment The market for customer interaction software is intensely competitive. Other than product innovation and existing customer relationships, there are no substantial barriers to entry in this market, and established or new entities may enter this market in the future. While software internally developed by enterprises represents indirect competition, we also compete directly with packaged application software vendors, including Avaya, Inc., Genesys Telecommunications, Kana Software, Inc, Live Person, Inc., and Moxie Software, Inc. In addition, we face actual or potential competition from larger software companies such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Salesforce.com, Inc. and similar companies that may attempt to sell customer interaction software to their installed base. We believe competition will continue to be fierce as current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, broader brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. With more established and better-financed competitors, these companies may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and make more attractive offers to businesses to induce them to use their products or services. We have experienced growth in recent periods and expect to continue to grow. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or adequately address competitive challenges To achieve our business objectives, we will need to continue to expand our business at an appropriate pace. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We anticipate that expansion will require substantial management effort and additional investment in our infrastructure and headcount. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Part of the challenge that we expect to face in the course of our expansion is increased staffing which is being used primarily towards developing new sales strategies and expanding into different markets. We have considerable need to recruit, train, and retain qualified staff and any delays or difficulties we encounter in these staffing efforts could impair our ability to grow. We intend to continue to expand our distribution channels into international markets and to spend significant financial and managerial resources to do so. If our revenue from international operations does not exceed the expense associated with establishing and maintaining these channels, our business and operating results will suffer. If we fail to expand and improve our sales performance and marketing activities, we may be unable to grow our business, negatively impacting our operating results and financial condition Expansion and growth of our business is dependent on our ability to expand our sales force and on the ability of our sales force to become more productive. If we are not able to effectively develop and maintain awareness of our products in a cost-effective manner, we may not achieve widespread acceptance of our existing and future products. This may result in a failure to expand and attract new customers and enhance relationships with existing customers. This may impede our efforts to improve operations in other areas of the Company and may result in further decline of the market price of our common stock. Due to the complexity of our customer interaction hub platform and related products and services, we must utilize highly trained sales personnel to educate prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and services as well as provide effective customer support. If we have turnover in our sales and marketing forces and because we have fewer resources than those of our competitors, we may not be able to successfully compete with those of our competitors. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to develop and expand strategic and third-party distribution channels would impede our revenue growth Our success and future growth depends in part upon the skills, experience, performance and continued service of our distribution partners, including software and hardware vendors and resellers. We engage with distribution partners in a number of ways, including assisting us to identify prospective customers, to distribute our products in geographies where we do not have a physical presence and to distribute our products where they are considered complementary to other third party products distributed by the partner. We believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and expand strategic, long term and profitable partnerships and reseller relationships. If we are unable to do so, or if any existing or future distribution partners fail to successfully market, resell, implement or support our products for their customers, or if distribution partners represent multiple providers and devote greater resources to market, resell, implement and support competing products and services, our future revenue growth could be impeded. Our failure to develop and expand relationships with systems integrators could harm our business. We sometimes rely on system integrators to recommend our products to their customers and to install and support our products for their customers. We likewise depend on broad market acceptance by these system integrators of our product and service offerings. Our agreements generally do not prohibit competitive offerings and system integrators may develop market or recommend software applications that compete with our products. Moreover, if these firms fail to implement our products successfully for their customers, we may not have the resources to implement our products on the schedule required by their customers. To the extent we devote resources to these relationships and the partnerships do not proceed as anticipated or provide revenue or other results as anticipated, our business may be harmed. Once partnerships are forged, there can be no guarantee that such relationships will be renewed in the future or available on acceptable terms. If we lose strategic third party relationships, fail to renew or develop new relationships, or fail to fully exploit revenue opportunities within such relationships, our results of operations and future growth may suffer. Our international operations involve various risks We derived 44% of our revenue from international sales for the fiscal year 2012 compared to 53% for the fiscal year 2011, and 47% for fiscal year 2010. Including those discussed above, our international sales operations are subject to a number of specific risks, such as: • general economic conditions in each country or region in which we do or plan to do business; • foreign currency fluctuations and imposition of exchange controls; • expenses associated with complying with differing technology standards and language translation issues; • difficulty and costs in staffing and managing our international operations; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • health or similar issues, such as a pandemic or epidemic; • various trade restrictions and tax consequences; • hostilities in various parts of the world; and • reduced intellectual property protections in some countries. About 47% of our workforce is employed in India. Of these employees, more than 41% are allocated to research and development. Although the movement of certain operations internationally was principally motivated by cost cutting, the continued management of these remote operations requires significant management attention and financial resources that could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, with the significant increase in the numbers of foreign businesses that have established operations in India, the 12 Table of Contents competition to attract and retain employees there has increased significantly. As a result of the increased competition for skilled workers, we experienced increased compensation costs and expect these costs to increase in the future. Our reliance on our workforce in India makes us particularly susceptible to disruptions in the business environment in that region. In particular, sophisticated telecommunications links, high speed data communications with other eGain offices and customers, and overall consistency and stability of our business infrastructure are vital to our day-to-day operations, and any impairment of such infrastructure will cause our financial condition and results to suffer. The maintenance of stable political relations between the United States, European Union and India are also of great importance to our operations. Any of these risks could have a significant impact on our product development, customer support, or professional services. To the extent the benefit of maintaining these operations abroad does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining such activities, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. Our revenue and operating expenses are unpredictable and may fluctuate, which may harm our operating results and financial condition Due to the emerging nature of the multichannel contact center market and other similar factors, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenue could fall short of expectations if we experience delays or cancellations of even a small number of orders. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below the expectations of financial analysts or investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock is also likely to decline. A number of factors are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results, including, but not limited to, the following: • demand for our software and budget and spending decisions by information technology departments of our customers; • the mix of hosted and license transactions; • seasonal trends in technology purchases; • our ability to attract and retain customers; and • litigation relating to our intellectual proprietary rights. In addition, we base our expense levels in part on expectations regarding future revenue levels. In the short term, expenses, such as employee compensation and rent, are relatively fixed. If revenue for a particular quarter is below expectations, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. Accordingly, such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on expected operating results for that quarter. For this reason, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may also not be a good indication of our future performance. We may need additional capital, and raising such additional capital may be difficult or impossible and will likely significantly dilute existing stockholders We believe that existing capital resources will enable us to maintain current and planned operations for the next 12 months. However, our working capital requirements in the foreseeable future are subject to numerous risks and will depend on a variety of factors, in particular, whether we maintain or exceed the level of revenue achieved in fiscal year 2012 and that customers continue to pay on a timely basis. We may need to secure additional financing due to unforeseen or unanticipated market conditions. We may try to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. Such financing may be difficult to obtain on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we succeed in raising additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, then the issuance could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of debt securities or preferred stock, these new securities would have rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The terms of these securities could impose restrictions on our operations. 13 Table of Contents Difficulties in implementing our products could harm our revenue and margins We generally recognize license revenue from a customer sale when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the arrangement does not involve significant customization of the software, the license fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the fee is probable. If an arrangement requires significant customization or implementation services from us, recognition of the associated license and service revenue could be delayed. The timing of the commencement and completion of these services is subject to factors that may be beyond our control, as this process requires access to the customer’s facilities and coordination with the customer’s personnel after delivery of the software. In addition, customers could cancel or delay product implementations. Implementation typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. If we experience difficulties with implementation or do not meet project milestones in a timely manner, we could be obligated to devote more customer support, engineering and other resources to a particular project. Some customers may also require us to develop customized features or capabilities. If new or existing customers cancel or have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our professional services, support, or customized features, revenue recognition could be cancelled or further delayed and our costs could increase, causing increased variability in our operating results. Our reserves may be insufficient to cover receivables we are unable to collect We assume a certain level of credit risk with our customers in order to do business. Conditions affecting any of our customers could cause them to become unable or unwilling to pay us in a timely manner, or at all, for products or services we have already provided them. In the past, we have experienced collection delays from certain customers, and we cannot predict whether we will continue to experience similar or more severe delays in the future. Although we have established reserves to cover losses due to delays or inability to pay, there can be no assurance that such reserves will be sufficient to cover our losses. If losses due to delays or inability to pay are greater than our reserves, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to legal liability and/or negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms. Our technology platforms enable representatives of our customers as well as individual service providers to communicate with consumers and other persons seeking information or advice on the Internet. The law relating to the liability of online platform providers such as us for the activities of users of their online platforms is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. We may be unable to prevent users of our technology platforms from providing negligent, unlawful or inappropriate advice, information or content via our technology platforms, or from behaving in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for negligent, fraudulent, unlawful or inappropriate activities carried out by users of our technology platforms. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law such as fraud, defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated by users of our technology platforms. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that could prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our defense of any of these actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, among other things, to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third party Web properties that include materials that infringe copyrights or rights of others. Additionally, portions of The Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third party content. A safe harbor for copyright infringement is also available under the DMCA to certain online service providers that provide specific services, if the providers take certain affirmative steps as set forth in the DMCA. Important questions regarding the safe harbor under the DMCA and the CDA have yet to be litigated, and we cannot guarantee that we will meet the safe harbor requirements of the DMCA or of the CDA. If we are not covered by a safe harbor, for any reason, we could be exposed to claims, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend. 14 Table of Contents From time to time, we may become defendants in legal proceedings about which we are unable to assess our exposure and which could become significant liabilities upon judgment. We may become defendants in legal proceedings from time to time. Companies in our industry have been subject to claims related to patent infringement as well as contract and employment-related claims. We may not be able to accurately assess the risk related to these lawsuits, and we may be unable to accurately assess our level of exposure. We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions and patent rights to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and if these rights are impaired our ability to generate revenue will be harmed If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology, and our business might be harmed. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expense. Any of our trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. While we have some U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, our existing patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our service is available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S., and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Unknown software defects could disrupt our products and services and problems arising from our vendors’ products or services could disrupt operations, which could harm our business and reputation Our product and service offerings depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Complex software often contains defects or errors in translation or integration, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released or localized for international markets. We may not discover software defects that affect our new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. It is possible that, despite testing by us, defects may occur in the software and we can give no assurance that our products and services will not experience such defects in the future. Furthermore, our customers generally use our products together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur in the integration or network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products do not cause these problems, these problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. These defects or problems could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, product liability claims, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, product returns and unexpected expenses, and diversion of resources to remedy errors. 15 Table of Contents Our stock price has demonstrated volatility and continued market conditions may cause declines or fluctuations The price at which our common stock trades has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile and show wide fluctuations due to factors such as the following: • concerns related to liquidity of our stock; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to meet announced or anticipated profitability goals and changes in or failure to meet securities analysts’ expectations; • announcements of technological innovations and/or the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights and litigation, regulatory scrutiny and new legislation; • conditions and trends in the Internet and other technology industries; and • general market and economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has recently and in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies, regardless of the specific operating performance of the affected company. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to increase or decline. Our insiders who are significant stockholders may control the election of our board and may have interests that conflict with those of other stockholders Our directors and executive officers, together with members of their immediate families, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 42% of our outstanding capital stock as of our record date, September 21, 2012. As a result, acting together, this group has the ability to exercise significant control over most matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election and removal of directors and significant corporate transactions. Ability to hire and retain key personnel Our success will also depend in large part on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, Ashutosh Roy, could harm our business. We have embarked upon an aggressive hiring plan to support our growth. Our hiring is focused in the areas of sales and development. We are taking steps to retain our key personnel. An increase in attrition in the Indian workforce on which we deeply rely for research and development would have significant negative effects on us and our results of operations. Unplanned system interruptions and capacity constraints and failure to effect efficient transmission of customer communications and data over the Internet could harm our business and reputation Our customers have in the past experienced some interruptions with eGain-hosted operations. We believe that these interruptions will continue to occur from time to time. These interruptions could be due to hardware and operating system failures. As a result, our business will suffer if we experience frequent or long system interruptions that result in the unavailability or reduced performance of our hosted operations or reduce our 16 Table of Contents ability to provide remote management services. We expect to experience occasional temporary capacity constraints due to sharply increased traffic or other Internet-wide disruptions, which may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, impaired quality, and degradation in levels of customer service. If this were to continue to happen, our business and reputation could be seriously harmed. The growth in the use of the Internet has caused interruptions and delays in accessing the Internet and transmitting data over the Internet. Interruptions also occur due to systems burdens brought on by unsolicited bulk email or “Spam,” malicious service attacks and hacking into operating systems, viruses, worms and a “Trojan” horse, the proliferation of which is beyond our control and may seriously impact our and our customers’ businesses. Because we provide Cloud-based software, interruptions or delays in Internet transmissions will harm our customers’ ability to receive and respond to online interactions. Therefore, our market depends on ongoing improvements being made to the entire Internet infrastructure to alleviate overloading and congestion. Our success largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and network systems. A significant amount of our computer and communications systems are located in Sunnyvale, California. Due to our location, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. We have entered into service agreements with some of our customers that require minimum performance standards, including standards regarding the availability and response time of our remote management services. If we fail to meet these standards, our customers could terminate their relationships with us, and we could be subject to contractual refunds and service credits to customers. Any unplanned interruption of services may harm our ability to attract and retain customers. The terms we agree to in our Service Level Agreements or other contracts may expose us to increased risk through indemnity or other provisions. Our Service Level Agreement (SLA) could impose additional risks in the form of added indemnification, service credits for system unavailability, and loss, damage or costs resulting from use of our system. Our typical SLA does provide the customer with unavailability credit. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data or our data or our IT systems, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers’ data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our IT systems. Additionally, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our customers’ data or our data or IT systems. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. In addition, our customers may authorize third party access to their customer data located in our hosting environment. Because we do not 17 Table of Contents control the transmissions between customer authorized third parties, or the processing of such data by customer authorized third parties, we cannot ensure the integrity or security of such transmissions or processing. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, negatively impact our future sales, disrupt our business and lead to legal liability. The regulatory environment for and certain legal uncertainties in the operation of our business and our customer’s business could impair our growth or decrease demand for our services or increase our cost of doing business The imposition of more stringent protections and/or new regulations and the application of existing laws to our business could burden our company and our business partners and customers. Further, the adoption of additional laws and regulations could limit the growth of our business and that of our business partners and customers. Any decreased generalized demand for our services, or the loss/decrease in business by a key partner or customer due to regulation or the expense of compliance with any regulation, could either increase the costs associated with our business or affect revenue, either of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. We face increased regulatory scrutiny and potential criminal liability for our executives associated with various accounting and corporate governance rules promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We review and continue to monitor all of our accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including those related to relationships with our independent accountants, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and loan practices, and intend to fully comply with such laws. Nevertheless, such increased scrutiny and penalties involve risks to both eGain and our executive officers and directors in monitoring and insuring compliance. A failure to properly navigate the legal disclosure environment and implement and enforce appropriate policies and procedures, if needed, could harm our business and prospects. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy. Our customers use our hosting service to store their customer data, which may contain contact and other personal or identifying information regarding their customers and contacts. Laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customer’s ability to use and share data and, potentially restrict our ability to store and process data. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our service and reduce overall demand for it, or lead to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for any noncompliance with such privacy laws. Furthermore, privacy concerns may cause our customers’ customers to resist providing the personal data necessary to allow our customers to use our service effectively and may reduce demand for our service. Even the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our service in certain industries. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. For example, in the United States regulations such as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which protects and restricts the use of consumer credit and financial information, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, which regulates the use and disclosure of personal health information, impose significant requirements and obligations on businesses that may affect the use and adoption of our service. The European Union has also adopted a data privacy directive that requires member states to impose restrictions on the collection and use of personal data that, in some respects, are more stringent, and impose more significant burdens on subject businesses, than current privacy standards in the United States. Many other jurisdictions have similar stringent privacy laws and regulations. Our customers may demand that we incur significant costs to be compliant with all the relevant laws and regulations, which regulate their particular industry. 18 Table of Contents In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If we are unable to successfully detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls, the trading price of our common stock may decline and adversely impact our ability to attract new and continued investors. As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. An adverse opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting would indicate an inability to detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls. If the Company fails to have effective internal control over financial reporting or is unable to complete any necessary modifications to its internal control reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and in the reliability of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may need to license third-party technologies and may be unable to do so To the extent we need to license third-party technologies, we may be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services. Third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our inability to obtain and successfully integrate any of these licenses could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. This in turn would harm our business and operating results. Changes to current accounting policies could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business Generally accepted accounting principles and the related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for some of our significant accounting policies are highly complex and require subjective judgments and assumptions. Some of our more significant accounting policies that could be affected by changes in the accounting rules and the related implementation guidelines and interpretations include: • recognition of revenue; • contingencies and litigation; and • accounting for income taxes. Changes in these or other rules, or scrutiny of our current accounting practices, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported operating results or the way in which we conduct our business. We depend on broad market acceptance of our applications and of our business model We depend on the widespread acceptance and use of our applications as an effective solution for businesses seeking to manage high volumes of customer interactions across multiple channels, including Web, phone, email, print and in-person. While we believe the potential to be very large, we cannot accurately estimate the size or growth rate of the potential market for such product and service offerings generally, and we do not know whether our products and services in particular will achieve broad market acceptance. The market for customer interaction software is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and concerns over the security and reliability of online transactions, the privacy of users and quality of service or other issues may inhibit the growth of the Internet and commercial online services. If the market for our applications fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, our business model is premised on business assumptions that are still evolving. Our business model assumes that both customers and companies will increasingly elect to communicate via multiple channels, as well as demand integration of the online channels into the traditional telephone-based call center. Our business model also assumes that many companies recognize the benefits of a hosted delivery model and will seek to have their customer interaction software applications hosted by us. If any of these assumptions is incorrect or if customers and companies do not adopt digital technology in a timely manner, our business will be seriously harmed and our stock price will decline. We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological change of the customer interaction software industry The customer interaction software industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements and preferences, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing services, proprietary technology and systems obsolete. We must continually develop or introduce and improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance our existing services and to develop new services, functionality and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers. If we do not properly identify the feature preferences of prospective customers, or if we fail to deliver product features that meet the standards of these customers, our ability to market our service and compete successfully and to increase revenue could be impaired. The development of proprietary technology and necessary service enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may also be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt services to customer requirements or emerging industry standards or regulatory or legal requirements. More generally, if we cannot adapt or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to changing industry standards, market conditions or customer requirements, our business and operating results will suffer. We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business We may review acquisition or investment prospects that might complement our current business or enhance our technological capabilities. Integrating any newly acquired businesses or their technologies or products may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably. If we are unable to integrate newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization of expenses related to goodwill and other intangibles, any of which could harm our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 