D. Risk Factors—Risks Relating to our Business” and “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” According to the new PCS regulations, we are required to adjust our operating processes and agreements to such new rules, including our interconnection agreements, as well as agreements with our customers. By April 2005, substantially all of our interconnection arrangements were covered by agreements that had been amended to reflect the PCS regulations. In August 2007, Anatel issued Resolution No. 477 establishing new obligations regarding PCS, in particular in connection with users’ rights towards their mobile services providers. In October 2012, Anatel enacted the Regulation on Universal Obligations related to the fixed line universal service obligations (Plano Geral de Metas de Universalização), or PGMU, regulating backhauling, public pay phones and telephone services for families with low incomes, among others. In November 2012, Anatel enacted the General Plan for Competition Goals (Plano Geral de Metas de Competição), whose goal is to encourage competition by creating interconnection obligations and the sharing of infrastructure already installed by other operators. 57 Table of Contents In March 2014 by means of Resolution No. 632/2014, Anatel approved the adoption of a single regulation for the telecommunications sector (Regulamento Geral de Direitos do Consumidor de Serviços de Telecomunicações – RGC), with general rules for customer service, billing, and service offers, which are applicable to fixed, mobile, broadband and cable TV customers. Significant Market Power In November 2012, Anatel published a new competition framework known as the PGMC. Also in November 2012, Anatel published a series of regulations identifying groups with significant market power in the following relevant markets as defined by the PGMC: (i) copper pair or coaxial cable data transmission access landline network infrastructure offer at transmission rates up to 10 Mbps (Act No. 6.617, of November 8, 2012); (ii) wholesale local transport and long distance inland network infrastructure offer for data transmission rates of 34 Mbps or less (Act No. 6.619, of November 8, 2012); (iii) passive infrastructure for transport and access networks (Act No. 6.620, of November 8, 2012); (iv) mobile network inbound calls (Act No. 6.621, of November 8, 2012); and (v) national roaming (Act No. 6.622, of November 8, 2012). The TIM Group, comprised of TIM Celular and Intelig, is currently classified as a significant market power in the following markets: (i) passive infrastructure in transport and access networks (provision of towers); (ii) mobile network inbound calls (otherwise referred to as the mobile network termination market); and (iii) national roaming. Due to such classification we are now subject to increased regulation under the PGMC, which could have an adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, because we have been classified as having significant market power in the mobile network termination market, the rates charged by mobile service providers to other mobile service providers to terminate calls on their mobile networks, or VU-M, are regulated. On July 4, 2014, Anatel approved, by means of Resolution No. 639/2014, a rule for the definition of maximum reference rates for entities with significant market power, based on a cost model, for VU-M, TU-RL, and EILD. Pursuant to Anatel’s rule, reference rates will decline based on a glide path until the cost modeling known as LRIC+ Bottom Up is applied (2019, for VU-M and TU-RL; and 2020, for EILD). On July 7, 2014, Anatel published the corresponding Acts No. 6,210/2014, 6,211/2014 and 6,212/2014, which determined the specific reference rates to be adopted as of 2016. Because of our classification as having significant market power in the national roaming market, we must also offer roaming services to other mobile providers without significant market power at the rates approved by Anatel. We are also required to provide other providers without significant market power access to our towers and masts due to our classification as having significant market power in that portion of the passive infrastructure market. For additional detail, see – “Network Usage Charges”, “Roaming Fees”, “Interconnection Charges” and “Long Distance”. Interconnection Regulation Telecommunication operators must publish a public interconnection offer on both economic and technical conditions and are subject to the “General Interconnection Regulatory Framework” promulgated by Anatel in 2005. In 2005, Anatel issued a ruling for “Accounting Separation and Cost Accounting,” introducing the obligation of presenting the Accounting Separation and Allocation Document (Documento de Separação e Alocação de Contas), or DSAC, by the license holders and groups holding Significant Market Power in the offering of fixed and/or mobile network interconnection and wholesale leased lines (Exploração Industrial De Linha Dedicada), or EILD. Starting from 2006 (for fixed operators) and 2008 (for mobile operators related to the results of 2006 and 2007), operators (TIM included) are delivering the requested information to Anatel. In 2013, Anatel reviewed almost the entirety of DSAC. Pursuant to Resolutions No. 608 and 619, the level of information to be delivered to Anatel and the number of products analyzed were extended. Rules on costs allocation were also standardized in order to allow comparison of the results among operators. With respect to mobile interconnection, in October 2011, Anatel established a mechanism for reducing fixed-to-mobile call rates, applying a reduction of 18% in 2012 and 12% in 2013. In November 2012, through Resolution 600, Anatel decided that the VU-M reference rates in 2014 would be 75% of the valid VU-M in 2013, and in 2015 it would be 50% of the valid VU-M in 2013. Based on that, in December 2013, VU-M prices for 2014 and 2015 were published in accordance with Resolution No. 600. 58 Table of Contents Besides the VU-M reduction, Anatel established a Bill & Keep, or B&K, between significant market power and non-significant market power PCSs. From January 2013 until February 2015, the B&K will be 80%/20%. In December 2014, Anatel published Public Consultation No. 47, submitting to public comments potential amendments to the B&K percentages established by Resolution 600. If such public consultation is approved as submitted to public comments, the new B&K percentages will be: 75%/25%, from 2015 until 2016; 65%/35%, from 2016 until 2017; 55%/45%, from 2017 until 2018; and 50%/50%, from 2018 until 2019. After 2019 the VU-M will be charged by the significant market power whenever their network is used to originate or to finish a call. With respect to fixed interconnection, Anatel revised the criteria for pricing the use of fixed networks in May 2012. According to such regulation, after January 1, 2014, a full B&K regime (in which no payments are due for the traffic termination) was implemented for local STFC operators dealing with other local STFC operators. Currently, therefore, no payments are due for the use of a local STFC operator’s network by other local STFC operator. On July 4, 2014, Anatel approved, by means of Resolution No. 639/2014, a rule for the definition of maximum reference rates for entities with significant market power, based on a cost model, for VU-M, TU-RL, and EILD. Pursuant to Anatel’s rule, reference rates will decline based on a glide path until the cost modeling known as LRIC+ Bottom Up is applied (2019, for VU-M and TU-RL; and 2020, for EILD). On July 7, 2014, Anatel published the corresponding Acts No. 6,210/2014, 6,211/2014 and 6,212/2014, which determined the specific reference rates to be adopted as of 2016. Rate Regulation Under our PCS authorizations, we are allowed to set prices for our service plans, subject to approval by Anatel, provided that such amounts do not exceed a specified inflation adjusted cap. Anatel currently uses the IST (Índice de Serviços de Telecomunicações), a specific price inflation index developed by the Agency, in evaluating prices and determining the relevant cap for prices charged in the telecommunications industry. As mentioned above, on July 4, 2014, Anatel approved the calculation of VU-M, TU-RL and EILD reference rates based on a cost model. We expect that the adjustment of our prices will follow the market trend, and that the adjustment will be below the annual inflation rate based on the IST. If this new inflation adjustment mechanism, or any other mechanism chosen by the Brazilian government in the future, does not adequately reflect the true effect of inflation on our prices, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Number Portability In March 2007 Anatel issued a new regulation regarding number portability in Brazil for fixed telephony and PCS providers. Portability is limited to migration between providers of the same telecommunications services. For PCS providers, portability can take place when customer changes services provider within the same Registration Area as well as when customer changes the service plan of the same area. Anatel finished the nationwide NP implementation schedule in March 2009. Value-Added Services and Internet Regulation Value-added services are not considered under Brazilian telecommunications regulations to be telecommunications services, but rather an activity that adds features to a telecommunications service. Regulations require all telecommunications service providers to grant network access to any party interested in providing value-added services, on a non-discriminatory basis, unless technically impossible. Telecommunications service providers also are allowed to render value-added services through their own networks. Internet connection is considered by Brazilian legislation to be a value-added service, and its providers are not considered to be telecommunications companies. Current regulations allow us or any other interested party to offer Internet connection through our network. In April 2014, the Brazilian President passed Law No. 12,965 of 2014, known as the Legal Framework for the Use of the Internet (Marco Civil da Internet), or the Internet Framework, which establishes the principles, guarantees, rights and duties for the use of the Internet in Brazil. The bill sets forth a number of guidelines and rules to be observed by users and providers, such as the protection of privacy, the protection of personal data, the preservation and guarantee of net neutrality, the liability for damages caused by content generated or published by third parties and the storage and disclosure of usage logs. 59 Table of Contents According to the Internet Framework, a presidential decree may be enacted regulating the bill’s provisions, and enacting specific rules regarding network traffic management techniques,. Should such a presidential decree be enacted, both the Brazilian Internet Steering Committee (Comitê Gestor da Internet) and Anatel would be expected to express their opinion on the decree, which could happen after public hearings. Brazil’s Ministry of Justice has also launched a public debate on the main themes related to the bill. In addition to the presidential implementing decree, two other statues are expected to be discussed during 2015: the personal data protection act, which still needs to be enacted, and the copyright act, which needs updating. Although a subject of great debate, Anatel seems to have expressed itself as the competent authority to regulate network neutrality. This conclusion can be drawn from their analysis of the request for approval for the acquisition of Brasil Telecom by Oi, in which a neutral treatment of the network was imposed. Furthermore, Anatel included regulation of network neutrality in the SCM Regulation proposal, submitted for public consultation in 2011, forbidding the blockage and discriminatory treatment of traffic, except for the procedures shown as essential for the safety and stability of the service and its supporting networks. Although such specific rules related to net neutrality were not confirmed in the final version of the SCM regulation, approved by Anatel in 2013, a general principle remained in the regulation that SCM providers must observe net neutrality principle, in accordance with Anatel’s regulations and the applicable law. Frequencies and Spectrum Background We have a license to operate PCS services in the 450 MHz, 700 MHz, 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1.8 GHz, 1.9/2.1 GHz and 2.5 GHz frequency ranges, which allows us to provide mobile communications services with 2G, 3G and 4G technologies throughout Brazil. In connection with the PCS authorization auctions in 2001 and 2002, Anatel divided the Brazilian territory into three separate regions, each of which is equal to the regions applicable to the public regime fixed-line telephone service providers. PCS services could only be provided under Bands C, D and E at that time with initially 1800 MHz band and afterwards also the 900 MHz band. We acquired the D band in regions II and III and the E band in region I, completing our national coverage when considering TIM Sul, TIM Nordeste and Maxitel coverage. We requested a renewal of our authorizations for the D and E bands (1800 and 900 MHz frequencies) in September 2013, given that the initial term for which the authorization was expiring. The process was reviewed by Anatel, which handed down a decision based on formal legal opinion by the Federal Attorney General on the matter. According to such decision, TIM was entitled under the current rules to a renewal of our authorizations for the D and E bands, starting from March 2016. The formal Term of Authorization for Use of Radiofrequencies in connection with this decision has not yet been issued, however we expect to receive such formal documentation by the end of 2015. In December 2007, we acquired new authorizations for the 1800 MHz frequency in the São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro in order to improve our RF capacity in these regions. Within the same auction, Claro and Vivo acquired authorizations to provide PCS services in regions where we historically provide services but where Claro and Vivo previously did not, using 1800 MHz and 1900 MHz bands, which has resulted in increased competition in these regions. In the same auction, Oi received authorization to provide PCS services in the state of São Paulo using 1800 MHz (band M in the whole state and band E in the state’s countryside). In December 2010 Anatel auctioned an empty 3G band of radio spectrum consisting of (10+10) MHz in 2.1 GHz in the whole country (the “H Band” Auction), and other left over frequencies in the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands that had not been assigned in previous auctions. · Of the 12 available lots in the H Band, 10 were awarded to Nextel, a new entrant in the GSM market, which has traditionally offered trunking services in Brazil. Current operators were prevented from participating due to spectrum caps. Oi and CTBC managed to win the remaining two lots where they had cap availability. · The new entrant will be benefited with spectrum and infrastructure sharing, specifically in locations with less than 30,000 inhabitants, subjected to commercial agreements. · TIM won individual block of frequencies in five service areas, strengthening its presence in the North, Santa Catarina, Minas Gerais and Parana, biding a total of R$81.8 million, which will be paid proportionately to the remaining years in the existing authorization licenses (remaining years/15). 60 Table of Contents · VIVO won blocks in 900 MHz and due to available cap, managed to win lots of 1700/1800 MHz in all regions, completing a national coverage of (10+10) MHz in this band. · Claro won blocks of spectrum in the 1700/1800 MHz band. In December 2011, Anatel started auction No. 001/2011-PVCP/SPV, pursuant to which 16 blocks in the 1,800 MHz band were sold to Claro, Oi, CTBC and TIM. As a result of our participation in the auction, we will expand our 2G coverage and increase our presence in the northern and midwestern regions of Brazil, including the states of Paraná, Espirito Santo, Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Minas Gerais. Our corresponding RF authorization periods were formalized with Anatel in May 2013, after Anatel ruled on an appeal challenging the bidding process outcome. In 2012, Anatel established a bidding process in order to comply with Presidential Decree No. 7.512 of June 2011, which set April 2012 as the deadline to auction the 2.5GHz band, in order to introduce 4G technology in Brazil. Anatel modeled the auction with 2 national blocks of (20+20)MHz (W and Z) and 2 national blocks of (10+10)MHz (V1 and V2). In order to guarantee full rural service by 2018, Anatel linked the 4G blocks to the 450MHz band in specific geographic regions of Brazil. By April 30, 2013, FIFA Confederations Cup host cities (Belo Horizonte, Fortaleza, Rio de Janeiro, Recife, Salvador and Brasília), in preparation for hosting the FIFA 2014 World Cup and the 2016 Olympic Games, were to have been served by 4G. Following the results of the auction in October 2012, TIM acquired for R$340 million the 2,530-2,540 MHz and 2650-2660 MHz sub-bands, with national coverage, and the 450 MHz band in Espírito Santo, Paraná, Rio de Janeiro and Santa Catarina states (the 450 MHz band was jointly acquired with Intelig). Certain 4G coverage commitments were effective as early as April 2013, while the first coverage commitments for the 450 MHz band were effective in June 2014. As of December 2013, we are providing 4G coverage to approximately 10% of the urban population of Brazil, including eight capital cities. In December 2013, we launched 4G in Natal, ahead of Anatel’s required schedule. As of December 2014, we have been providing 4G coverage in compliance with the schedule required by Anatel. Satisfaction of the these coverage commitments demands heavy capital investments and a commitment to acquire products with national technology, with R$1.5 billion to be invested in 4G alone over the next three years. We participated in the auction as a group bidding in the name of TIM and Intelig. We did not bid for the W block (Amazonas as a rural area), which we viewed as having a high premium if compared to the X block (67%), whereas we successfully acquired the V1 block, which in our view held the best CAPEX/OPEX profile associated with rural services in its selected regions (RJ, ES, SC and PR). The joint bid allowed us to take advantage of the flexibility of the auction rules. These bands brought heavy coverage obligations as its short range characteristics demands large investments. The year 2013 began with indications from the government and Anatel that they hoped to speed up the move to digitalization of TV in Brazil. In November 2013, Anatel approved the dedication of a single band, of the 700MHz spectrum, exclusively to mobile services. In September 2014, ANATEL concluded the 700 MHz spectrum auction that granted to TIM, Vivo, Claro and Algar the operation of the 700 MHz frequency for the 4G mobile technology, to be added to the current LTE service in the 2.5 GHz RF. We bid on Block 2 of that auction, for national coverage of the 700 MHz band, and won the same with a bid of R$1.947 billion (a 1% premium over the minimum price of R$1.927 billion). The 700MHz spectrum, with its long range and good penetration characteristics, is very important to the expansion of the mobile data network in the country, offering even better 4G navigation quality to customers and allowing service to reach a greater number of users, supporting both rural obligations and city coverage. Another benefit of our acquisition of Block 2 of the 700MHz spectrum is the potential for economies of scale with respect to equipment and synergy with the Asia-Pacific Telecommunity, or APT, band plan and the European digital dividend for the spectrum. The auction also required the winning bidders to proportionally reimburse the broadcasters for the clean-up of the spectrum previously held and used by them. We have spent R$1.199 billion in order to create in March 2015 an entity called the Entity for Administration of TV and RTV Channel Relocation and Digitalization Process, or EAD, with the other winning bidders, to ensure the spectrum clean-up. The price allocated to clean-up of the spectrum related to unsold blocks was shared proportionately among the winning bidders who bought the other blocks. To offset such additional cost to the winning bidders, the price of the 700 MHz spectrum was discounted using Anatel’s WACC methodology. We have paid R$1.678 billion and accrued R$61 million in our financial statements as of December 31, 2014 (see Note 17(e) to our consolidated financial statements). 61 Table of Contents The Authorization Terms for usage of the 700 MHz spectrum were signed in December 2014 and the Articles of Association and By-laws of EAS were filed on March 2, 2015. VU-M and Wholesale Market The interconnection of telecommunication operators is mandatory, allowing the users of different services to make calls from one network to another. In the case of PCS, Anatel has established that, whenever its network is used to originate or to receive calls, the operators will receive the Value of Use of Mobile Network (Valor de Uso de Rede Móvel), or VU-M, also known as an interconnection rate or mobile termination rate, set by free agreement. Anatel urged us to adopt a single VU-M per region, as such region is set out in the PCS General License Plan (Plano Geral de Autorizações), or PGA, which began on November 1, 2010. We declined to do so and instead choose to commercially negotiate VU-Ms with different providers. Under applicable regulations, VU-M rates could be negotiated among operators with reference rates only applied by Anatel in case of dispute. In October 2011, Anatel decided to reduce fixed to mobile rates, based on a reduction in the respective wholesale interconnection levels on call termination. Anatel proposed a reduction of the fixed to mobile rates of 18% in 2012 and 12% in 2013, based on nominal declines. We believe the rate reductions put in place by Anatel fail to consider the need to preserve PCS market competition, and we filed an administrative appeal with Anatel, which was denied in December 2012. In November 2012, as part of the cost model transition, Anatel set the 2014 mobile termination reference rate VU-M for operators with significant market power in the mobile network inbound calls market at 75% of the valid VU-M in 2013, and the 2015 reference rate VU-M at 50% of the valid VU-M in 2013. Based on that, in December 2013, VU-M prices were published in accordance with Resolution No. 600 for 2014 and 2015. We believe, however, that when Anatel adopted such decisions, it failed to observe the proper administrative process required to issue new regulations. We filed an annulment application with Anatel in connection with the November 2012 resolution, which was denied by Anatel in November 2014. On July 4, 2014, Anatel approved, by means of Resolution No. 639/2014, a rule for the definition of maximum reference rates for entities with significant market power, based on a cost model, for VU-M, TU-RL, and EILD. Pursuant to Anatel’s rule, reference rates will decline based on a glide path until the cost modeling known as LRIC+ Bottom Up is applied (2019, for VU-M and TU-RL; and 2020, for EILD). On July 7, 2014, Anatel published the corresponding Acts No. 6,210/2014, 6,211/2014 and 6,212/2014, which determined the specific reference rates to be adopted as of 2016. It is our position that Anatel’s decision to establish VU-M rates – a price related to the provision of telecommunications services in the private regime – based on a cost model does not comply with Brazilian law. Accordingly, we filed an annulment application with Anatel in connection with the July 2014 resolution, which was rejected by Anatel. In April 2015, we appealed such decision and this appeal is still under review by Anatel. Industrial Exploration of Dedicated Lines In December 2010, Anatel approved a public hearing that considered alterations of the Industrial Exploration of Dedicated Lines (Exploração Industrial de Linha Dedicada) or EILD, which established mechanisms for the operation of transmissions circuits to increase transparency between operators and concessionaires. In May 2012, Anatel approved the new EILD regulations (Regulação de Exploração Industrial de Linha Dedicada) or REILD, or REILD, detailing mechanisms to optimize the operating structure for transmission loop contracts in order to increase contract price transparency and affording equal treatment to independent service providers from concessionaire groups. The REILD specifically sets out more effective rules on project definition including Standard EILD or Special EILD, in addition to contract and delivery terms, and specifies EILD delivery dispute resolution procedures. Concurrently, in May 2012, Anatel approved new EILD reference prices, substantially lower than those previously in place, and a step towards value fixation in disputes between service providers. According to the new REILD, contracts executed prior to its implementation should be amended within 120 days from publication. We have started discussions to amend our EILD contracts, though we have found it necessary to ask Anatel’s intervention to solve certain disputes. While the new REILD provides procedures for promptly resolving disputes involving the provision of dedicated lines, Oi has taken legal actions that delayed the actual amendment of the EILD contracts we had with them. In June 2014, an agreement was settled and we signed new EILD contracts with Oi. 62 Table of Contents Considering that EILD is also a market subject to the asymmetric regulation defined by Anatel in the PGMC, operators classified by Anatel as pertaining to group with significant market power in the EILD market, such as Oi, were required to submit reference prices and offers for Anatel’s approval, as well as to only offer EILD through a specific system designed for the PGMC. In September 2013, Anatel approved, for the first time, reference prices and offers of the operators with significant market power in the EILD market. At least every six months new reference prices and offers must be submitted for Anatel’s approval. We are not currently classified as having significant market power in the EILD market. Costs Modeling The implementation of a costs model by Anatel has been in development since March 2005, when the Separation and Allocation of Accounts Document (Documento de Separação e Alocação de Contas), or DSAC was approved, for pricing of STFC and PCS interconnection, as well as wholesale market inputs, in particular with regards to dedicated lines (EILD) and unbundling. In August 2011, a consortium headed by Advisia Consultants was hired to develop the optimized modeling of costs, which would be the basis for all the models the agency will use, in particular when establishing rates and prices of telecommunications services. The implementation of the costs model was one of the short term goals set by the PGR, with expectation of conclusion in 2013, however it will only be effective in 2016. In December 2012, Anatel held, in Brasilia, the International Seminar on Modeling and costs. The event aimed to provide an overview of the model development costs in the region of the Americas and Brazil. Some meetings have taken since this time to discuss changes in the cost model with national operators. In September 2013, Anatel submitted for public comment a draft of its rule on pricing of STFC and PCS interconnection, as well as EILD, based on a cost model. Such rule and the corresponding reference amounts were published by Anatel in July 2014, establishing that reference amounts based on cost model will come into force in 2016. See – “Interconnection Regulation.” Migration of the Mobile Networks with Analog Technology In February 2011, Anatel approved Resolution No. 562/11, which modified a provision of the regulation on conditions of use of RF, determining that, after a period of 360 days from the publication, the use of analog technology in RF sub bands of 800 MHz would no longer be allowed. In relation to the use of such RF, we no longer have any subscriber of analog technology (AMPS). However, our analog networks are still used by STFC concessionaires to provide services to subscribers in rural areas of the country, a service called RuralCel. The implementation of the RuralCel service was carried out by the companies in the Telebrás system, prior to the privatization process in 1998. Once the privatization of these companies was completed, SMC operators are required to keep sharing such infrastructure (mobile networks with analog technology) with STFC concessionaires with rural subscribers. There is a dispute with STFC concessionaires as to the compensation payable for the availability of the RuralCel support network. Anatel decided to temporarily postpone shutting down this service, but only until March 2016. We continue to interact with the regulating agency regarding the shutdown of our analog mobile networks. 63 Table of Contents Regulation of Quality In October 2011, Anatel published PCS and SCM quality management regulations to establish quality parameters which were to have been met by the mobile telephone and Internet connection operators in up to 12 months. Most quality parameters established became effective in October and November 2012. Among such quality parameters, most notable are the ones relating to the quality of the networks, both mobile and fixed, creating obligations of minimum and average speeds in numbers, higher than those currently used by operators, which required investments so that such obligations could be met. As a response to the need to better quantify the financial impacts, Grupo Oi has presented cancellation request along with a revision request to Anatel for the presentation of technical surveys of the economic impacts of the new regulations. The aforementioned request was submitted for a public hearing by Anatel, which resulted in a series of differing opinions regarding quality measures by the different operations that are currently being considered by Anatel. With regard to STFC, Anatel approved in December 2012 the Quality Management Regulation for STFC service providers, the purpose of which is the creation of a new quality management model available, such as Quality Management Regulation for PCS and SCM. In February 2013, Anatel published STFC quality management regulations to establish quality parameters which should be met by fixed telephone operators in 120 days. All parameters established became effective in June 2013. Consolidation of TIM and Intelig STFC Licenses With the acquisition of Intelig by TIM Participações, we were required to eliminate the existing overlapping licenses in order to abide by regulations. We were given 18 months to implement these changes, beginning on the date of closing of the transaction. This term was later extended for an additional 12 months, expiring on June 30, 2012. On December 30, 2011 we filed petitions with Anatel to authorize the consolidation of our STFC license terms in the local mode under Intelig and STFC LDN and LDI under TIM. On June 30, 2012 we returned CSP 23 to Anatel, keeping the operation of STFC LDN and LDI bound to CSP 41 TIM Celular S.A. license, whereas Intelig keep the STFC local license. The amendments to the STFC Instrument of Authorization executed between TIM/Intelig and Anatel providing on the foregoing statutes were published on October 26, 2012. On August 29, 2012, the companies TIM Fiber SP and TIM Fiber RJ formalized before Anatel their waiver of SCM exploration authorizations. Promptly thereafter, both companies were merged into TIM Celular S.A, which is already authorized to provide such services. Anatel terminated the SCM authorizations held by TIM Fiber SP and TIM Fiber RJ. Upon absorption of TIM Fiber SP and TIM Fiber RJ, TIM Celular S.A, as successor in interest, became the provider of the services previously provided by these companies. Inclusion of ninth digit in several areas In December 2010, Anatel published Resolution No. 553/2010, determining the inclusion of one more digit for mobile numbers in the 011 area code region, which includes the city of São Paulo and neighboring cities. The change requires users to add the digit 9 to the beginning of existing mobile numbers. Anatel’s decision to add one more digit to mobile phone numbers in the 011 area code was intended to increase the availability of numbers in the metropolitan area of São Paulo from 37 million to 90 million, as it is expected that availability of mobile numbers would end by 2013 at the current rate of subscription growth. The ninth digit was successfully implemented on July 29, 2012. This measure requires residents of the 011 area code region to carry out possible adjustments to private equipment and systems such as, for example, PABX equipment and phone lists, in addition to technical adjustments carried out by telecommunication companies. Technical, Communications and Regulatory work groups have been created by representatives of all PCS and STFC operators, in order to prepare for the implementation of the ninth digit in a synchronized way for all the operators, with standardized communication to avoid adjustment difficulties for users. 64 Table of Contents After July 29, 2012, calls to mobile numbers using the 8 digits were still completed for a 90-day period, to allow networks and users to adapt. During these 90 days, operators implemented gradual interceptions and users received messages with guidance on how to dial. After this transition period, calls to mobile numbers dialed with 8 digits were no longer completed. The ninth digit was implemented in all the remaining areas of the state of São Paulo on August 25, 2013, and in the states of Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo on October 27, 2013. Beginning on November 2, 2014, referred to as “D Day”, the ninth digit was implemented in the states of Amapá, Amazonas, Maranhão, Pará and Roraima. Anatel has defined the terms for implementing the ninth digit in PCS in other locations in Brazil, as follows: Term State National Codes December 31, 2015 Alagoas, Bahia, Ceará, Minas Gerais, Paraíba, Pernambuco, Piauí, Rio Grande do Norte, Sergipe 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 71, 73, 74, 75, 77, 79, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, and 89 December 31, 2016 Acre, Distrito Federal, Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, Rondônia, Santa Catarina, Tocantins 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 51, 53, 54, 55, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, and 69 Anatel Administrative Proceedings Under the terms of its PCS authorization, TIM Celular implemented mobile personal telecommunications coverage for the assigned area. Under such term of authorization, TIM Celular is required to operate in accordance with the quality standards established by Anatel. If it fails to meet the minimum quality standards required, TIM Celular is subject to Obligation Non-Compliance Determination Procedures, or PADO, and applicable penalties. Anatel has brought administrative proceedings against the TIM Group for (1) noncompliance with certain quality service indicators (PGMQ); and (2) default of certain other obligations assumed under the Terms of Authorization and pertinent regulations (Resolution nº.477). In its defense before Anatel, the TIM Group attributed the lack of compliance to items beyond its control and not related to its activities and actions. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings at this time, but have accrued the amount in our balance sheet as a provision for all those cases in which we estimate our loss to be probable. C. Organizational Structure We are part of the Telecom Italia Group, which is engaged principally in the communications sector and, particularly, the fixed and mobile national and international telecommunications sector, the television sector and the office products sector. The operating segments of the Telecom Italia Group are organized according to the relative geographical localization for the telecommunications business (Domestic—Italy, Brazil and Argentina). We are currently held, directly and indirectly, by Telecom Italia through its wholly owned subsidiary, TIM Brasil. Substantially all assets held by TIM Participações consist of the shares of its wholly owned subsidiaries TIM Celular (incorporated in the Federative Republic of Brazil and headquarters located in the State of São Paulo), and Intelig (incorporated in the Federative Republic of Brazil and headquarters located in the State of Rio de Janeiro). 65 Table of Contents The following chart illustrates our current ownership structure: D. Property, Plants and Equipment Our principal properties consist of transmission equipment, switching equipment, which connect calls to and from customers, and radio base stations, which comprise certain signal transmission and reception equipment covering a defined area. At our radio base stations we have also installed antennas and certain equipment to connect these antennas with our switching equipment. As of December 31, 2014, we had 125 MGW, 75 MSC-S, 405 radio controller stations, 10,375 B Nodes, 1,841 eB Nodes, 12,715 BTS and approximately 54,000 kilometers in fiber optic cable networks. We generally lease or buy the sites where our mobile telecommunications network equipment is installed. On December 31, 2014, we owned approximately 202,752 square meters and leased approximately 1,351,486 square meters of real property, all of which were available for installation of our equipment. We also lease approximately 140,821 square meters and owns approximately 140,936 square meters of office space. There are no material encumbrances that may affect our utilization of our property or equipment. All of our property and equipment is owned or leased domestically; we do not own or lease any property or equipment outside of Brazil. For the years 2015 through 2017, according to 2015-2017 Industrial Plan, we plan to invest up to R$14 billion in capital expenditures, around R$10 billion of which will be invested in constructing, expanding, improving and buying network improvements, such as deploying more antennas and adding capacity to the antennas we already own. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects A. Operating Results The following discussion of the Company’s financial condition and operating results should be read in conjunction with the Company’s audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 included in this annual report that have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, issued by IASB as well as with the information presented under “Item 3. Key Information—A. Selected Financial Data.” Brazilian Political and Economic Overview Brazilian Economy During 2014, economic growth in Brazil slowed, with GDP growing by just 0.1% annually. Growth is expected to remain modest in 2015 due to tighter monetary and fiscal policies, weak external demand and low levels of investment. Standard & Poor’s lowered Brazil’s credit rating in March for the first time in more than a decade to the lowest level of investment grade (yet notably maintaining investment grade status), citing slower growth as well as deteriorating fiscal accounts. Nevertheless, due to lower levels unemployment, domestic demand remains strong and consumption is on pace with recent growth. 66 Table of Contents The official inflation rate was 6.41% in 2014, above the 5.91% recorded in 2013 and the 4.5% rate targeted by the Central Bank, but within the “oscillating” band of plus or minus two percentage points considered acceptable by the Central Bank. Inflation was negatively impacted by increased electricity prices, which rose by 17.06% and housing prices, which rose 8.8%. Inflation increased monthly throughout 2015, as measured by the IPCA-15, which records inflation from approximately the 15th of the previous month to the 15th of the current month, by 0.89% over the month of January, 1.33% over the month of February, and 1.24% over the month of March, driving the 12 months accumulated inflation at the end of March to 7.90%, above inflation targets. Uncertainty regarding certain government fiscal measures could contribute to greater inflation over the course of 2015. Inflation directly impacts our results of operations as result of certain of our assets and liabilities being subject to inflation adjustment, although the impact of these adjustments has not been material during the reported periods. In 2014, the net impact of inflation adjustments was a loss of R$100.5 million and in 2013, was a loss of R$57.3 million. The loss in 2014 can be explained by inflation adjustments on a R$93 million loan and on a R$913 million loan, each from BNDES (see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Funds—Financial Contracts”) and, to a lesser extent, losses due to inflation adjustment on provisions for the aggregate contingency value of public civil actions and lawsuits pending against us (see “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings”). In addition to the foregoing direct impacts, if inflation rises, disposable income of families may decrease in real terms, leading to lack of purchasing power among our customer base. Measures to combat inflation, such as a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, result in restrictions on credit and short-term liquidity, further decreasing the purchasing power of our customers. The trend of a depreciating real continued throughout 2013, with the real reaching a high of R$2.77 per U.S.$1.00 in December 2014, and ending the year at R$2.659 per U.S. $1.00. By December 31, 2014, the U.S. dollar had appreciated 12.78% versus the real over the course of the year. Exchange rate fluctuations affect our financial performance and results of operations. Devaluation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products. We acquire our equipment and handsets from global suppliers, the prices of which are denominated in U.S. dollars, and accordingly depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may result in a relative increase in the price of our equipment and handsets. Thus, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our need to make substantial dollar-denominated expenditures, particularly for imported components, equipment and handsets, that we have limited capacity to hedge. With respect to loans denominated in currencies other than reais, we enter into currency swaps to hedge against exchange rate fluctuations (see “—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Funds—Financial Contracts”). The sharp depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar may also generate inflation and governmental measures to fight possible inflationary outbreaks, including the increase in interest rates. Any such macroeconomic effects could adversely affect our net operating revenues and our overall financial performance. Efforts by the Brazilian government to stimulate the economy were reversed in 2013 and 2014 due to this inflationary pressure. As of December 31, 2013, the SELIC rate was 10.00% and as of December 31, 2014, it was 11.75%. The Brazilian current account closed the year with a deficit of U.S.$90.94 billion or 4.17% of GDP, an increase in the deficit from 2013 when the deficit reached U.S.$81.34 billion. The 2014 deficit was the highest recorded since the Central Bank began recording this metric in 1947. The main causes for this result were the deficit of US$3.93 billion in the trade balance and the deficit on services account of US$ 48.67 billion. Direct external investments totaled U.S.$62.49 billion, insufficient to cover the current deficit. See “Item 3. Key Information—A. Selected Financial Data” for further information regarding Brazilian governmental fiscal and monetary policies related to the above factors. 67 Table of Contents Brazilian Mobile Market The Brazilian mobile market reached 280.7 million lines nationwide at the end of December 2014, corresponding to a penetration ratio of 138.0% (compared to 134.4% in 2013) and an annual growth rate of 3.6% (compared to 3.5% in 2013). Brazil is the fifth largest mobile telephony market in the world, and telephony is currently the most common means of communication in Brazilian households among all social classes. According to Anatel, mobile market net adds reached 9.6 million in 2014 which represents a 3.7% increase from 2013’s 9.3 million net adds. Prepaid subscribers continue to represent the greatest part of total subscriber base, reaching 75.8% by the end of 2014. Our subscriber base ended 2014 with 75.7 million clients, a 3.1% increase from 2013, corresponding to a market share of 26.97%, making us the second largest mobile operator in the market. Our prepaid business reached 63.2 million clients (a 3.4% increase from 2013), maintaining the position of leader in this important business. Our postpaid business had 12.5 million users at the end of 2014, a 1.8% increase from 2013. With regard to our client mix, postpaid clients accounted for 16.5% of our total subscriber base, compared to 15.8% in 2013. In 2014, we added 2.3 million customers, down from 3.1 million in 2013. Our ARPU was R$17.67 in 2014. On a yearly basis, ARPU saw a decline of 5.0%, partially attributed to the reduction in VU-M reference rates and long distance calls commoditization. ARPU is a key performance indicator which is calculated for any period as total net service revenue divided by average customer base. In 2014, our average customer base, calculated as the simple mean of monthly averages, increased 1.7% to 74.4 million, compared to 73.1 million customers in 2013. The following table shows the total average number of customers during 2014, 2013 and 2012. Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands of users) Average number of customers using postpaid plans(1) 12,230 12,105 10,004 Average number of customers using prepaid plans(1) 62,126 61,000 58,042 Total number of customers(1) 74,356 73,105 68,046 (1) Average numbers are based on the number of customers at the end of each month during the relevant year, including December of the previous year. Factors Affecting the Comparability of our Results of Operations None. Critical Accounting Policies Critical accounting policies are those that are important to the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most subjective, complex judgments, often requiring management to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. As the number of variables and assumptions affecting the possible future resolution of the uncertainties increases, those judgments become more complex. We base our estimates and assumptions on historical experience, industry trends or other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may vary from what we anticipate, and different assumptions or estimates about the future could change our reported financial results. In order to provide an understanding about how our management has estimated the potential impact of certain uncertainties, including the variables and assumptions underlying the estimates, we have identified the critical accounting policies discussed below. We describe our significant accounting policies, including the ones discussed below, in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. Depreciation and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost of acquisition or construction. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the underlying assets. See Notes 4(k) and 17 to our consolidated financial statements. We currently depreciate automatic switching, transmission and other equipment based on an estimated useful life of seven years. 68 Table of Contents We review our long-lived assets, such as goodwill, for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and eventual disposition. At least annually, the Company applies the recoverability test on the recorded goodwill. The calculations were performed based on the discounted cash flow using as parameters the assumptions included in the Company’s 2015-2017 Industrial Plan, growth rate compatible with our market conditions and a discount rate of between 12.5% and 13% per year. The fair value of the cash generating units, as of the latest impairment testing date, is substantially in excess of their carrying value. However, asset impairment evaluations are, by nature, highly subjective. If our projections are not met, we may have to record impairment charges not previously recognized. In analyzing potential impairments, we use projections based on our view of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic, regulatory and political conditions and changes in technology. Such projections are subject to change, including as a result of technological developments that may render long-lived assets obsolete sooner than anticipated. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the failure of our customers to make required payments. We revise our estimated percentage of losses on a regular basis, taking into account our most recent experience with non-payments (i.e. average percentage of receivables historically written-off, economic conditions and the length of time the receivables are past due). The provision for doubtful accounts for 2014 was based on the following estimates of receivables, classified by the number of days such receivables are overdue, that it projected to be uncollectible. These estimates were based on the profile of the subscriber portfolio, the overdue aging of accounts receivable, the economic situation, the risks involved in each case, and the collection curve, all of which might impact the collectability of accounts. The amount of the loss, if any, that we actually experience with respect to these accounts may differ from the amount of the allowance maintained in connection with them. See Notes 4(f) and 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our allowance for doubtful accounts. Days overdue Accounts Receivable Falling due 2,887,221 Past due for up to 30 days 161,726 Past due for up to 60 days 59,178 Past due for up to 90 days 385,012 Past due for more than 90 days 447,743 Total 3,940,880 Deferred Income Tax and Social Contribution We compute and pay income taxes based on results of operations under IFRS. We regularly review deferred tax assets for recoverability. If, based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income and expected timing of reversals we determine that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. When performing such reviews, we are required to make significant estimates and assumptions about future taxable income. In order to determine future taxable income, we need to estimate future taxable revenues and deductible expenses, which are subject to different external and internal factors such as economic conditions, industry trends, interest rates, shifts in our business strategy and changes in the type of services we offer. The use of different assumptions and estimates could significantly change our financial statements. A change in assumptions and estimates with respect to our expected future taxable income could result in the recognition of a valuation allowance on deferred income tax assets, which would decrease our results of operations and shareholders’ equity. 69 Table of Contents If we operate at a loss or are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates, if the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if there is any change in our future projections, we could be required to establish a valuation allowance against all or a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, resulting in a substantial increase in our effective tax rate and a material adverse impact on our operating results. The taxable income projections used in determining the recoverability of our deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009 were derived from our strategic plan for the three years covering 2010 through 2012, or the 2010-2012 Industrial Plan. At that time, our 2010-2012 Industrial Plan forecasted our income for the following three fiscal years, with assumptions reflecting conditions we expected to exist and the course of actions we expect to take. Based on the three-year projections included in our 2010-2012 Industrial Plan, we projected income out for a further seven years (to 2019). However, we did not extend our projections beyond the basic three years for the valuation allowance of our deferred tax assets because we believe that the uncertainties described below made any extension of our projections difficult to support at the more-likely-than-not level, required for projections in this context. We limited our projections to three years in determining the amount of the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets at December 31, 2009. The principal uncertainties underlying our decision to limit the projections to three years at December 31, 2009 were: · TIM Celular had a history of losses; · at the end of 2009, Brazil was expecting a presidential election in 2010, generating uncertainties in relation to longer future projections and taxation; · at the end of 2009, the economy was still recovering from the worldwide financial crises, generating a strong level of uncertainties in longer term future projections. In addition, we believed there was significant uncertainty regarding the Brazilian economy, including with respect to domestic inflation and commodities prices; and · in 2009, compared to 2008, the subsidiary TIM Celular did not experience growth in revenues and had a modest growth in profitability. Further, as described before in this Form, the Company lost approximately five hundred thousand clients from its average postpaid customer during 2009 when compared to 2008, and had a deterioration in its brand awareness and customers satisfaction. As a result, substantial efforts were made to turn around the Company (including the subsidiary TIM Celular) starting in the second half of 2009, including: (1) a substantial change in management (e.g. CEO, COO, CTO); (2) re-launching of the strategy and positioning of TIM in the market; (3) new and innovative services and products (“Infinity” and “Liberty”). In addition to the above uncertainties, we also considered the inherent subjectivity of the positive evidence underlying our projections of future taxable income, such as the expectation that new management and a new business plan at TIM Celular would lead to a turnaround at that business. In evaluating the negative and positive evidence in assessing the likelihood of predicable earnings after 2012, we believed that the negative evidence outweighed the positive evidence. As a result of all of the foregoing, we believed that the valuation allowance as at December 31, 2009 was necessary because our projections showed that the deferred tax assets were not recoverable to the extent of the allowance. By the end of 2010, TIM Celular had clear evidence of the success of the strategy implemented during 2009. Accordingly, our actual 2010 results were significantly better than those we considered in our projections prepared in the end of 2009. The main positive factors that lead TIM Celular to better results were: · 2010 final customer base of 51 million, showing an additional 4.6 million in new customers when compared to the projected customer base. Revenues were higher by approximately R$200 million in comparison to projected revenues; · efficiency plans effectiveness. During 2010, our costs and expenses were lower by approximately R$250 million in comparison to the projected amounts, partially due to cost saving programs and partially due to synergies from Tim Nordeste merging process; 70 Table of Contents · success of the new products (“Infinity” and “Liberty”) launched during 2009; · progressive exit from offering handset subsidies; · significant reduction of handsets classified as property, plant and equipment (handsets owned by the Company and provided free of charge to corporate customers) with consequent reduction in depreciation (actual depreciation amount in 2010 was lower by R$300 million in relation to projected depreciation); and · increase in cash generation, resulting in reduced indebtedness and lower net financial expenses (financial expenses were approximately R$100 million lower than the expected in the projections). Considering the reduction in the uncertainties we had at the end of 2009, as of December 31, 2010 we updated our business plan for the years 2011-2013 and subsequent projections based on our belief that future income generation would be higher than expected at the end of 2009. Based on the expected taxable income to be generated in future years and the growing stability of the economy after the uncertainty in 2009, at the end of 2010 we released in its entirety the valuation allowance for tax loss carry forwards related to our subsidiary TIM Celular that was recorded at December 31, 2009. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Company continued to generate taxable income in line with projections approved in the 2010 business plan. Asset Retirement Obligations Our subsidiaries are contractually obligated to dismantle their cellular towers from various sites they lease. We must record as asset retirement obligations the present value of the estimated costs to be incurred for dismantling and removing cellular towers and equipment from leased sites. The offset to this provision is recorded as property, plant and equipment, and the depreciation is calculated based on the useful lives of the corresponding assets. Provisions and Contingent Liabilities The accrual for a provision or contingency involves considerable judgment to be performed by management. Both provisions and contingencies involve an existing condition, situation, or set of circumstances which result in uncertainty as to the related likelihood of gain or loss to an enterprise that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. A provision is defined as a probable loss registered in a company’s financial statements, while a contingency is a possible or remote loss registered in a company’s financial statements. We are subject to various claims, including regulatory, legal and labor proceedings covering a wide range of matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. We adopted the policy of analyzing each proceeding and making a judgment as to whether a loss is probable, possible or remote. We account for accruals (that is, record provisions) when we determine that losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Our judgment is always based on the opinion of our external legal advisors. Balances for provisions may be adjusted to account for changes in circumstances relating to ongoing matters and we may establish additional accruals for new matters. While we believe that the current level of provisions is adequate, changes in the future could impact these determinations. Revenue Recognition Revenues are recorded when services are rendered. As a result of our billing cycle cut-off times, we are required to make estimates for services revenue earned but not yet billed. These estimates, which are based primarily upon unbilled minutes of use, could differ from our actual calculation. See Notes 4(u) and 5(g) to our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with “