1A. Risk Factors” for a detailed discussion of some of the factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. We qualify all our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. There may also be other factors that may materially affect our forward-looking statements and our future results. As a result of the foregoing, readers should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation and do not intend to update any forward-looking statement. Special Note Regarding DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc.’s Common Stock and 2.50% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2025 (the “Debentures”) Effective at the opening of business on October 27, 2006, trading in our common stock on The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc.’s Global Market, or The NASDAQ Global Market, was suspended and our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market because we did not meet the aggregate market value of listed securities requirement of Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(A). The delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market constituted a “fundamental change” under that certain Indenture, dated as of December 22, 2004, by and between DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc., as Issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, which governs the terms of our 2.50% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2025. As a result, we were obligated to make an Offer to Repurchase to all holders of the Debentures under the Indenture at a price of $1,012.50 per $1,000 principal amount, representing such principal amount plus $12.50 of accrued but unpaid interest thereon. 3 The Offer to Repurchase expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on January 2, 2007. Through the expiration of the Offer to Repurchase, we received tenders of Debentures in the aggregate principal amount of $67.8 million, representing approximately 96.9% of the $70.0 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding Debentures. Upon the expiration of the Offer to Repurchase, we did not have the funds necessary to pay the aggregate purchase price of approximately $68.7 million for the Debentures that were tendered. As a result, no Debentures were accepted for payment by us in connection with the Offer to Repurchase. Our failure to pay for the Debentures tendered to us for repurchase in the Offer to Repurchase constituted an “event of default” under the Indenture. We retained Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin Capital, Inc. to serve as our financial advisor to assist with our evaluation of strategic alternatives and restructuring efforts with respect to the Debentures. In January 2007, we entered into a Restructuring Support Agreement with certain members of an ad hoc committee of holders of our Debentures regarding a consensual restructuring of our obligations under the Debentures. Holders of the Debentures who beneficially owned approximately 88% in principal amount of the outstanding Debentures agreed to tender their Debentures in the Exchange Offer described below and agreed not to take any actions or exercise any remedies relating to our failure to repurchase the Debentures pursuant to the Offer to Repurchase, unless we commenced any bankruptcy or similar proceeding or such a proceeding was commenced against us or the Restructuring Support Agreement was terminated for any other reason under the terms of the Restructuring Support Agreement. On January 29, 2007, we offered (the “Exchange Offer”) to exchange 8 shares of a new series of convertible preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share and liquidation preference $100 per share (the “new series C convertible preferred stock”), plus a cash payment of $212.50 for each $1,000 in principal amount of our outstanding Debentures. We also offered as an alternative to the 8 shares of new series C convertible preferred stock to exchange 8 shares of an alternative new series of convertible preferred stock, par value $1.00 per share with no fixed liquidation preference (the “alternative series D convertible preferred stock”). The cash payment and shares of the new series C convertible preferred stock or, if chosen, the alternative series D convertible preferred stock, was offered in full satisfaction of the principal amount of, and any accrued but unpaid interest through the consummation of the Exchange Offer on, the Debentures so tendered and accepted. The Exchange Offer was consummated on March 15, 2007. Pursuant to the Exchange Offer, we made a cash payment of $14.3 million and issued 439,784 shares of our new series C convertible preferred stock and 100,000 shares of our alternative series D convertible preferred stock in exchange for $67.5 million in principal amount of Debentures. Additionally, the $2.5 million in principal amount of Debentures that remained outstanding after the consummation of the Exchange Offer was recently accelerated by the majority holder of such Debentures in accordance with the Indenture governing the Debentures and, on March 29, 2007, we repaid such Debentures at par plus accrued interest. In addition, we will distribute to holders of our common stock as of a date to be determined by our board of directors, and in any event prior to July 1, 2007, in one or more distributions or other transactions, warrants to purchase 30 million shares of our common stock. The exercise price will be approximately $0.523 per share. The warrants will be exercisable on and after July 1, 2007 until December 31, 2009. 4 ITEM I. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, acquisition and development of novel drug candidates for central nervous system, or CNS, disorders. We have active drug development programs that are at the preclinical, Phase I and Phase II clinical stages, including DOV 21,947 (entering Phase II for depression), DOV 102,677 (Phase I for alcohol abuse) and an active preclinical discovery program in reuptake inhibitors and GABA modulators. We have entered into a sublicensing agreement with Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., or Neurocrine, for indiplon for the treatment of insomnia and with XTL Development, Inc., or XTL, for bicifadine for the treatment of pain. We are seeking a partner for DOV diltiazem for the treatment of angina and hypertension. DOV 21,947, our lead product candidate for depression, is a triple reuptake inhibitor (serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine inhibitor), or TRI. We intend to initiate a 300-patient Phase II clinical trial in July of 2007. DOV 21,947 is related to DOV 216,303, another of our TRIs. In 2005, we announced statistically significant efficacy results from a Phase II clinical trial with DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression. DOV 102,677 is another of our TRIs, for which the next study will be a Phase I clinical trial in normal volunteers and may be initiated in late 2007 if appropriate funding is available. Our reuptake inhibitor platforms, including TRIs, NEDs (norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), SADs (serotonin and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), and SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors) can be tailored to create compounds that are able to treat a wide variety of neuropsychiatric disorders ranging from depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder to pain and obesity. We have molecules belonging to each of these classes in various stages of preclinical development. We intend to select a triple reuptake inhibitor development candidate from our preclinical pipeline in 2007 and file an IND for the selected compound with the FDA in early 2008. The primary objective of our GABA modulator program is the development of a molecule producing a robust anti-anxiety action without the side effects associated with benzodiazepines such as diazepam (Valium®). Molecules fitting this profile are in various stages of preclinical development. Further, GABA modulators also have proven utility as sedative-hypnotics, anticonvulsants, and muscle relaxants, and we have discovered several unique structural platforms that may be developed for these indications. Indiplon has consistently demonstrated decreased time to sleep onset, improved measures of sleep maintenance and duration and improved sleep quality with no next day impairment in over 70 clinical trials involving nearly 8,000 patients. Neurocrine has announced that it plans to resubmit its New Drug Application (NDA) for indiplon capsules by the end of the second quarter of 2007. Bicifadine has been shown to be effective in treating pain in three placebo-controlled efficacy trials in more than 1,600 patients with acute post-surgical pain. We have also conducted three Phase III clinical trials of bicifadine in chronic low back pain (CLBP) and one Phase II trial of bicifadine in osteoarthritis. Bicifadine has demonstrated an attractive safety profile in short- and long-term safety studies involving more than 3,000 patients. Also, we have completed lifetime carcinogenicity studies in rats and mice with no meaningful signals of carcinogenicity detected after approximately two years of dosing, an outcome that we expect to be acceptable to the FDA. XTL has indicated that it intends to pursue the treatment of chronic neuropathic pain for bicifadine’s further development and plans to initiate a Phase II clinical trial in 2007. 5 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company focused primarily on products for the treatment of CNS disorders. In October 2006, we announced a new strategic direction and strategy for the Company, the key elements of which are to: Pursue development of our lead product candidates. We have four product candidates undergoing clinical development either by us or a sub-licensee. These product candidates address four separate and substantial pharmaceutical markets: insomnia, pain, depression and alcohol abuse. We have designed the clinical programs for the product candidates we are developing in an effort to provide clear and defined paths to attain regulatory approval. We intend to continue to devote substantial amount of our resources to earlier stage clinical testing. Selectively establish corporate collaborations to assist in the development and commercialization of our products and mitigate financial risk. We intend to pursue corporate collaborations with partners to leverage their resources and their development, regulatory and commercialization expertise to advance the clinical development of our product candidates. We currently have collaborations with Neurocrine for indiplon and with XTL for bicifadine. Expand our product candidate portfolio with novel drug candidates that address unmet needs in large, established markets. We seek to identify and develop, either internally or through collaborative agreements, novel drug candidates that address unmet needs in large, established markets. We intend to continue expanding our existing product candidate portfolio by discovering and developing novel drug compounds both internally and through focused outsourced research and development. We also hope to expand our portfolio by identifying, in-licensing and developing additional compounds that are potentially superior to currently marketed products and by developing additional applications and formulations for our existing discovery and licensed compounds. Reduce clinical development and commercialization risk by building a diversified product portfolio. We have built and intend to continue to build a portfolio of diverse product candidates to address CNS disorders to reduce the risks associated with the clinical development of any one drug. We have focused our in-licensing and development resources on compounds in all stages of research and clinical development for which there exists a significant amount of informative preclinical or clinical data. We believe this reduces the risk that these compounds will have safety concerns and enhances our chances of demonstrating efficacy in clinical trials. We focus on developing compounds with diverse mechanisms of action to limit the risk of difficulties associated with a particular mechanism of action. Finally, a single mechanism of action may have multiple therapeutic uses. We intend to investigate the efficacy of our compounds for these diverse uses in order to enhance the commercial potential of our product candidates. We believe that our portfolio approach reduces undue dependence on any single compound or therapeutic application to achieve commercial success and creates multiple potential sources of revenue. OUR PRODUCT PIPELINE The following table summarizes certain of our product candidates currently in development either by us or through our sub-licensees: Product Indication(s) Status Marketing Rights Indiplon Insomnia Registration(1) Neurocrine Bicifadine Pain Phase II/Phase III(2) XTL DOV 21,947 Depression Phase II planned for 2007 DOV Obesity Preclinical DOV DOV 102,677 Alcohol Abuse / Alcoholism Phase Ib contemplated(3) DOV Triple reuptake inhibitor Depression Pre-IND(4) DOV (1) Neurocrine has stated that it plans to resubmit its NDA for indiplon capsules by the end of the second quarter of 2007. 6 (2) Our partner, XTL, has stated that it intends to initiate a Phase IIb clinical trial in neuropathic pain in 2007 with bicifadine. Bicifadine has been studied in five Phase III clinical trials. (3) We may initiate a Phase I clinical trial in normal volunteers for DOV 102,677 to support subsequent studies in the alcohol abuse indication in late 2007 if appropriate funding is available. (4) We intend to select a triple reuptake inhibitor development candidate from our preclinical pipeline in 2007 and file an IND for the selected compound with the FDA in early 2008. For an explanation of the terms Preclinical, Phase I, Phase II, Phase III and Registration, please refer to the text in subheading “Government Regulation” in this “Business” section. OUR PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Clinical Development Programs Indiplon: Our Product Candidate for Insomnia Insomnia is a neurological disorder with approximately 86 million adults in the United States reporting trouble sleeping a few nights per week or more, according to a 2006 report from Mattson Jack (an epidemiological database used to determine the prevalence of a disease or disorder). Mattson Jack also reports that approximately 26 million adults in the United States experience chronic insomnia, having trouble sleeping every night or almost every night. In addition, according to the National Sleep Foundation (2003), frequent sleep problems in individuals that are 55 to 84 years old, if ignored, can complicate the treatment of other medical conditions, including arthritis, diabetes, heart and lung disease and depression. According to IMS Health, the United States insomnia pharmaceutical market was $2.8 billion in 2005 and was expected to exceed $3.1 billion in 2006. Researchers have found that insomnia can be treated by drugs that interact with the site of action of a natural brain chemical involved in promoting and maintaining sleep. This chemical is called gamma amino-butyric acid, or GABA, and the site of action is called the GABA A receptor. Beginning in the 1960’s, drugs that non-selectively target the GABA A receptor, known as benzodiazepines or BDZs, were used as sedatives to treat insomnia. This class of drugs produces several undesirable side effects, including negative interactions with other central nervous system depressants, such as alcohol, the development of tolerance upon repeat dosing, and rebound insomnia, or the worsening of insomnia following discontinuation of dosing. Additional side effects, due to the long half-life, or the duration of action of a compound, associated with this class of drugs include next-day residual sedation effects and impairment of coordination and memory. During the late 1980s, a class of drugs known as non-BDZs was developed to target a specific population of GABA A receptors. The non-BDZs have been reported to produce a reduced incidence of side effects. This is believed to be attributable to the non-BDZs binding more selectively than the BDZs to a specific GABA A receptor subtype. The most commonly prescribed of the non-BDZs in the United States are Ambien ® , Ambien CR ® , Sonata ® and Lunesta ® . According to IMS Health, Ambien ® is the current market leader in the United States, with sales of $2.1 billion in 2005. Indiplon, our insomnia product candidate, is a non-BDZ. In 1998, we licensed indiplon from Wyeth Holdings Corporation, or Wyeth, and sublicensed it to Neurocrine. We are entitled to a 3.5 percent royalty on worldwide net sales of indiplon, if any. Indiplon is a non-BDZ GABA A receptor agonist which acts via the same mechanism as the currently marketed non-BDZ therapeutics. However, preclinical studies suggest that indiplon has fewer side effects than currently marketed non- BDZs, including Ambien ® and Sonata ® . In Phase II and III clinical studies, indiplon demonstrated efficacy with no significant next-day residual sedation effects at clinically relevant doses. 7 Neurocrine has developed indiplon in both a short acting capsule formulation and a longer acting tablet formulation. To develop these two different formulations, Neurocrine has capitalized on important features of indiplon, its rapid absorption and its short half-life in the body. Based on its clinical studies, Neurocrine determined that the concentration of indiplon in the bloodstream reaches levels high enough to induce sedation approximately 15 minutes after the patient takes the pill. Indiplon is then rapidly metabolized and eliminated. The result for the patient is rapid sleep onset followed by rapid elimination of the drug from the body, reducing the risk of next-day residual sedation effects. Indiplon has been developed to address the most prevalent forms of insomnia — difficulty falling asleep; difficulty staying asleep; and difficulty getting back to sleep after middle of the night awakenings. Both forms of indiplon are intended to improve sleep quality without creating drug induced impairment upon awakening. Based on the results of preclinical studies and Phase I, Phase II and Phase III clinical trials of indiplon, as well as a non-clinical data package related to indiplon manufacturing, formulation and commercial product development, Neurocrine assembled and filed NDAs with the FDA for both indiplon capsules and indiplon tablets. On May 15, 2006, Neurocrine received two complete responses from the FDA regarding indiplon capsule and tablet NDAs. These responses indicated that indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules were approvable (“FDA Approvable Letter”) and that the 15 mg tablets were not approvable (“FDA Not Approvable Letter”). The FDA Approvable Letter requested that Neurocrine reanalyze data from certain preclinical and clinical studies to support approval of indiplon 5 mg and 10 mg capsules for sleep initiation and middle of the night dosing. The FDA Approvable Letter also requested reexamination of the safety analyses. Neurocrine held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Approvable Letter in August 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon capsules from Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon capsules. At the meeting the FDA requested that the resubmission include further analyses and modifications of analyses previously submitted to address questions raised by the FDA in the initial review. This reanalysis has been substantially completed. The FDA also requested, and Neurocrine has completed, a supplemental pharmacokinetic/food effect profile of indiplon capsules including several meal types. The NDA for indiplon capsules is currently being updated to include responses to the FDA requests and is targeted to be resubmitted to the FDA by the end of the second quarter of 2007. The FDA Not Approvable Letter requested that Neurocrine reanalyze certain safety and efficacy data and questioned the sufficiency of the objective sleep maintenance clinical data with the 15 mg tablet in view of the fact that the majority of the indiplon tablet studies were conducted with doses higher than 15 mg. Neurocrine held an end-of-review meeting with the FDA related to the FDA Not Approvable Letter in October 2006. This meeting was specifically focused on determining the actions needed to bring indiplon tablets from Not Approvable to Approval in the resubmission of the NDA for indiplon tablets. The FDA has requested additional long-term safety and efficacy data with the 15 mg dose for the adult population and the development of a separate dose for the elderly population. In discussions, Neurocrine and the FDA noted positive efficacy data for sleep maintenance with both indiplon capsules and tablets. On the basis of these discussions, Neurocrine is formulating a strategy to pursue a sleep maintenance claim for indiplon. The evaluation of indiplon for sleep maintenance is ongoing and includes both indiplon capsules and tablets. The preceding descriptions of Neurocrine’s clinical development and clinical trial results for indiplon are based solely on Neurocrine’s public disclosures through March 3, 2007. Bicifadine: Our Novel Analgesic Drugs for the treatment of pain, or analgesics, have historically been placed into the following general categories: 8 · narcotics or opioids, e.g., morphine, codeine, Demerol® and Percodan®; · anticonvulsants, antidepressants and other agents used to treat neuropathic pain; and · non-narcotic prostaglandin inhibitors, e.g., aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen and COX-2 inhibitors. While drugs in these categories are regularly used in the treatment of pain, their use has been limited because of various side effect profiles and, in many cases, incomplete efficacy. In addition, administering these drugs for extended time periods has been problematic. Although prostaglandin inhibitors have been used for the treatment of pain, particularly pain associated with inflammation, their efficacy is limited to milder types of pain and they often display undesirable side effects relating to the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Narcotics are also used to treat pain, but tolerance develops rapidly and higher doses often lead to physical dependence and additional side effects, including respiratory depression. Ultram®, marketed by Ortho-McNeil, Inc., was originally thought to be a non-narcotic but its metabolites have been reported to act at certain opiate receptors and have the potential to cause morphine-like psychic and physical dependence. Despite these drawbacks, U.S. sales in 2006 of narcotic and non-narcotic analgesics reached nearly $7.5 billion according to IMS. Furthermore, in September 2004, Merck & Co., or Merck, withdrew Vioxx®, a COX-2 inhibitor, from the market, citing increased risk of stroke and heart attack in extended use. In April 2005, Pfizer withdrew Bextra®, another COX-2 inhibitor, citing increased risk of rare but serious skin reactions. The withdrawal of these drugs has had a significant impact on the treatment of pain and the pain market and, we believe, opened up greater opportunities for bicifadine. The FDA has granted approval for two other classes of compounds for the management of specific types of chronic pain. In the first class, Neurontin®, marketed by Pfizer, is an anticonvulsant whose actions on ion channels in neuronal tissue are likely responsible for its therapeutic effects in a certain type of neuropathic pain (postherpetic neuralgia). Sharing a similar structure with Neurontin is Lyrica®, also marketed by Pfizer, which was approved in December 2004 for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia. In the second class, Cymbalta®, marketed by Eli Lilly and Co., was granted approval in September 2004 for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Cymbalta’s mechanism of action is believed to result from the inhibition of the uptake of serotonin and norepinephrine (SNRI) in nerve cells, properties also possessed by bicifadine. Bicifadine, our product candidate for the treatment of pain, was licensed by us from Wyeth in 1998 and sublicensed to XTL in 2007. We are entitled to up to $126.5 million in milestones and a low double-digit ascending royalty on worldwide net sales, if any. Bicifadine possesses a unique profile of pharmacological activity. Its primary pharmacological action is to enhance and prolong the actions of norepinephrine and serotonin by inhibiting the transport proteins that terminate the physiological actions of the two biogenic amines. Preclinical studies with bicifadine indicate this molecule possesses additional neurochemical properties that may contribute to its analgesic effects. Preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that either one or a combination of these individual actions may account for the analgesic properties of bicifadine. Bicifadine is not a narcotic and, in preclinical studies, has been shown not to act at any opiate receptor. In preclinical studies to date, bicifadine has not demonstrated abuse, addiction or dependence potential, although, in a Phase I clinical trial, the immediate release, or IR, formulation did cause mild and transient euphoric mood in some subjects. However, in a Phase I study in experienced drug users, there was no statistically significant difference between bicifadine and placebo. Four Phase I clinical trials and 14 Phase II clinical trials involving more than 1,000 patients were conducted by Wyeth or DOV with an IR formulation of bicifadine. In five exploratory double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trials of the IR formulation conducted by Wyeth, bicifadine demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in pain versus placebo, in some cases with an outcome suggesting it might be comparable to or better than positive controls such as codeine. 9 In addition to these trials with the IR formulation, we have conducted numerous studies using the sustained release, or SR, formulation, a formulation that permits less frequent daily dosing and improves tolerability. We have completed three placebo-controlled efficacy trials in more than 1,600 patients with acute post-surgical pain and have conducted three Phase III clinical trials of bicifadine in CLBP and one Phase II trial of bicifadine in osteoarthritis, all of which have provided us with a significant amount of data about the efficacy and safety of the drug. Phase III Chronic Pain Trials of Bicifadine in CLBP Study 020 In April 2006, we completed a Phase III, U.S. clinical trial of bicifadine in approximately 600 patients with moderate to severe CLBP, study 020. The clinical trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient, multi-center study assessing the efficacy and tolerability of three dose levels of bicifadine - 200 mg, 300 mg and 400 mg b.i.d. - over a three-month period. The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in pain severity rating as measured by the 100 mm Visual Analog Scale, or VAS, score between baseline and the end of dosing. In this trial, bicifadine did not achieve a statistically significant effect relative to placebo on the primary endpoint of the study (reduction in pain at the end of treatment) at any of the doses tested. Bicifadine was well-tolerated; transient nausea and dizziness were the most common adverse events which occurred in 5% to 18% of patients. Study 021 Our second Phase III trial - study 021 - of bicifadine in CLBP analyzed only patients with more severe CLBP, accompanied by sciatica and/or substantial functional disability, and compared only two dosing arms, 200 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine versus placebo. In October 2006, once study 021 had enrolled more than one half of the intended patients, we unblinded the results of an interim analysis. In this trial, similar to study 020, bicifadine did not achieve a statistically significant effect relative to placebo on the primary endpoint of the study and we therefore stopped patient dosing in this trial before completing the intended enrollment. Study 022 In May 2006 we completed enrollment in our Phase III open-label, long-term safety trial of bicifadine - study 022 - and in October 2006 discontinued dosing of patients. The primary objective of this clinical trial was to evaluate the safety of bicifadine for up to one year in patients with CLBP. Over 500 patients were dosed with at least 200 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine for at least six months and over 100 patients for at least one year. There were no deaths in the more than 3,000 patients who have received bicifadine in the clinical trial program. Further, there are no apparent safety risks in respect to cardiovascular safety and liver function, organ systems that are most commonly the cause of drug related safety concerns. Phase II Trial in Osteoarthritis In November 2006, we completed a Phase II trial of bicifadine in patients with osteoarthritis. This study was a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover trial designed to assess the efficacy, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of bicifadine alone and in combination with ibuprofen. Of the 33 patients who completed the trial, each patient received one week of dosing for each of the following four treatment regimens: bicifadine, ibuprofen, bicifadine plus ibuprofen and placebo. The mean improvement scores on the primary efficacy endpoint (WOMAC total score) for the patients taking a combination of bicifadine plus ibuprofen were clinically and statistically superior to the improvement scores seen in the placebo (p<0.0005), and bicifadine (p<0.002) groups. The improvement seen after only one week of dosing with bicifadine plus ibuprofen relative to placebo is appreciably larger than in many previously-reported placebo-controlled trials for COX-2 inhibitors or other NSAIDs in which dosing lasted for up to three months. This significant and substantial improvement in pain reduction after only one week represents an unexpected finding using bicifadine and an NSAID, in this case ibuprofen. The marked benefits seen with concurrent dosing of bicifadine plus ibuprofen were not due to a pharmacokinetic interaction between the two drugs since neither bicifadine nor ibuprofen appreciably altered the blood levels of the other drug. 10 Completed Acute Pain Trials of Bicifadine In August 2002, we completed a Phase II clinical trial in the U.S. involving 750 patients in the treatment of moderate to severe post-surgical dental pain. This Phase II trial was a single-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled, study that evaluated three controlled release doses of bicifadine and one dose of codeine compared to placebo. Bicifadine produced a highly statistically significant, dose-related reduction in pain compared to placebo at each of the two higher doses. The efficacy of bicifadine was at least equivalent to codeine at all three doses. The trial demonstrated bicifadine to be safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events. Both codeine and the two higher doses of bicifadine produced significantly more adverse events than placebo, with the bicifadine 400 mg and 600 mg doses producing 22 percent and 37 percent, respectively, versus 11 percent for placebo. The most frequently reported adverse events were nausea and vomiting. In September 2003, we completed a 540-patient, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III clinical trial to compare three doses of bicifadine and one dose of tramadol to placebo in a moderate to severe post-surgical dental pain model. Bicifadine, in a dose-dependent fashion, produced a highly statistically significant reduction in pain compared to placebo, as did the single-dose level of tramadol. Statistically significant increases in analgesia were measured as early as one hour after administration and analgesia was sustained for the balance of the six-hour measurement period. The maximal efficacy of bicifadine was statistically indistinguishable from tramadol. Both bicifadine and tramadol were safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events. In September 2005, we completed a Phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient, multi-center clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of three dose levels of bicifadine in patients with moderate to severe acute pain following bunionectomy surgery for a five-day period incorporating tramadol as an active control. The bunionectomy Phase III trial enrolled 325 patients at five sites in the U.S. The design and analysis of the study compared 200 mg and 400 mg t.i.d. of bicifadine to placebo with 100 mg t.i.d. of tramadol as an active control. Statistically significant increases in analgesia were measured as early as 30 minutes after administration and these effects were sustained for the balance of the eight-hour measurement period. The maximal efficacy of bicifadine was statistically indistinguishable from tramadol. While both bicifadine and tramadol were safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events, the high level of “rescue” analgesic medication used in both the placebo and active drug groups confounded an assessment of the analgesic actions of bicifadine or tramadol under repeat dosing conditions, which are an FDA requirement. XTL Development Plan XTL has stated that it intends to develop bicifadine for the treatment of neuropathic pain - a chronic condition resulting from damage to peripheral nerves. Due to the highly competitive nature of the market for acute pain drugs, and the FDA requirement to complete two repeat-dosing clinical trials in two different acute pain indications, no further studies in acute pain are planned. XTL intends to initiate a Phase IIb clinical trial with bicifadine in 2007. DOV 21,947: Our Triple Reuptake Inhibitor for Depression Depression is a disorder in which the affected person experiences a mental state of sadness, despair, discouragement and hopelessness. Other symptoms may include apathy, withdrawal from social contact, an inability to experience pleasure, changes in appetite and sleep patterns, low energy levels, difficulty concentrating and thoughts of suicide. Neurotransmitters regulate numerous functions in the CNS, and imbalances in them have been linked to a number of psychiatric disorders, including depression. The actions of these neurotransmitters are terminated by specific transport proteins that remove them from synapses in the brain. Antidepressants are thought to produce their therapeutic effects by inhibiting the uptake activity of one or more of these transport proteins, effectively increasing the concentration and duration of action of these neurotransmitters at their receptors. 11 The emergence of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, starting with Prozac® in January 1988, followed by Zoloft® in February 1992 and Paxil® in January 1993, has had a dramatic impact on the antidepressant market. According to Mattson Jack (2006), the lifetime prevalence of major depressive disorder exceeds 22 million in the United States and 12 million suffer from less severe forms of depression. The National Institute of Mental Health also indicated that in 2006 over 19 million Americans suffered from a debilitating anxiety disorder. In 2005, the branded worldwide market for depression therapeutics was in excess of $12 billion (EvaluatePharma.com). Despite this widespread commercial success, SSRIs suffer from the following limitations: · 30-40 percent of patients do not experience an adequate therapeutic response to a given drug; · three or more weeks of therapy are often required before meaningful improvement is observed; and · side effects such as nervousness, agitation, insomnia and sexual dysfunction. Dual uptake inhibitors, referred to as SNRIs, like Effexor®, launched in 1994, and Cymbalta®, launched in August 2004, block the uptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine. In vitro studies have demonstrated that both drugs are appreciably more potent in blocking serotonin compared to norepinephrine uptake. While these drugs may be more effective than SSRIs in some patients, SNRIs still take three or more weeks of therapy before a meaningful improvement is observed. In addition, SNRIs have their own unique set of side effects, including nausea, headache, sleepiness, dry mouth, sexual dysfunction and dizziness. Both preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that a drug inhibiting uptake of all three, serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, may produce a faster onset of action or provide greater efficacy than traditional antidepressants. We believe that such a ‘broad spectrum’ antidepressant could represent a breakthrough in the treatment of depression. DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 are TRIs affecting the neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine. In preclinical studies, DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 were shown to inhibit the uptake of all three neurotransmitters. In animal models highly predictive of antidepressant action, DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 were more potent than Tofranil®, an SNRI, and the SSRIs Prozac and Celexa. Because of their ability to inhibit the uptake of all three neurotransmitters implicated in depression, we believe DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 may be more effective and have a more rapid onset than other antidepressants. In addition, at doses similar to those active in models predictive of antidepressant action, DOV 21,947 produced a significant weight loss in two animal models of diet-induced obesity. Rodent models of diet-induced obesity are often used to predict the effectiveness of drugs to produce weight loss in obese individuals. We have completed several Phase I studies in normal volunteers and a Phase II efficacy trial of DOV 216,303 in patients with major depressive disorder. The clinical trial was a randomized, multi-center, double-blind, safety, efficacy and tolerability study with 67 patients and compared 50 mg b.i.d. of DOV 216,303 to 20 mg b.i.d. of citalopram, an SSRI. Patients who completed two weeks of treatment in both the DOV 216,303 and citalopram groups demonstrated reductions from baseline (p<0.0001) in the primary outcome measure, the total Hamilton Depression , or HAM-D, scores. This study also showed that DOV 216,303 was generally well-tolerated, with no serious adverse events occurring. There are no ongoing clinical studies of DOV 216,303 and none are planned for 2007. Seven phase I studies of DOV 21,947 have been completed and we intend to initiate a Phase II double-blind clinical trial of DOV 21,947 versus placebo in depressed outpatients in July of 2007. DOV 21,947 is the (+)-enantiomer of DOV 216,303. In December 2005 we dosed the initial set of subjects in a second Phase Ib clinical trial of DOV 21,947. At the highest dose levels explored - substantially above what is projected to be the therapeutic range - rashes were noted in some subjects. 12 DOV 102,677: Our TRI for Alcohol Abuse & Alcoholism Alcoholism, also known as alcohol dependence, is a disease with symptoms including: · craving: a strong need or compulsion to drink; · loss of control: the inability to limit one’s drinking on any given occasion; · physical dependence: withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea, sweating, shakiness and anxiety, occur when alcohol use is stopped after a period of heavy drinking; and · tolerance: the need to drink greater amounts of alcohol in order to ‘get high.’ The most recent alcohol use and abuse study conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, “The 2001 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse”, estimates that approximately 14 million Americans meet the diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse or alcoholism. Yet, this level of incidence is met by a general lack of substantially effective treatments for alcohol abuse. DOV 102,677 is a TRI with preferential action on the dopamine transporter protein and is related to DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303. In a Phase Ia clinical trial, DOV 102,677 was shown to be safe and well-tolerated at single doses that are less than or equal to 150 mg. At higher doses, abnormal color vision, which was both transient and reversible, was observed in the majority of subjects. Results of this Phase Ia trial and compelling data from animal models of alcohol abuse have led us to identify DOV 102,677 as a development candidate to treat alcohol abuse and alcoholism rather than depression. We may initiate a Phase Ib repeat-dose clinical trial in normal volunteers for DOV 102,677 in late 2007 if appropriate funding is available. Preclinical Discovery and Development Programs Our discovery program remains focused on GABAA receptor modulators and reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of CNS disorders. Reuptake Inhibitor Platform Our reuptake inhibitor platforms, including TRIs (triple reuptake inhibitors), NEDs (norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), SADs (serotonin and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), and SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitiors) can be tailored to create compounds that are able to treat a wide variety of neuropsychiatric disorders ranging from depression and attention deficit disorder to pain and obesity. This tailoring process produces new chemical entities with varying potencies at two (in the case of NEDs, SADs, and SNRIs) or three (in the case of TRIs) transport proteins. For example, we believe NEDs (with relative potencies to inhibit norepinephrine and dopamine uptake ranging from about 1:1 to 1:10) may offer certain advantages over currently prescribed medications for the treatment of attention deficit disorder. We have reuptake inhibitors from each of these classes in various stages of preclinical development. In addition, our reuptake inhibitor discovery program includes work to identify second generation bicifadine-like compounds. We intend to file an IND for one of our preclinical uptake inhibitors in early 2008 if we obtain satisfactory results from ongoing preclinical toxicology testing. GABA Modulator Platform GABAA receptors are classified into biochemically, pharmacologically and functionally distinct receptor subtypes that influence different behaviors such as anxiety, sedation and amnesia. We believe that compounds that selectively act on specific GABAA receptor subtypes produce the desired therapeutic effects in the absence of the undesirable effects associated with traditional GABA modulators such as BDZs. For example, compounds acting at one GABAA receptor subtype may reduce anxiety without sedation, while compounds acting at another GABAA receptor subtype may produce sedation without memory impairment, or other effects associated with acting at other subtypes. 13 Our internal discovery effort with GABAA receptor modulators has yielded a series of compounds we are currently evaluating. These new chemical entities, currently in the lead optimization phase, are significantly more potent than ocinaplon, our previous anti-anxiety product candidate, and we have prioritized our preclinical pipeline and 2007 activities accordingly. These compounds appear to function as partial positive allosteric modulators at specific GABAA receptor subtypes that may be involved in the treatment of various anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, or GAD, and panic disorder. In August 2005, we suspended further dosing in the ongoing Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon following the occurrence of enzyme elevations in liver function tests, or LFTs, for one subject. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in the Phase III trial. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was approximately eight percent in the ocinaplon-treated subjects and zero percent in the placebo-controlled subjects. Based upon the data, in October 2005 we discontinued the development of ocinaplon for GAD. Cardiovascular Disorders Chronic stable angina, or angina pectoris, refers to recurring severe constricting pain in the chest due to inadequate blood supply to the heart caused by heart disease. Angina attacks are more likely to occur during the morning and afternoon hours. Likewise, hypertension is greater in the morning hours. According to the 2002 practice guidelines update for the management of patients with chronic stable angina, published by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine, the number of patients in the U.S. with stable angina was estimated at 16.5 million. According to Decision Resources, high blood pressure or hypertension was estimated to affect more than 50 million people in the U.S. Diltiazem belongs to a well-known class of drugs called calcium channel blockers. Calcium channel blockers remain a standard of care in the treatment of chronic stable angina and hypertension and continue to be highly endorsed by the medical community. Although comparative studies have demonstrated equivalent anti-angina effects for many marketed calcium channel blockers, a lower incidence of side effects with diltiazem was often reported in these studies. According to IMS figures for 2004, sales of diltiazem products in the U.S. totaled $799 million. In an effort to provide both therapeutic blood levels of diltiazem for longer periods of time and improved patient compliance, several slow or extended release preparations of diltiazem have been developed for the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina. However, these commercially available, once-daily, extended release formulations produce only a partial reduction of chronic stable angina. According to published studies, currently marketed diltiazem products such as Tiazac®, Cardizem® and Dilacor XR® only reduce the number of angina attacks by approximately 50-60 percent when given at FDA-approved therapeutic doses. We believe incomplete reduction in angina demonstrated by current treatments may be the result of inadequate blood levels of the drug in the morning hours, when approximately half of all angina attacks occur. Experts in chronic stable angina have confirmed their dissatisfaction with the ability of current extended release products to adequately treat many of their patients on a once-a-day basis. DOV Diltiazem, our proprietary formulation of diltiazem, is our product candidate for the treatment of angina and hypertension. DOV diltiazem combines an immediate release component with a controlled release component in order to provide prompt and improved blood levels throughout the day compared to currently marketed diltiazem products. We believe that DOV diltiazem will reduce morning angina attacks to a significantly greater extent than commercially available products because of its combination of immediate and extended release components. Data from three Phase I trials indicate that our patented formulation produces clinically relevant blood levels within 30 minutes of administration and results in higher blood levels in the morning than Tiazac. In 2004 and 2006, we reached agreement with the FDA’s Cardio-Renal Division on the scope and design of the clinical trials required for submission of an NDA for DOV diltiazem. The FDA agreed that no additional preclinical or toxicology studies would be required for the NDA submission. We are currently seeking a strategic relationship to advance DOV diltiazem into Phase III clinical development and commercialization and thus intend that further clinical development of DOV diltiazem be conducted by a licensee of this product, assuming we are able to secure attractive license terms. 14 Collaborations and Licensing Agreements Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. In June 1998, we sublicensed indiplon to Neurocrine on an exclusive, worldwide basis for ten years or, if later, the expiration of any patent covering either the compound or the marketed product, currently 2023. At the end of the term, Neurocrine will be deemed to have a fully-paid, royalty-free license to the compound and the marketed product. During the term of the agreement, we are entitled to receive a royalty equal to 3.5 percent of net sales for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents covering indiplon in such country and a period of the first ten years post launch in a given market, if any, and additional net milestone payments of $1.5 million upon FDA approval. As noted below, the royalty term has been expanded to include Neurocrine patents covering indiplon. During 2004, we received $2.0 million from Neurocrine for the milestone due upon NDA filing. Neurocrine is responsible for the research, development and commercialization of indiplon. We have the right to terminate our agreement with Neurocrine, with regard to the entire territory, if Neurocrine terminates the research and development program or halts the research and development program for six months or longer within the U.S., other than for reasons relating to regulatory constraints. Likewise, if Neurocrine halts, for six months or longer, or terminates the research and development program in any other country, we have the right to terminate the agreement with respect to that country. If we terminate the agreement due to an uncured breach by Neurocrine, it must transfer to us all information and know-how related to indiplon or the marketed product, and all governmental filings and approvals. In February 2004, we reorganized our sublicense agreement with Neurocrine in respect to indiplon. As part of the reorganization, Neurocrine acquired Wyeth’s interest under the license covering indiplon entered into between Wyeth and DOV in 1998. The restated sublicense agreement with Neurocrine expands the royalty term to include the life of Neurocrine patents as well as Wyeth patents covering indiplon. The revised agreement allows Neurocrine to pay to us royalty payments that are 3.5 percent of net sales, and milestone payments net of those amounts that would be owed by DOV to Wyeth. In addition, the first milestone payment to Wyeth of $2.5 million upon an NDA was changed to $1.0 million upon an NDA filing and $1.5 million upon an NDA approval. Thus, the net milestones payable to DOV is $2.0 million upon an NDA filing (which was paid in December 2004) and $1.5 million upon an NDA approval. XTL Development, Inc. On January 15, 2007, we entered into an agreement with XTL in which we granted XTL the exclusive right to develop products incorporating bicifadine for the treatment of human diseases, disorders and conditions, except for treatment of symptoms in certain areas of women’s health. We received an up-front payment of $6.5 million, of which $5.0 million was paid to Wyeth as a result of the acceleration of a milestone payable pursuant to our agreement with Wyeth. We also paid to Elan $500,000 pursuant to our agreement with them. Additionally, XTL was required to make a $1.0 million payment to DOV within 30 days if we successfully transferred to XTL an existing investigational new drug application and certain program documentation relating to bicifadine. Such transfers were recently completed and XTL made such payment to us in February 2007. Total up-front and milestone payments by XTL under the agreement could exceed $130.0 million if all milestones are achieved, with escalating low double-digit royalties on annual net sales of bicifadine. At its election, XTL may make certain non-royalty payments, including milestone payments, to us in shares of freely tradeable stock of XTL’s parent company, XTL Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. XTL will fund future research, development, manufacturing and commercialization costs of bicifadine. 15 Merck & Co. On August 5, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Merck for the worldwide development and commercialization of DOV 21,947 for all therapeutic indications and of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, anxiety and addiction. Additionally, Merck obtained rights of first offer and refusal regarding a licensing agreement for DOV 102,677 under certain circumstances and for additional consideration. Merck assumed financial responsibility for development and commercialization of a product containing at least one of the licensed compounds. The parties agreed to work together to clinically develop licensed product and we have reserved the right to co-promote the sales of product in the U.S. to psychiatrists and other specialists who treat depression. The license agreement was terminated by the parties effective December 6, 2006. As a result of this termination, we regained all rights to the compounds, including the use of results of studies performed by Merck. There were no payments due to or from Merck upon this termination. Under the agreement, we received a $35.0 million up-front licensing payment. In addition, we could have received as much as $300.0 million for achieving certain clinical development and regulatory milestones for multiple territories and approval of two indications, and up to $120.0 million upon achievement of certain sales thresholds. Merck assumed responsibility for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of DOV 21,947 and agreed to pay us royalties on worldwide sales, if any, which increased based upon certain sales thresholds. In August 2005, we announced that our license agreement with Merck for DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 had been amended. The milestones, royalties and business terms originally established in the August 2004 license agreement were retained in full along with DOV’s co-promote rights. The amendment transferred to us from Merck certain development contemplated by the license agreement. It also permitted expansion of the parties’ relationship to include an additional TRI from the DOV preclinical pipeline for inclusion in the original license agreement with no additional up-front payment. If the DOV studies for DOV 21,947 were successful, we may have been reimbursed by Merck for pre-agreed expenses and may have received a success premium. Subsequently, we may have received payment for achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones pursuant to the existing agreement. Both parties retained certain termination rights. Elan Corporation, plc and Elan International Services, Ltd. In January 1999, Elan and we established a joint venture and formed DOV (Bermuda), Ltd., or DOV Bermuda, a holding company, and Nascime Limited, or Nascime, an operating company, to develop controlled release formulations of bicifadine for the treatment of pain and ocinaplon for the treatment of anxiety disorders and epilepsy. Pursuant to the original agreements, through December 31, 2002, Elan and we funded the joint venture in proportion to our equity interests in the venture, 19.9 percent and 80.1 percent, respectively. Effective January 1, 2003, Elan no longer funded its pro rata portion of the joint venture's expenses and, after funding ours and Elan’s portion of the joint venture's expenses for the first and second quarters of 2003, our equity ownership in the joint venture increased to 83.0 percent from 80.1 percent. On October 21, 2003, we entered into an agreement with Elan and certain of Elan’s affiliates to terminate the joint venture and acquire 100 percent ownership of Nascime, the joint venture’s operating company. In connection with this agreement, among other things, Elan and we agreed to eliminate all material consent rights found in the 1999 stock purchase and license agreements. The termination agreement ended Elan’s involvement in the nearly five-year joint venture established to develop controlled release formulations of bicifadine and ocinaplon. Pursuant to the termination agreement, we paid $5.0 million to a subsidiary of Elan in respect of its 17 percent equity stake in the joint venture. We agreed to indemnify Elan and its affiliates, subject to certain limitations, for claims arising from the past, present and any future activities of the joint venture companies, including activities related to the conduct of the joint venture's clinical trials. Each party waived any rights and released the other parties from any claims arising under certain of the principal joint venture agreements. Elan granted to Nascime, now wholly owned by us, a new non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide license to make and sell the two product candidates in controlled release formulations using the Elan intellectual property licensed to the joint venture, including that developed during the venture. In connection with the license grant, Elan will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $3.0 million when the products are licensed or come to market, of which $500,000 was paid in January 2007 as a result of the sublicense agreement with XTL. In 2006, we transferred the intellectual property held by Nascime to us and dissolved Nascime. 16 Biovail Laboratories Incorporated and Biovail In January 2001, we entered into a license, research and development agreement with Biovail to develop, manufacture and market DOV diltiazem. Biovail’s license to use DOV diltiazem was exclusive and worldwide in scope. In March 2003, following Biovail’s receipt of marketing authorization for Cardizem LA, we and Biovail agreed to terminate the license agreement. The separation agreement provided for the return to us of the patent license covering DOV diltiazem, a $1.0 million payment by us to Biovail and contingent payments by us to Biovail of $3.0 million upon issuance of marketing authorization for the drug and up to $7.5 million based upon sales, if any. We and Biovail have delivered mutual releases relating to the license agreement. Market Exclusivity, Patent Protection and Intellectual Property We believe that establishing and maintaining market exclusivity for our product candidates is critical to our long-term success. We utilize a number of methods to establish and maintain market exclusivity, including taking advantage of statutory market exclusivity provisions, seeking patent protection for our product candidates and otherwise protecting our intellectual property. The Hatch-Waxman Act Under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or Hatch-Waxman Act, newly approved drugs and indications benefit from a statutory period of marketing exclusivity. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the FDA provides marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval for a particular new drug by prohibiting the filing of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA, by a generic competitor for up to five years after the drug is first approved. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for a new indication for an existing drug. This market exclusivity is provided even in the absence of patent protection for the approved drug. If the drug is also claimed in a patent, a third party may file an ANDA four years after the drug is first approved, provided that the third party certifies that the applicable patent is invalid or not infringed. Because they appear to be compounds with new active ingredients, we believe ocinaplon, bicifadine and DOV 216,303 will each be eligible for the five-year exclusivity provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act if they are the first approved drugs containing their active compounds. Since certain patents relating to bicifadine and ocinaplon have expired, in the absence of new patent protection based on patent applications currently being pursued by DOV, these market exclusivity provisions may be of particular importance to the success of these compounds if they are approved by the FDA. The Hatch-Waxman Act also permits an extension of up to five years of the term of a patent for new approved products to compensate for patent term lost during the drug development and FDA regulatory review process if the applicant can show that research and development has been sufficiently continuous during the FDA review process. Only one patent applicable to any approved drug is eligible for extension under these provisions. In addition, this extension must be applied for after NDA approval of the new drug covered by the patent and before expiration of the patent. We will review at the time patent term extensions for some of our current patents under the Hatch-Waxman Act to add patent life beyond the expiration date. Since patent term extensions for patent term lost require prior NDA approval of the product, our prospective eligibility for extensions is subject to the expected length of clinical trials, patent life and factors involved in the filing and approval of an NDA. 17 Patents and Intellectual Property Protection We seek to protect our rights in the compounds, formulations, processes, therapeutic uses, technologies and other valuable intellectual property invented, developed, licensed or used by us through a number of methods, including the use of patents, patent extensions, license agreements and confidentiality agreements. We have or have licensed from others 12 issued U.S. patents that are in force. In 2006, a U.S. patent was awarded to DOV covering a novel polymorphic form of bicifadine. Additional U.S. patent applications were filed in 2006 which claim compositions and methods for treating pain using this novel polymorphic form of bicifadine. In 2002, 2003 and 2005, we filed U.S. patent applications claiming novel sustained release formulations of bicifadine, methods for sustained release delivery of bicifadine to treat pain, and therapeutic methods employing bicifadine to treat chronic pain (including chronic low back pain and other specific, chronic pain disorders). In 2005, we filed a U.S. provisional application directed to therapeutic uses, compositions and methods employing bicifadine to treat neuropathic disorders, including neuropathic pain. This application was perfected in 2006 as regular U.S. utility and PCT patent applications. Also in 2005, we filed two U.S. provisional applications directed to novel synthetic methods and intermediates for the production of bicifadine and related compounds, and these applications were consolidated and perfected in 2006 as U.S. regular utility and PCT patent applications. In 2004, we filed a U.S. provisional patent application directed to the use of bicifadine for controlling fever and menopausal symptoms, including hot flashes. This application was perfected in 2005 as regular U.S. utility and PCT patent applications. In 2005, we filed a U.S. provisional patent application directed to therapeutic uses, compositions and methods employing bicifadine to treat urological disorders, including urinary incontinence. This application was perfected in 2006 as U.S. regular utility and PCT patent applications. DOV also retains U.S. patent rights protecting the use of bicifadine and DOV 216,303 for the treatment of addictive disorders through December 2018. Effective January 15, 2007, XTL has undertaken all patent and intellectual property prosecution relating to bicifadine at XTL’s expense. A composition of matter patent for indiplon, patent no. 6,399,621, which falls under our license agreement and our sublicense to Neurocrine, was issued to a former Wyeth subsidiary, American Cyanamid, in June 2002 and is due to expire in August 2020. A further composition of matter patent covering indiplon, patent no. 6,544,999, was issued to Neurocrine in April 2003 and is due to expire in October 2020. A further composition of matter patent covering a novel polymorphic form (different crystal structure) of indiplon, patent no. 6,903,106 was issued in June 2005 and is due to expire in 2023. In 2006, we filed a U.S. provisional patent application directed to novel salts and co-crystals of pyrazolopyrimidines, including indiplon and ocinaplon, which patent application also presents claims to methods and compositions for producing salts and co-crystals of pyrazolopyrimidines. In December 2000, a patent issued covering the compound formulation of DOV diltiazem. This patent is due to expire in April 2018. In April 2002, a U.S. patent was issued claiming the composition of matter, use and methods of treatment and manufacture for DOV 21,947, a triple uptake inhibitor under development for the treatment of depression. This patent is due to expire in January 2021. In 2006 a US continuation patent issued to DOV covering methods for treating anxiety, eating disorders including excessive appetite and obesity, and other conditions using DOV 21,947. We currently have pending US utility and PCT patent applications claiming novel polymorphic forms of DOV 21,947, as well as related compositions and treatment methods employing these novel polymorphic forms of DOV 21,947. 18 Between 2003 and 2006, five patents have issued covering the composition of matter, uses and methods of manufacture of DOV 102,677, our candidate for the treatment of indications including alcohol abuse, alcoholism, Parkinson’s disease, restless leg syndrome, and attention deficit disorder. This patent will expire in 2023. In 2006, we received a Notice of Allowance on a U.S. patent directed to methods for production of DOV 102,677, which patent is scheduled to issue in the near future. In addition to protecting our compounds described above, we intend to supplement our current patents with additional patent applications covering new compositions of matter, uses, methods of manufacture and formulations, as appropriate. Once a basic product patent expires, we may be able to derive additional commercial exclusivity and benefits, including from: · later-granted patents on processes or intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of the product; · patents directed to additional therapeutic uses; and · patents directed to related compositions and improved clinical formulations. In-Licenses Wyeth. In May 1998, we licensed from Wyeth, on an exclusive, worldwide basis, indiplon, bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 for any indication, including insomnia, pain, anxiety and depression. We have the right to develop and commercialize these compounds, including the right to grant sublicenses to third parties, subject to Wyeth's right of first refusal. In February, 2004, we reorganized our exclusive license agreement with Wyeth and, in December 2006, we entered into three separate and distinct license agreements with Wyeth that together modified the terms of the existing licenses. Under the amended licensing arrangements, we gained an exclusive license to certain additional Wyeth intellectual property to allow us to develop products incorporating the three compounds for the treatment of human diseases, disorders and conditions except for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in certain areas of women’s health. We granted to Wyeth an exclusive license to certain DOV intellectual property to allow Wyeth to develop products incorporating the three compounds for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in those areas of women’s health, provided that the parties agreed to negotiate to jointly develop and commercialize any such products. Pursuant to the agreements, we are obligated to pay Wyeth royalties of 3.5 percent of net sales for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and 5.0 percent of net sales for bicifadine, and milestones of $2.5 million each for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and $5.0 million for bicifadine upon NDA filing, and $4.5 million each for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 upon a NDA approval. The royalty rate for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 will increase by 0.5 percent should we partner or sublicense that compound. In addition, should we partner or sublicense a compound, the next milestone payable to Wyeth for that compound will be accelerated to become due upon partnering. Upon sublicensing bicifadine to XTL in January 2007 and DOV 216,303 to Merck in August 2004, we have paid the $5.0 million and $2.5 million due upon the acceleration of the milestones due upon a NDA filing for bicifadine and DOV 216,303, respectively. In addition, we are obligated to pay milestones of $2.25 million upon NDA (or equivalent) approval in the United States, Europe or Japan for any product containing DOV 21,947 or DOV 102,677, but only if such milestone becomes payable prior to payment of the $4.5 million milestone payable on an NDA (or equivalent) approval for DOV 216,303. Any milestone payments made with respect to DOV 21,947 or DOV 102,677 reduce, dollar-for-dollar, DOV's $4.5 million milestone obligation for DOV 216,303. 19 As part of the February 2004 reorganization, Neurocrine acquired Wyeth’s interest under the license covering indiplon, with the result that the 2.5 percent royalty payable by us to Wyeth and the $2.5 million in milestones was eliminated. Accordingly, the reorganization with Neurocrine allows Neurocrine to pay to us royalty and milestone payments net of those that would be owed by us to Wyeth, or 3.5 percent on worldwide net sales, if any, and a $1.5 million milestone upon NDA approval. If Wyeth terminates a license upon an uncured breach by us, and by Neurocrine under the standby license, we must transfer to Wyeth all information, data and know-how relating to the products and any government authorizations, in addition to our rights derived from our sublicensees with regard to the products. The agreements expire as to each compound for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents in such country and a period of ten years following the launch of each compound in each country. Upon such expiration, with respect to each country we will have a fully paid, royalty-free license with the right to make, use or sell the compounds without any further monetary obligation to Wyeth. Elan. On October 21, 2003, in connection with termination of the joint venture with Elan, Elan granted to Nascime Limited, our former joint venture operating company, now wholly owned by us, a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide license to make and sell controlled release formulations of ocinaplon and bicifadine using the Elan intellectual property licensed to the joint venture, including that developed during the venture. We are required to pay Elan milestones, amounting to $1.0 million for ocinaplon and $0.5 million for bicifadine upon license of the products to a third party for development or commercialization, and additional equal amounts upon commercial launch, or an aggregate of $3.0 million upon commercial launch of both products if we do not license the products to a third party. The Elan intellectual property under license includes certain Elan know-how and all Elan patents owned, licensed or controlled by Elan subsequent to the license agreement. In 2006, we transferred the intellectual property held by Nascime to us and dissolved Nascime. Manufacturing We have and will continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We also intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities for large-scale commercialization. In this regard, we have and will continue to engage those contract manufacturers who have the capability to manufacture drug products in amounts required for commercialization. Marketing and Sales We have no marketing, sales or distribution capabilities. We will need to either acquire or internally develop sales and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us, in order to commercialize any of our product candidates. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and corresponding regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and the efficacy of a drug product. In the U.S., drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before they can begin clinical trials in the U.S. An IND becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless the FDA objects to it. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time-consuming and costly three-phase process. 20 Phase I Refers typically to closely-monitored clinical trials and includes the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into human patients or normal volunteer subjects. Phase I clinical trials are designed to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of a drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing drug doses and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. Phase I trials also include the study of structure-activity relationships and mechanism of action in humans, as well as studies in which investigational drugs are used as research tools to explore biological phenomena or disease processes. During Phase I clinical trials, sufficient information about a drug’s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects should be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled, scientifically valid, Phase II studies. The total number of subjects and patients included in Phase I clinical trials varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80. Phase II Refers to controlled clinical trials conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of a drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition under study and to determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. These clinical trials are typically well controlled, closely monitored and conducted in a relatively small number of patients, usually involving no more than several hundred patients. Phase III Refers to expanded controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials, also involving patients with the disease or condition under study. These clinical trials are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of a drug has been obtained. They are intended to gather additional information about the effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide an adequate basis for physician labeling. Phase III trials usually include from several hundred to several thousand patients. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the U.S. and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date we have conducted certain of our clinical trials outside the U.S., where they are monitored by the cognizant national regulatory agencies. All clinical trial test design and results, whether the trial is conducted in the U.S. or abroad, are subject to review by the FDA following IND or NDA filings. Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA, in the form of a NDA, for approval to commence commercial sales. In response, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if the FDA determines that the application does not meet regulatory approval criteria. This is the registration process. FDA approval may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA may prevent a drug developer from marketing a product under a label for its desired indications, which may impair commercialization of the product. Similar regulatory procedures must also be complied with in countries outside the U.S. If the FDA approves the NDA, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe in the U.S. After approval, the drug developer must submit periodic reports to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may request or require additional trials to evaluate any adverse reactions or long-term effects. In addition to studies requested by the FDA after approval, a drug developer may conduct other trials and studies to explore use of the approved compound for treatment of new indications. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to broaden the application and use of the drug and its acceptance in the medical community. 21 We will have to complete an approval process, similar to the U.S. approval process, in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the U.S. We face the risk that the resulting prices would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our collaborators. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and marked by a number of established, large pharmaceutical companies, as well as smaller emerging companies, whose activities are directly focused on our target markets and areas of expertise. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, managerial and technical resources and have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing drugs, all of which put us at a competitive disadvantage. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing and development of our product candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our drug candidates. Furthermore, new developments occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We have four product candidates undergoing DOV-driven or collaborative clinical development addressing four different and substantial pharmaceutical markets. Competition in these markets includes the following drugs and pharmaceutical companies: Insomnia Market Indiplon would compete in the sedative and hypnotic market. Ambien® , Sonata ® , Lunesta ® , and Rozerem® are already marketed for the treatment of insomnia by Sanofi-Aventis, King Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Sepracor, Inc., and Takeda Pharmaceutical Company, respectively. Recently, in anticipation of the near-term generic entrant of Ambien ® or zoplidem, Sanofi-Aventis launched a controlled-release formulation of Ambien ® called Ambien CR ® . H. Lundbeck A/S and Merck are developing gaboxadol, a GABA agonist, for sleep disorders, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials. Somaxon Pharmaceuticals is developing doxepine, a H1 antagonist, for the treatment of insomnia, which is currently in Phase III clinical trials. Pain Market Bicifadine would compete in the analgesic market. The two principal classes of pain treatments, as defined by IMS, are the antiarthritic class and the analgesic class. Due to the incidence and prevalence of pain, both classes have a very large volume in sales and in total prescriptions. Sales of antiarthritics in 2005 were $7.9 billion which represents a one year growth decrease of 19.1 percent in value due to the withdrawal of additional COX-2 inhibitors (for example, Celebrex and Bextra, both marketed by Pfizer). This has led other antiarthritics, such as Mobic®, marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim, to capture a significant share of this class. In 2005, Mobic sales more than doubled with total sales of $1 billion. Sales of the analgesic class, as defined by IMS, reached $10.5 billion in 2005 which represented a flat annual growth rate and an increase of approximately five percent in total prescriptions. This class is dominated by narcotics. Sales of longer acting non-injectable narcotics that are actively marketed such as Actiq® by Cephalon, Inc., Avinza® by Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Kadian® by Alpharma, Inc., continue to show strong growth in sales and prescriptions. Non-narcotics, such as the synthetic non-narcotic subclass as defined by IMS, demonstrated positive growth in total prescriptions, but negative growth in 2005 sales because of generic erosion in price. Branded synthetic non-narcotic products such as Ultram® and Ultracet®, both marketed by Johnson & Johnson, enjoyed very strong sales when heavily promoted, but are now off-patent and are demonstrating significant sales declines. 22 Depression Market DOV 21,947 and 216,303 would compete in the antidepressant market, which is dominated by SSRIs and SNRIs that comprise nearly 80 percent of the antidepressant market. Significant SSRI market positions are held by Zoloft, marketed by Pfizer, Celexa and Lexapro®, marketed by Forest Laboratories, Inc., and Paxil, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline. SNRI market leaders include Effexor, marketed by Wyeth, and Cymbalta, marketed by Eli Lilly and Co., which is also co-promoted for neuropathic pain. In 2005 IMS estimated that the SSRI and SNRI markets combined totaled $10.2 billion. Alcohol Abuse DOV 102,677 would compete in the alcohol abuse market. Both Vivitrol, approved in April 2006 and marketed by Cephalon and Alkermes and Campral®, marketed by Forest, compete in the alcohol abuse market. Alcohol abuse is an underserved space, met by a general lack of effective treatments. The most recent alcohol use and abuse study conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, “The 2001 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse”, estimates that approximately 14 million Americans meet the diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse or alcoholism. Employees As of March 19, 2007, we had 41 full-time employees, 15 of which hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe the relationship with our employees is good. Our Scientific Advisory Board Our scientific advisory board, or SAB, advises us with respect to our product development strategy as well as the scientific and business merits of licensing opportunities and acquisition of compounds and the availability of opportunities for collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies. The SAB consists of a group of highly regarded and experienced scientists and clinicians. We have, in the past, compensated certain SAB members with stock options pursuant to our 2000 stock option and grant plan, and expenses for attendance at the annual meeting. Certain of the SAB members receive compensation for consulting services. The current SAB members are: Robert Cancro, M.D. is the chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board and one of our co-founders. From 1976 until his retirement in 2006, Dr. Cancro served as professor and chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine, Director of Psychiatry at New York University Hospital and director of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research. Today, he continues to serve as a professor in the Department of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine and as director of the Mental Illness Prevention Center. Prior to 1976, Dr. Cancro was a professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Connecticut Health Center. Dr. Cancro is a widely published, internationally recognized psychiatrist and educator, having received numerous honors and awards. He is on the editorial board of several scientific journals and is an examiner for the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology Inc. Dr. Cancro is a Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, the American College of Psychiatrists and the American College of Physicians. Dr. Cancro is president and a director of the International Committee Against Mental Illness and Chairman of the Section on Psychiatric Rehabilitation of the World Psychiatric Association. Arvid Carlsson, M.D., Ph.D. is a world-renowned neuropharmacologist and the recipient of numerous prizes and awards, including the Nobel Prize and the Legion of Honour. Dr. Carlsson has been Professor Emeritus at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden since 1989. Prior to that, he was Professor, Pharmacology Department, University of Gothenburg since 1959 and served as chairman from 1959 to 1976. He has conducted groundbreaking research in the areas of depression, schizophrenia and Parkinson’s disease. 23 John W. Daly, Ph.D. is an internationally known chemist/pharmacologist. Now a scientist emeritus in the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Dr. Daly was chief of NIDDK’s Laboratory of Bioorganic Chemistry, a laboratory he founded and headed from 1981 to 1997. Natural products discovered through the research of Dr. Daly’s lab, primarily alkaloids derived from amphibian skin, have had a major impact on knowledge of how the nervous system functions and how drugs interact with the nervous system. During Dr. Daly’s 40-year tenure at NIH, his numerous accomplishments have included the discovery of the “NIH Shift” — an unexpected molecular process involved in the conversion of the amino acids phenylalanine and tryptophan to the important neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. Author of more than 500 research papers, a book (Cyclic Nucleotides in the Nervous System) and many book chapters, Dr. Daly was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1997. Among his many other honors are the Hillebrand Award from the American Chemical Society in 1978, the Research Achievement Award from the American Society of Pharmacognosy in 1997, the Karl Wilhelm Scheele Award from the Swedish Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences in 1999 and in 2002, the American Chemical Society’s Ernest Guenther Award in the Chemistry of Natural Products. That same year, he was also named among the most-cited pharmacologists in the world. David H. Farb, Ph.D. is a Professor and has served since 1990 as Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics at the Boston University School of Medicine, where he also serves as Director of the Program in Biomedical Neuroscience. Additionally, he is Director of the university-wide interdisciplinary NIGMS-funded Biomolecular Pharmacology Training Program, the interdepartmental Program in Biomedical Neuroscience and heads the Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology. Dr. Farb chairs the Executive Committee for the Medical Sciences Training Program and is a member of the Bioinformatics Program. He is currently President of New England Pharmacologists Chapter of ASPET. Prior to joining BU, Dr. Farb was a full professor with tenure and Head of the Molecular Pharmacology Research Program at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center. He also was elected Presiding Officer of the Graduate School at SUNY. While in New York, Dr. Farb was elected Chair of the Section of Biological Sciences at the New York Academy of Sciences, where he subsequently founded the Section of Neuroscience. He received his B.A. in Chemistry from Long Island University and the Ph.D. in Biochemistry at Brandeis University. Dr. Farb’s current research is directed toward understanding the mechanisms of action of abused substances and steroid hormones and their interactions with excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors in the central nervous system. The research also focuses on the mechanism of action and discovery of neuromodulators as therapeutic agents and on the structure, function, and cellular dynamics of ion channels and receptors in the brain and spinal cord. Arnold S. Lippa, Ph.D. is a co-founder of DOV and served as our chief executive officer from April 1995 through June 2005. Since our inception in April 1995, Dr. Lippa has served as our chairman of our board of directors and since July 2005, serves as our executive chairman of our board of directors. Dr. Lippa also currently serves as chairman of Xintria Pharmaceutical Corporation, as senior managing director of Aurora Capital LLC and as manager of Atypical BioCapital Management LLC, Atypical BioVentures LLC and T Morgen Capital LLC. Prior to 1985, he served as Director of Molecular Neurobiology and held other positions at American Cyanamid. In addition, Dr. Lippa has consulted for various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and has been a graduate faculty professor at the New York University School of Medicine and the City University of New York. Website Availability of Reports Our Internet website address is http://www.dovpharm.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Corporate Information We were incorporated in May 1995 in New Jersey and reincorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 150 Pierce Street, Somerset, NJ 08873. The telephone number of our principal executive office is (732) 907-3600. 24 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events covered by the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, our actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of the following factors. Risks Related to our Business If we cannot raise additional funding, we may be unable to complete development of our product candidates. At December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $42.3 million. Pursuant to the recent consummation of the Exchange Offer, we have paid out $14.3 million and incurred substantial fees and expenses. We have also paid out an additional $2.5 million to repay the remaining outstanding debentures. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses, interest payments on our debt obligations and capital requirements until December 31, 2007. We will require additional funding to continue our research and development programs, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, for operating expenses and to pursue regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We intend to raise additional capital in 2007 through public or private financing or collaborative agreements; however, if adequate funds are not available to us as we need them, we will be required to curtail significantly or eliminate at least temporarily one or more product development programs. These matters raise substantial doubt over our ability to continue as a going concern. Failure to obtain approval by our shareholders of an increase in our authorized shares of common stock will result in dilution to shareholders as well as a retained liquidation preference to our series c convertible preferred stockholders. In connection with the consummation of the Exchange Offer described under Part I of this Form 10-K, we made an aggregate cash payment of $14.3 million and issued 539,784 shares of convertible preferred stock, representing 79.4% of the Company’s outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis, in exchange for $67.5 million of our Debentures. In the event our common stockholders fail to approve an amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of common stock, existing stockholders will begin to experience additional dilution beginning on the date that is 45 days following the date that the SEC informs us that it has no further comments on the proxy statement filed by us in connection with the proposed increase of the number of authorized shares of our common stock. This additional dilution will be caused by an increase in the conversion ratio of 1% per week subject to a maximum increase of 50% which will increase the number of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of each share of convertible preferred stock, thus increasing the percentage of the Company owned by the holders of convertible preferred stock on an as converted basis. In the event the Company’s common stockholders never approve the amendment and the conversion ratio increased until it reached the maximum limit, current holders of common stock’s ownership interest in the Company would decrease from 20% to approximately 14.7%, without giving effect to outstanding options and warrants. Senior Status of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock in Liquidation Will Remain: In the event the amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to increase the authorized common stock is not approved, the series C convertible preferred stock will remain outstanding and such shares will remain senior to the common stock and the series D convertible preferred stock in a liquidation of the Company. Accordingly, a holder of common stock or series D convertible preferred stock will not receive any proceeds in connection with a liquidation of the Company unless and until the holders of series C convertible preferred stock receive their full liquidation preference of $44 million. Accordingly, holders of common stock and series D convertible preferred stock would only receive proceeds in a liquidation in the event the full amount of such liquidation preference is paid to the holders of series C convertible preferred stock. 25 New Class of Common Stock: Holders of a majority of each series of the convertible preferred stock will also have the right to request that the Board approve and submit to stockholders for approval, an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to provide for a new class of common stock into which the new series of convertible preferred stock would then be convertible based upon the conversion ratio for the existing common stock described above. The new class of common stock will have certain rights that are superior to the existing common stock. Mandatory conversion of our series C convertible preferred stock will result in dilution to our common stockholders and may cause our common stock’s price to decline. In the event the amendment to increase the authorized common stock is approved, the shares of series C convertible preferred stock will automatically convert into common stock on the earlier to occur of (i) the date that is thirty (30) days following the filing of the amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of the State of Delaware to increase our authorized common stock, and (ii) the date that we consummate a financing through the issuance of our equity or long term debt securities in which the gross proceeds to the Company are at least $5 million, provided that the foregoing amendment to our Certificate of Incorporation has been filed. In the event the amendment to increase authorized common stock is approved, the number of shares of common stock outstanding will increase by 84.0 million shares shortly following the approval. Sales of these additional shares of common stock, which generally will have no restriction on trading, may cause our common stock’s price to decline. In addition, future growth and increases in the value of the Company as a whole will be shared by a significantly larger number of shares of common stock. In the event the amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation to increase the authorized common stock is approved, the mandatory conversion of the series C convertible preferred stock will also have the effect of removing the liquidation preference that holders thereof are entitled to. Accordingly, in the event the Company is liquidated, holders of common stock (including common stock issued upon the mandatory conversion of the series C convertible preferred stock) and holders of the series D convertible preferred stock will share on a pari passu basis in any liquidation proceeds. The delisting of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market will result in more limited trading opportunities for holders of our common stock, increased volatility and additional difficulty in raising capital in the future if needed. Our common stock is no longer traded on The NASDAQ Global Market. Instead, it is currently quoted on the Pink Sheets and may, in the future, be traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers. Although these trading venues offer holders of our common stock the opportunity to trade, it is likely that our stock price will be highly volatile. Moreover, it is unlikely that any significant long-term institutional holdings will develop through these trading venues. Trading on the Pink Sheets and the OTC Bulletin Board will also likely present additional difficulties in the event we need to raise additional capital in the future as most institutions prefer to invest in a common stock that is traded on a national securities exchange. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may decline. Our stock price has been particularly volatile. Following the release of results from our completed Phase III clinical trial of bicifadine in patients with chronic low back pain, or CLBP, our stock price experienced a substantial decline from the previous day’s close price of $14.69 to $7.92. Further, following our partner Neurocrine’s announcement regarding the FDA review and approval process for indiplon, our stock price experienced another decline from the previous day’s close price of $7.05 to $3.02 and has further declined upon the July 31, 2006 announcement of our notice of NASDAQ listing requirement deficiencies and the October 26, 2006 announcement that we would no longer be listed for trading on a national exchange. 26 Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to continue to fluctuate include: · future issuances of our common stock or other forms of financings which would result in substantial dilution to our existing equity holders; · results of clinical trials conducted by us or on our behalf, or by our competitors; · delays in initiating clinical trials or changes in previously planned or initiated clinical trials; · regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries, such as the result of the May 2006 FDA issuance of an approvable letter (for the 5mg and 10mg IR doses) and a non-approvable letter (for the 15mg MR dose) by the FDA for the indiplon NDA filings; · business or legal developments concerning our collaborators, licensors or licensees, including XTL, Neurocrine and Wyeth; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · public concern over our drugs that treat CNS disorders, including any drugs that we may develop in the future; · litigation; · general market conditions; · changes in the structure of health care payment systems; · failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results and financial position; and · changes in senior management. If any of the foregoing risks occur, our stock price could fall and in some cases expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. In this regard, following a decline in the aftermarket trading price of our common stock in connection with our initial public offering, beginning on April 30, 2002, a number of class action lawsuits were filed naming us as defendants, in addition to certain of our officers and directors and certain of our underwriters. On December 20, 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement, which was approved by the court on April 16, 2003, to settle these lawsuits. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we have paid the class members (inclusive of their attorneys' fees and costs) $250,000 in cash and issued them six-year warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $10.00 per share. Upon issuance, we determined the value of the warrants to be $2.2 million. We have incurred losses since our inception and expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never reach profitability. Since our inception in April 1995 through December 31, 2006, we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $191.7 million. We have not yet completed the development, including obtaining regulatory approvals, of any product candidate and, consequently, have not generated any revenues from the sale of products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may never achieve significant sales revenue and we expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses may increase in the foreseeable future as we: · conduct clinical trials; · conduct research and development on existing and new product candidates; · make milestone payments; · seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; · commercialize our product candidates, if approved; · hire additional clinical, scientific and management personnel; and 27 · identify additional compounds and acquire rights from third parties to those compounds through a license to us. We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We are dependent on the successful outcome of clinical trials for our lead product candidates. None of our product candidates are currently approved for sale by the FDA, or by any other regulatory agency in the world, and our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, they must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. Our success will depend on the success of clinical trials that have not yet begun. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials including, but not limited to, the possibilities that: · we may discover that a product candidate causes or may cause harmful side effects; · we may discover that a product candidate, even if safe when taken alone, may interfere with the actions of other drugs taken at the same time such that its marketability is materially reduced; · we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans; · a product candidate may lend itself to user abuse, in which case labeling may adversely affect its marketability; · results may not be statistically significant or predictive of results to be obtained from large-scale, advanced clinical trials; · we or the FDA may suspend or delay initiation of further clinical trials of our product candidates for any of a number of reasons; · we may be delayed in the FDA protocol review process; · patient recruitment may be slower than expected; · patient compliance may fall short of trial requirements; and · patients may drop out of our clinical trials. In October 2003, the FDA placed the start of our Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon, our anti-anxiety product candidate, on hold and requested that we produce additional safety information. We supplied this information to the FDA and with FDA concurrence initiated a Phase III clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2004. In August 2005, we announced that we had suspended the trial due to a recent occurrence of enzyme elevations in liver function tests, or LFTs, for one subject in the trial and, following our trial report to the FDA, the agency joined in the clinical hold. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in ocinaplon clinical trials. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was eight percent. Based upon these data, we discontinued the development of ocinaplon for GAD. In April and May 2006, we announced the results of our Phase III clinical trial of bicifadine for the treatment of chronic lower back pain, CLBP, study 020. Bicifadine did not achieve a statistically significant effect relative to placebo on the primary endpoint of the study at any of the three doses tested. In October 2006, we announced the interim results of our second Phase III clinical trial of bicifadine for CLBP, study 021. Bicifadine did not achieve a statistically significant effect relative to placebo on the primary endpoint of the study and we therefore stopped the dosing in this study. We also recently stopped the dosing in the long-term safety trial, study 022. Following the execution of our sublicense agreement with XTL for bicifadine, we are required to perform certain transition activities relating to bicifadine. We anticipate this process will take several months and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2007. 28 Given the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the regulatory and clinical trial process, we may not be able to successfully advance the development of effective and safe, commercially viable products. If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize any one or more of our product candidates, this could severely harm our business, impair our ability to generate revenues and adversely impact our stock price. We may determine to continue to reduce staffing further as a result of stopping certain clinical trials and other development activities for bicifadine, in which case we could face lawsuits. On May 18, 2006, we reduced our workforce to 74 employees from 111 employees in order to lower our cost structure as part of a reorganization of operations and to appropriately align our operations with its current stage of drug development and research. This reduction in force was made as a result of the postponement by us of certain clinical trials and other development activities for bicifadine. In October 2006, we announced the interim results of our second Phase III clinical trial of bicifadine for CLBP, study 021. Bicifadine did not achieve a statistically significant effect relative to placebo on the primary endpoint of the study and we therefore stopped the dosing in this study. We also recently stopped the dosing in the long-term safety trial, study 022. In addition, our sublicense of bicifadine to XTL in January 2007 resulted in the further reduction of the time and resources necessary for the development of bicifadine. Once the transition activities required under our sublicense agreement for bicifadine are complete, we may determine to further reduce our workforce. Any reduction in workforce is accompanied by risk of litigation, which if initiated or successful, could harm our business and financial position. We have experienced a substantial decline in our workforce and we may continue to experience such declines given the uncertainty of our current business situation. Further reductions could hinder our ability to efficiently complete regulatory closeouts of our clinical studies or transact discussions with potential partners. From June 2006 through March 19, 2007, our workforce has declined to 41 employees from 74 employees. With the uncertainty of our business situation we expect to have further declines. With the employee base that we currently have, we believe we will complete the transition activities required under our sublicense agreement with XTL for bicifadine in the second quarter of 2007. The decline in our workforce has hindered us from initiating any additional clinical studies with our reuptake inhibitors and any further reductions in workforce will not only result in further delays in initiating clinical studies but could also result in increased costs associated with hiring outside consultants to complete ongoing work. We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, approvals may be delayed or the approvals we receive may not be sufficient to fulfill our current goals for our product candidates. Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates and in our ongoing research and development activities. Our partner Neurocrine filed two NDAs for indiplon for the treatment of insomnia in April and May 2005. The FDA issued an approvable letter for the 5 mg and 10 mg IR formulation and a non-approvable letter for the 15 mg MR formulation in May 2006. Neurocrine announced in January 2007 that it plans to resubmit its NDA for indiplon capsules by the end of the second quarter of 2007. All our other product candidates are in various stages of research and development and we have not yet requested or received regulatory approval to commercialize any product candidate from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing, clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take many years to complete and the approvals we receive may not allow us to pursue all the desired indications or uses for each of our product candidates. Additionally, even after receipt of FDA approval, the FDA may request additional clinical trials to evaluate any adverse reactions or long-term effects. The scope and expense of such post-approval trials could be extensive and costly to us. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If our product candidates are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. 29 Any failure to receive regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we, or our collaborators or licensees, fail to obtain or maintain or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any product candidates we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues and our liquidity and capital resources. As noted above, in October 2003, the FDA placed the start of our Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon, on hold and requested that we produce additional safety information. We supplied this information to the FDA and with FDA approval initiated a Phase III clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2004. In August 2005, we announced that we had suspended the trial following a recent occurrence of enzyme elevations in LFTs for one subject in the trial and, following our trial report to the FDA, the agency joined in the clinical hold. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in ocinaplon clinical trials. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was eight percent. Based upon these data, we have discontinued the development of ocinaplon for GAD. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is unpredictable and has fluctuated significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to be highly volatile. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results are not good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict our future results. In the future, our operating results in a particular period may not meet the expectations of any securities analysts whose attention we may attract, or those of our investors, which may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our success in developing our product candidates depends upon the performance of our licensees and collaborative partners. Our efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our existing and any future product candidates depend in part upon the performance of our licensees and collaborative partners. Currently, we have license and collaborative agreements with XTL, Neurocrine and Wyeth. If DOV at any time becomes insolvent or commits actions for bankruptcy, the license for our compounds with Wyeth may be terminated and thus we may not have any remaining economic interest in the compounds. In addition, if at any time we become insolvent or commit actions for bankruptcy, the licenses for certain technology that we have with certain of our partners may be terminated. In connection with certain of these agreements, we have granted certain rights, including development and marketing rights and rights to defend and enforce our intellectual property. We do not have day-to-day control over the activities of our licensees or collaborative partners and cannot assure you that they will fulfill their obligations to us, including their development and commercialization responsibilities in respect of our product candidates. We also cannot assure you that our licensees or collaborators will properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or that they will not utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability. Further, we cannot assure you that our licensees or collaborators will not encounter conflicts of interest, or changes in business strategy, or that they will not acquire or develop rights to competing products, all of which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. 30 From January 1999 until October 2003, Elan Corporation plc (“Elan”) and we were engaged in developing controlled release formulations of bicifadine and ocinaplon pursuant to our joint venture. In October 2003, we acquired from Elan 100% ownership of Nascime, the joint venture's operating subsidiary, and the product candidates bicifadine and ocinaplon. This acquisition ended our involvement with Elan in the nearly five-year joint venture. In March 2003, we and Biovail Laboratories, Inc. terminated our collaboration for DOV diltiazem and in December 2006, we and Merck, Inc. terminated our collaboration for DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303. Any failure on the part of our licensees or collaborators to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and affect our ability to realize product revenues. Disagreements with our licensees or collaborators could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which could be time-consuming and expensive. If we or our licensees or collaborators fail to maintain our existing agreements or establish new agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. This would significantly increase our capital requirements and may also delay the commercialization of our product candidates. The independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we rely upon to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with to assist with the execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. Moreover, these independent investigators and CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If independent investigators and CROs assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Our existing collaborative and licensing agreements contain, and any such agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants that restrict our product development and commercialization activities. Our existing license and collaborative agreements contain covenants that restrict our product development and our ability to compete in collaborative agreements. In addition, certain of our agreements no longer effective have involved, among other things, restrictions on the issuance of debt and equity securities and limitations on our ability to license our product candidates to third parties. Because of existing restrictive covenants, if our licensees or collaborators fail to fulfill their obligations to us or we are otherwise not able to maintain these relationships, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into alternative arrangements or assume the development of these product candidates ourselves. This would significantly affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Further, we cannot assure you, even if alternative arrangements are available to us, that they will be any less restrictive on our business activities. If we are unable to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We do not have any sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize our product candidates, if any are approved, we must either acquire or internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we obtain FDA approval for our existing product candidates, we intend to rely on relationships with one or more pharmaceutical companies or other third parties with established distribution systems and direct sales forces to market our product candidates. If we decide to market any of our product candidates directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and negatively impact our product development efforts. Moreover, we may not be able to establish in-house sales and distribution capabilities or relationships with third parties. To the extent we enter into co-promotion or other licensing agreements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our product candidates, and any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful. 31 The success of our business depends upon the members of our senior management team, our scientific staff and our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. We are dependent on the principal members of our management team and scientific staff for our business success. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development and business objectives. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. There is intense competition for human resources, including management, in the scientific fields in which we operate and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful development of our product candidates, and any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. In addition, there can be no assurance that such personnel or resources will be available when needed. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy and other business activities. All our consultants may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Because some of our product candidates are protected by patents with respect to some of our product candidates that have expired or will expire in the near term, we may be required to rely solely on the Hatch-Waxman Act for market exclusivity. A number of patents that we licensed from Wyeth have expired, including certain composition of matter patents that provide protection for the use of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, and the use of bicifadine for the treatment of pain. Patents protecting intermediates useful in the manufacture of ocinaplon are due to expire in 2007. The numerous patent applications pending and others in preparation covering our compounds, even if filed and approved, may not afford us adequate protection against generic versions of our product candidates or other competitive products. In the event we achieve regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates and we are unable to obtain adequate patent protection for the ultimate marketed product, we will be required to rely to a greater extent on the Hatch-Waxman Act, and applicable foreign legislation, to achieve market exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act generally provides for marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval for a particular drug by prohibiting filing of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA, by a generic competitor for up to five years after the drug is first approved. The Hatch-Waxman Act, however, also accelerates the approval process for generic competitors using the same active ingredients once the period of statutory exclusivity has expired. It may also in practice encourage more aggressive legal challenges to the patents protecting approved drugs. In addition, because some of our patents have expired, third parties may develop competing product candidates using our product compounds and if they obtain regulatory approval for those products prior to us, we would be barred from seeking an ANDA for those products under the Hatch-Waxman Act for the applicable statutory exclusivity period. 32 Our business activities require compliance with environmental laws, which if violated could result in significant fines and work stoppage. Our research and development programs, and the manufacturing operations and disposal procedures of our contractors and collaborators, are affected by federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws. Although we intend to use reasonable efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, our contractors and collaborators may not comply with these laws. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant fines and work stoppage, and may harm our business. We have not been able to fully utilize our new corporate headquarters, and as a result, our overhead expenses have increased. In February 2006, we committed to a ten-year operating lease for a 133,686 square foot facility in Somerset, New Jersey. This facility has served as our corporate headquarters and principal place of business since June 2006. This new facility has office and laboratory space and results in a higher level of fixed overhead. As a result of the failure of the Phase III bicifadine clinical studies 020 and 021, the stoppage of 022 and the sublicensing of bicifadine to XTL, for the foreseeable future we will not utilize the full capacity of the facility and there can be no assurance that we will ever operate the facility efficiently. The annual lease payments on this facility are $2.8 million. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may obligate us to make substantial payments and in some instances payments in advance of judicial resolution of entitlement. Our bylaws require that we indemnify our directors, officers and scientific advisory board members, and permit us to indemnify our other employees and agents, to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware corporate law. This could require us, with some legally prescribed exceptions, to indemnify our directors, officers and scientific advisory board members against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement in connection with an action, suit or proceeding relating to their association with us. For directors, our bylaws require us to pay in advance of final disposition all expenses including attorneys’ fees incurred by them in connection with any action, suit or proceeding relating to their status or actions as directors. Advance payment of legal expenses is discretionary for officers, scientific advisory board members and other employees or agents. We may make these advance payments provided that they are preceded or accompanied by an undertaking on behalf of the indemnified party to repay all advances if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by us. Accordingly, we may incur expenses to meet these indemnification obligations, including expenses that in hindsight are not qualified for reimbursement and possibly not subject to recovery as a practical matter. Provisions of Delaware law, our charter and by-laws and our stockholders rights plan may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Moreover, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in October 2002, commonly called a poison pill, empowers our board of directors to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly to thwart, any tender or takeover attempt the board of directors opposes. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. 33 Risks Related to our Industry We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and marked by a number of established, large pharmaceutical companies, as well as smaller emerging companies, whose activities are directly focused on our target markets and areas of expertise. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our product candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are focused on developing product candidates for the treatment of central nervous system disorders. We have a number of competitors. If one or more of their products or programs are successful, the market for our product candidates may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: · capital resources and access to capital; · research and development resources, including personnel and technology; · regulatory experience; · preclinical study and clinical testing experience; and · manufacturing, distribution and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we. Our competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates or technologies. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective or useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than we and our collaborators or licensees in manufacturing and marketing their products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our product candidates. To a substantial degree, our success will depend on the following intellectual property achievements: · our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates, as well as our ability to preserve our trade secrets; · the ability of our collaborators and licensees to obtain patent protection for their proprietary technologies and product candidates covered by our agreements, as well as their ability to preserve related trade secrets; and · our ability to prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights, as well as the ability of our collaborators and licensees to accomplish the same. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we, either alone or together with our collaborators or licensees, intend to seek and enhance patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates. The risk exists, however, that these patents may be unobtainable and that the breadth of the claims in a patent, if obtained, may not provide adequate protection of our, or our collaborators’ or licensees’ proprietary technologies or product candidates. 34 We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, licensees, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some of, but not all, our collaborators and consultants. If our employees, collaborators or consultants breach these agreements or common law principles, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own or otherwise have certain rights to a number of patents and patent applications, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensees. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or if they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents, or the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or that challenges will result in elimination of patent claims and therefore limitations of coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents, the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that our patents do not cover its technology. In addition, interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensees. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we, or our collaborators or licensees, will be able to prevent misappropriation of our respective proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our product candidates and the technologies we use in our research may inadvertently infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, other parties conduct their research and development efforts in segments where we, or our collaborators or licensees, focus research and development activities. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our collaborators or licensees, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our collaborators or licensees could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit is brought against us, or our collaborators or licensees, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to stop or be delayed, unless that party is willing to grant certain rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, or our collaborators or licensees were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. 35 Our ability to receive royalties and profits from product sales depends in part upon the availability of approved reimbursement for the use of our products from third-party payors, for which we may or may not qualify. Our royalties or profits will be heavily dependent upon the availability of reimbursement for the use of our products from third-party health care payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. The health care industry and these third-party payors are experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing the costs of health care through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. These cost-containment efforts could adversely affect the market acceptance of our product candidates and may also harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any of the payment reductions that may occur. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Reimbursement approval is required from each third-party payor individually, and seeking this approval is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. There also exists substantial uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of any drug product incorporating new technology. We cannot assure you that third-party reimbursement will be available for our product candidates utilizing new technology, or that any reimbursement authorization, if obtained, will be adequate. If such reimbursement approval is denied or delayed, the marketability of our product candidates could be materially impaired. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to a substantial risk of product liability claims and the adverse publicity resulting from such claims. These claims might be brought against us by study participants or once a drug has received regulatory approval and is marketed, by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we may incur substantial losses or expenses, or be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. Our insurance coverage, however, may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause our stock price to fall. 36 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 