D. Risk Factors This section is intended to be a summary of more detailed discussions contained elsewhere in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materializes and, as a result, the trading price of our shares and our ADSs could decline. 11 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Business Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our strategic objectives. Factors beyond our control may prevent us from successfully implementing our strategy. Our business strategy is aimed at improving revenues and selective growth, while maintaining financial discipline. To achieve this goal, seek to strengthen our market position by leveraging mobile telephony to increase broadband usage and exploiting opportunities arising from fixed-to-mobile substitution. Our ability to implement our strategy is influenced by many factors outside of our control, including: · government policy and changes in the regulatory environment in Brazil; · an increase in the number of competitors in the telecommunications industry that could affect our market share; · increasing competition from global and local OTT (Over The Top) players (operators such as mobile virtual network operators or branded resellers offering content and services on the internet without owning their own proprietary telecommunications network infrastructure); · increased competition in our principal markets that could affect the prices we charge for our services; · our ability to strengthen our competitive position in the Brazilian mobile telecommunications market; · our ability to develop and introduce new and innovative technologies that are received favorably by the market, and to provide value-added services to encourage the use of our network; · the introduction of transformative technologies that could cause a significant decrease in revenues for all mobile telephone carriers; · our ability to integrate acquired businesses and implement operational efficiency; · our ability to operate efficiently and to refinance our debt as it comes due, particularly in consideration of uncertainties in credit and capital markets; · our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; · our ability to integrate companies and assets that we acquire; · the effect of exchange rate fluctuations; · any difficulties we may encounter in our supply and procurement processes, including as a result of the insolvency or financial weakness of our suppliers; and · the costs we may incur due to unexpected events, in particular where our insurance is not sufficient to cover such costs. As a result of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that our strategic objectives can effectively be attained in the manner and within the timeframes described. We face increasing competition, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The opening of the Brazilian market to competition for telecommunications services has adversely affected historical margins in the industry. We face increased competition throughout Brazil from new entrants in the personal communications service, or “PCS,” market. We compete with providers of wireless services and trunking and with providers of fixed-line telecommunications and Internet access services, because of the trend toward the convergence and substitution of mobile services for these and other services and a trend of bundling PCS with Internet and other services. As a result, the cost of maintaining our revenue share has increased and in the future we 12 Table of Contents may incur higher advertising and other costs as we attempt to maintain or expand our market presence. Claro and Vivo Participações S.A., or “Vivo,” received authorization to provide PCS in the same regions as TIM, completing their national coverage. Also, “Oi” (the new Tele Norte Leste Participações S.A. brand) received authorization to provide PCS in the State of São Paulo. We also expect to face increased competition from other wireless telecommunications services, such as digital trunking, because these services are generally less expensive than cellular telecommunications services. In addition, technological changes in the telecommunications field, such as the development and roll-out of Third and Fourth Generations or “3G” and “4G, “ and Voice over Internet Protocol or “VOIP,” are expected to introduce additional sources of competition. Increased competition may increase our churn rate and could continue to adversely affect our market share and margins. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and our ability to anticipate and respond to developments in the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Additionally, we may face competitors with greater access to financial resources. We cannot predict which of many possible factors will be important in maintaining our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide new technologies, products or services to our customers. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Recent market consolidation, including the merger of Vivo and Telecomunicações de São Paulo S.A. – Telesp, may allow other telecommunications companies to compete more aggressively against us. We may be unable to respond to the recent trend towards consolidation in the Brazilian wireless telecommunications market. The Brazilian telecommunication market has been consolidating and we believe such trend is likely to continue. Additional joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions among telecommunications service providers are possible in the future. If such consolidation occurs, it may result in increased competition within our market. We may be unable to adequately respond to pricing pressures resulting from consolidation in our market, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may face difficulties responding to new telecommunications technologies. The Brazilian wireless telecommunications market is experiencing significant technological changes, as evidenced by, among other factors: · the changing regulatory environment, such as the introduction of number portability; · shorter time periods between the introduction of new telecommunication technologies and subsequent upgrades or replacements; · ongoing improvements in the capacity and quality of digital technology available in Brazil; and · the anticipated auction of licenses for the operation of 3.5 GHz and 10.5 GHz (WI-MAX) bandwidths with limited mobility. We may be unable to keep pace with these technological changes, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is dependent on our ability to expand our services and to maintain the quality of the services provided. Our business as a cellular telecommunications services provider depends on our ability to maintain and expand our cellular telecommunications services network. We believe that our expected growth will require, among other things: 13 Table of Contents · continuous development of our operational and administrative systems; · increasing marketing activities; and · attracting, training and retaining qualified management, technical, customer relations, and sales personnel. We believe that these requirements will place significant demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Failure to manage successfully our expected growth could reduce the quality of our services, with adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to maintain and protect our network. Damage to our network and backup systems could result in service delays or interruptions and limit our ability to provide customers with reliable service over our network. The occurrence of any event that damages our network may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain, upgrade and efficiently operate accounting, billing, customer service, information technology and management information systems. Sophisticated information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, render monthly invoices, process customer orders, provide customer service and achieve operating efficiencies. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully operate and upgrade our information and processing systems or that they will continue to perform as expected. Any failure in our accounting, information and processing systems could impair our ability to collect payments from customers and respond satisfactorily to customer needs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience a decrease in customer growth and high rate of customer turnover which could increase our costs of operations and reduce our revenue. Our subscriber acquisition rate can be negatively affected by overall market penetration. Additionally, our high churn rates are primarily a result of our competitors’ aggressive subsidization of handset sales, adverse macroeconomic conditions in Brazil and our strict policy of terminating customers who do not continue to use our services or do not pay their bills on time. Churn reflects the number of customers who terminate their service or have their service terminated during a period, expressed as a percentage of the simple average of customers at the beginning and end of the period. As indicated by historical churn rates, we may experience a high rate of customer turnover which could increase our cost of operations and reduce our revenue. Several factors in addition to competitive pressures could influence our subscriber acquisition rate and our churn rate, including limited network coverage, lack of reliable service and economic conditions in Brazil. Our controlling shareholder may exercise its control in a manner that differs from the interests of other shareholders. Telecom Italia, through its ownership of TIM Brasil, our controlling shareholder, has the ability to determine actions that require shareholder approval, including the election of a majority of our directors and, subject to Brazilian law, the payment of dividends and other distributions. Telecom Italia may pursue acquisitions, asset sales, joint ventures or financing arrangements or may pursue other objectives that conflict with the interests of other shareholders and which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. System failures could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenue and could harm our reputation. Our success largely depends on the continued and uninterrupted performance of our information technology, network systems and of certain hardware. Our technical infrastructure (including our network infrastructure for mobile telecommunications services) is vulnerable to damage or interruption from information and telecommunication technology failures, power loss, floods, windstorms, fires, terrorism, intentional wrongdoing, human error and similar events. Unanticipated problems at our facilities, system failures, hardware or software failures, computer viruses or hacker attacks could affect the quality of our services and cause service interruptions. Any of these occurrences could result in reduced user traffic and reduced revenue and could harm our levels of customer satisfaction and our reputation. 14 Table of Contents Certain debt agreements of our subsidiaries contain financial covenants and any default under such debt agreements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Certain of our subsidiaries’ existing debt agreements contain restrictions and covenants and require the maintenance or satisfaction of specified financial ratios and tests. The ability of our subsidiaries to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our and their control, and we cannot assure that they will meet those tests. Failure to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, financial ratios or financial tests could result in an event of default under these agreements. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately R$4,279.4 million in consolidated outstanding indebtedness of which 35% was denominated in foreign currency (primarily U.S. dollars), for which we use derivative instruments to offset exposure to foreign currency. If we are unable to meet these debt service obligations, or comply with these debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance this indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. Our net debt position in 2012 of R$151.1 million (loans plus accrued interest and derivatives (liabilities), less cash and cash equivalents, derivatives (assets) and short term investments), means we should not need substantial funding to meet our obligations or to conduct our activities. We are subject to numerous legal proceedings. We and our subsidiaries are party to a number of lawsuits and other proceedings. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits could result in losses and significant costs to us. In addition, our senior management may be required to devote substantial time to these lawsuits, which they could otherwise devote to our business. Any modification or termination of our ability to use the “TIM” trade name may adversely affect our business and operating results. Telecom Italia owns the rights to the “TIM” trade name which is currently licensed to us. Telecom Italia may stop us from using the TIM trade name any time. The loss of the use of the “TIM” trade name could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. The shareholding structure of our parent company, Telecom Italia S.p.A., has undergone significant changes which has subjected us to increased government oversight. On April 28, 2007, Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A., Intesa San Paolo S.p.A., Mediobanca S.p.A., Sintonia S.p.A. and Telefónica S.A. entered into an agreement to acquire the entire share capital of Olimpia S.p.A., a company which, at the time, held approximately 18% of the voting capital of Telecom Itália S.p.A., our indirect parent company. This acquisition was made through Telco S.p.A., or “Telco.” With the conclusion of the transaction and the subsequent merger of Olimpia S.p.A. with and into Telco in December 2007, Telco became the holder of 23.6% and currently holds 22.4% of the voting capital of Telecom Italia S.p.A. the indirect parent company of TIM. In connection with the approval of the acquisition, through Act No. 68,276/2007, of October 31, 2007, Anatel imposed certain restrictions to guarantee the total segregation of the business and operations of Telefónica and TIM in Brazil, including, among other things, the obligation that the Telecom Italia group companies directly or indirectly involved in the Brazilian telecommunications sector present Anatel with copies of the minutes of the meetings of their respective boards of directors. On July 7, 2009, Anatel issued Act No. 3,804/2009, that considered accomplished some of the obligations imposed by Act No. 68,276/2007, as well as established other obligations related to the filing of minutes of meetings of the respective boards of directors of the companies which directly or indirectly operate in the Brazilian telecommunication market and minutes of the shareholders meetings in which directors are appointed. The companies in Brazil were also obliged to present information related to the execution of any agreements between companies under the shareholding control of Telefónica and Telecom Italia in connection with telecom services offered in Brazil and also copies of minutes of the meetings of their respective boards of directors in which these agreements are discussed. On November 8, 2011, Anatel issued a new decision (No. 9,403/2011) clarifying that, according to its interpretation of Act No. 68,276/2007, companies of the Telecom Italia group to which the restrictions were addressed are also obliged to present Anatel with copies of the minutes of all meetings of the respective boards of directors, regardless of whether or not the members of such body were appointed following direct or indirect nomination by Telefónica and whether or not matters concerning activities relating to the provision of telecommunications services in the Brazilian market were discussed. In order to ensure 15 Table of Contents full compliance with such restrictions and also considering those clarifications provided by Anatel, some internal procedures were approved and adopted by each of the companies to which the restrictions were addressed, by means of a resolution of the applicable administrative body. Such procedures were approved by our Board of Directors at a meeting held on February 15, 2012. On December 26, 2012, as part of CADE’s review and in view of the documents that had been submitted by each group since the TCD’s approval, CADE’s Attorney General issued a legal opinion that confirmed that most of our obligations were duly satisfied, but required additional information in order to verify possible non-compliance. On February 13, 2013, we submitted our response. We are subject to credit risk with respect to our customers. Our operations depend to a significant extent on the ability of our customers to pay for our services. In the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we made allowances for doubtful accounts in the amounts of R$250.9 million, R$231.5 million and R$310.5 million, respectively, primarily due to defaults in payment by our customers. As a percentage of our gross revenue, our provisions for doubtful accounts amounted to 0.9%, 0.9% and 1.5% in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Under Anatel regulations, we are allowed to undertake certain measures to reduce customer defaults, such as restricting or limiting the services we provide to customers with a history of defaults. If we are unable to undertake measures to limit payment defaults by our subscribers or that allow us to accept new subscribers based on credit history, we will remain subject to outstanding uncollectible amounts which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be subject to liability related to outsourcing certain functions to third-party service providers. We may be exposed to liabilities due to our outsourcing of certain functions to third-party service providers, for which we may not have made sufficient provisions. Recent government announcements and legal proceedings have called into question the ability of public service concessionaires to carry out their operations by outsourcing certain functions. Though no definitive position has been reached by any governmental authority, recent court opinions could set legal precedent that could call into question our ability to outsource certain operations. This may require us to hire as employees certain workers who currently work for us on an outsourced basis, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on key suppliers. We rely on various suppliers and vendors, including Apple, Samsung, Ericsson, Alcatel-Lucent S.A., Huawei and Nokia, to supply network equipment and mobile handsets and accessories necessary for our business. These suppliers may, among other things, delay delivery periods, increase their prices, limit the amounts they are willing to supply to us, or may suffer disruptions in their own supply chains. If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with equipment or supplies on a regular basis, we could face difficulties in carrying out our operations, which could negatively affect our results of operations and limit our ability to execute our concession agreements. Our infrastructure could be damaged as a result of natural disasters. Our operations may be suspended or interrupted for an indeterminate period if any of our transmission bases are damaged by natural disasters, including by fire, explosion, storms or similar events. If we are unable to prevent against such damage in the event of a natural disaster, the interruption of our operations would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry We may be classified by Anatel as an economic group with significant market power, which will subject us to increased regulation. In 2005, Anatel issued specific regulations regarding telecommunications service providers with significant market power. Anatel has indicated that it will establish more stringent regulation for economic groups with significant market power in order to ensure competition. We cannot give assurance that we will not be deemed to have significant market power, and thus be subject to increased regulatory requirements. 16 Table of Contents In July 2006, Anatel issued regulations regarding the remuneration of the mobile operator’s network and introduced the concept of significant market power in the industry. Under this regulation, the network usage fee, or VU-M, is freely negotiated between operators, but if operators have not negotiated a fee by 2010, Anatel will determine, through an arbitration procedure and based on a fully allocated cost model, a reference value VU-M companies it deems to hold significant market power in their respective service areas. New rules applicable to PCS operators with regard to this issue are currently being analyzed by Anatel, though currently all PCS operators are considered as having significant market power in their respective service areas. In making future determinations of companies that have significant market power, Anatel will consider market share in the mobile interconnection market and in the mobile services market, economies of scope and scale, infrastructure dominance that cannot be replicated economically, bargaining power vis-à-vis suppliers, existence of vertical integration, existence of barriers to entry and access to financing sources. For purposes of the mobile network remuneration rules, until Anatel defines which operators have significant market power, all operators that include a PCS provider will continue to be considered as having significant market power in the provision of mobile interconnection in their respective service areas. The new rules for PCS providers regarding the regulation of PGMC (Plano Geral de Metas de Competição), published by Anatel as Resolution No. 600 on November 12, 2012 and implemented on November 26, 2012 could have an adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various obligations in the performance of our activities with which we may be unable to comply. In the performance of our telecommunications services, we are subject to compliance with various legal and regulatory obligations including, but not limited to, the obligations arising from the following: · the rules set forth by Anatel, the primary telecommunications industry regulator in Brazil; · the PCS authorizations under which we operate our cellular telecommunications business; · the fixed authorizations (local, national long distance, international long distance under and multimedia service) under which we operate our telecommunications business; · the Consumer Defense Code; and · the General Telecommunications Law (Law No. 9,472/97, as amended). We believe that we are currently in material compliance with our obligations arising out of each of the above referenced laws, regulations and authorizations. However, in light of the administrative proceedings for breach of quality standards brought since December 2004 by Anatel against TIM Celular and TIM Nordeste, we cannot provide any assurance that we are in full compliance with our quality of service obligations under the PCS authorizations. In fact, there are some administrative proceedings regarding noncompliance with quality goals and regulatory obligations that resulted in fees levied by Anatel against TIM Celular and TIM Nordeste. We cannot assure that we will be able to fully comply with each of the applicable laws, regulations and authorizations or that we will be able to comply with future changes in the laws and regulations to which we are subject. These regulatory developments or our failure to comply with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extensive government regulation of the telecommunications industry may limit our flexibility in responding to market conditions, competition and changes in our cost structure. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, including any changes that may occur during the period of our concession to provide telecommunication services. Anatel, which is the main telecommunications industry regulator in Brazil, regulates, among others: · industry policies and regulations; · licensing; 17 Table of Contents · rates and tariffs for telecommunications services; · competition; · telecommunications resource allocation; · service standards; · technical standards; · quality standards; · interconnection and settlement arrangements; and · universal service obligations. This extensive regulation and the conditions imposed by our authorization to provide telecommunication services may limit our flexibility in responding to market conditions, competition and changes in our cost structure. Our authorizations may be terminated by the Brazilian government under certain circumstances or we may not receive renewals of our authorizations. We operate our business under authorizations granted by the Brazilian government. As a result, we are obligated to maintain minimum quality and service standards, including targets for call completion rates, geographic coverage and voice channel traffic rates, user complaint rates and customer care call completion rates. Our ability to satisfy these standards, as well as others, may be affected by factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that, going forward, we will be able to comply with all of the requirements imposed on us by Anatel or the Brazilian government. Our failure to comply with these requirements may result in the imposition of fines or other government actions, including, in an extreme situation, the termination of our authorizations in the event of material non-compliance. Our radio frequency authorizations for the 800 MHz, 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands that we use to provide PCS services started to expire in September 2007 (under the Term of Authorization for the State of Paraná except the Londrina and Tamarana municipalities) and are renewable for one additional 15-year period, requiring payment at every two-year period equal to 2% of the prior year’s revenue net of taxes, by way of investment under the Basic and Alternative Service Plans, which are intended to increase telecommunications penetration throughout Brazil. Our radio frequency authorizations for the 2100 MHz band that we use to provide data services will expire in April 2023 and are renewable for one additional 15-year period, requiring payment in two-year intervals of the equivalent to 2% of the prior year’s service revenue net of tax, including interconnection and excluding value-added services revenues, by way of investment under the Basic and Alternative Service Plans. Any partial or total revocation of our authorizations or failure to receive renewal of such authorizations when they expire would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid technological changes and these changes could have a material adverse effect on our ability to provide competitive services. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, including, for example, the introduction of 3G and 4G mobile telephone services. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. We expect that new products and technologies will emerge and that existing products and technologies will be further developed. The advent of new products and technologies could have a variety of consequences for us. New products and technologies may reduce the price of our services by providing lower-cost alternatives, or they may also be superior to, and render obsolete, the products and services we offer and the technologies we use, thus requiring investment in new technology. If such changes occur, our most significant competitors in the future may be new participants in the market without the burden of an installed base of older equipment. The cost of upgrading our infrastructure and technology to continue to compete effectively could be significant. 18 Table of Contents In addition to competitive pressures, as a result of the increasing substitution of data services in place of traditional voice and SMS communications, our traditional voice and SMS markets also have been decreasing and are expected to continue to decrease due to increasing competition from alternative modes of telecommunications. We face increasing competition from non-traditional data services on new voice and messaging over the internet technologies, in particular over-the-top (OTT) applications, such as Skype, Google Talk, FaceTime and WhatsApp. These applications are often free of charge, other than for data usage, accessible via smartphones, tablets and computers and allow their users to have access to potentially unlimited messaging and voice services over the internet, bypassing more expensive traditional voice and messaging services such as short message service (SMS) which have historically been a source of significant revenues for mobile network operators such as us. With the growing use of smartphones, tablets and computers in Brazil, an increasing number of customers are using OTT application services in substitution for traditional voice or SMS communications. Historically, we have generated a substantial portion of our revenues from voice and SMS services, and the substitution of data services for these traditional voice and SMS volumes has had and is likely to continue to have a negative impact on our revenues and profitability. As a result of these and other factors, we face a mobile market in which price pressure has been increasing. All mobile network operators, including ourselves, are currently competing with OTT application providers who leverage on existing infrastructures and who generally do not operate capital-intensive business models associated with traditional mobile network operators like us. OTT application service providers have recently become more sophisticated competitors, and technological developments have led to a significant improvement in the quality of service, in particular speech quality, delivered via data communications applications such as OTT. In addition, players with strong brand capability and financial strengths, such as Apple, Google and Microsoft, have turned their attention to the provision of OTT application services. In the long term, if non-traditional mobile voice and data services or similar services continue to increase in popularity, as they are expected to do, and if we and other mobile network operators are not able to address this competition, this could contribute to further declines in ARPU and lower margins across many of our products and services, thereby having a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Due to the nature of our business we are exposed to numerous consumer claims and tax-related proceedings. Our business exposes us to a variety of lawsuits brought by or on behalf of consumers in the ordinary course of our operations as a mobile telecommunications provider in Brazil. We are subject to a number of public civil actions and class actions that have been brought against mobile telecommunications providers in Brazil relating principally to the expiration of prepaid usage credits, minimum term clauses, subscription fees and the use of land to install our network sites. These suits include claims contesting certain aspects of the fee structure of our prepaid and postpaid plans which are commonplace in the Brazilian telecommunications industry. In addition, federal, state and municipal tax authorities have questioned some tax procedures adopted by us, emphasizing the issues related to the offset of taxes by goodwill amortization as well as questions regarding the calculation of the basis for certain sector-specific contributions (FUST and FUNTTEL). As of December 31, 2012, we are subject to approximately 2,201 tax-related lawsuits and administrative proceedings with an aggregate value of approximately R$6.7 billion, including risks related to lawsuits classified as probable and possible loss. Although many of these claims relate to general business practices in the Brazilian mobile telecommunications industry, adverse determinations could have an adverse effect on our business practices and results of operations. The mobile industry, including our company, may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems and interfere with medical devices. Media and other reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and, possibly, expose wireless providers, including us, to litigation. We cannot assure you that further medical research 19 Table of Contents and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns. Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns or wireless companies, including us, could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation. The expansion of our network may be affected by these perceived risks if we experience problems in finding new sites, which in turn may delay the expansion and may affect the quality of our services. On July 2, 2002, Anatel published Resolution No. 303 that limits emission and exposure for fields with frequencies between 9 kHz and 300 GHz. In 2009, the Brazilian government enacted Law No. 11.934 establishing limits related to the magnetic and electromagnetic emissions to be as defined by the World Health Organization and that the operators had to maintain a record of the measurements of the levels of the magnetic and electromagnetic emissions of each transmitting station. The records must be five years old at most. The new index applied for the remuneration for the use of PCS networks may not be adequate. Since 2006, Anatel uses IST index (Índice de Serviços de Telecomunicações) to adjust Intelig for Fixed Switched Telephone Services (“STFC”) Concessionaires’ rates, Industrial Exploration of Dedicated Lines (“Exploração Industrial de Linha Dedicada” or “EILD”) and remuneration for the use of PCS, which substitutes the General Price Index, or the IGP-DI (the Índice Geral de Preços Disponibilidade Interna), an inflation index developed by the FGV, a private Brazilian foundation. Thus, the prices we may charge for our services may be indirectly impacted by this new index. Anatel begins to regulate the telecommunications industry based on a model that analyzes company costs based on a hypothetical company’s costs and other factors. If this new adjustment mechanism, or any other mechanism chosen by Anatel in the future, does not adequately reflect the true effect of inflation on our prices, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In 2012, the IST presented a much smaller variation than the IGP-DI. Anatel’s proposal regarding the consolidation of prices could have an adverse effect on our results. Anatel issued new regulations on interconnection rules from 1997 to 2005, some of which could have an adverse effect on our results. The rules that may adversely affect our results are (1) Anatel had defined clearly that the same PCS provider with different authorization areas may receive only one instead of two interconnection charges (“VU-M”) for long distance calls originated and terminated in their networks, and (2) if the free-market negotiation of prices for VU-M is not successful, Anatel is going to apply, in 2012, resolution 576 which contemplates a reduction of around 12% over the mobile interconnection rate and will apply resolution 600 from 2014. From February 2016 on, Anatel proposes a full allocated cost model by allocating the various service costs to determine a basic price. Final rules regarding these prices are still pending. These regulations can have an adverse effect on our results of operations because (1) our interconnection charges would likely drop significantly, thereby reducing our revenues, and (2) Anatel may allow more favorable prices for operators without significant market power. The introduction of MVNOs (Mobile Virtual Network Operators) in the Brazilian market could have an adverse effect on our results. In November, 2010, Anatel approved a resolution establishing the rules to permit the exploration of mobile services by means of a virtual network, based on commercial agreements between established operators and virtual operators. The rules established there could be two types of MVNOs. The first with a business model to provide low-cost mobile phone services by relying on business arrangements with traditional mobile operators to purchase minutes of use (MOU) for sale to their own customers. The second a full MVNO with an authorization that permitted the provision of services based on a sharing of infrastructure agreement with an established mobile operator. We were the first mobile operator to negotiate a contract with a virtual operator and we are an industry leader in the discussions with Anatel to develop this service. The first contract to be submitted for Anatel’s approval in December 2010 was for an authorization license in partnership with us. Our commercial partners have opted for the 20 Table of Contents authorization license, which carries the obligations and responsibilities for providing the service. The contracts are negotiated on a case by case basis with the intention to build a specific solution for every new virtual operator. The 4G auction rules brought an obligation to the acquiring operator to make a public offer of the purchased radiofrequency spectrum in the MVNO model. Increased competition from MVNOs could reduce our profitability and the profitability of the mobile telecommunications industry generally, reducing the capacity for investment and innovation. Such increased competition could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The effects of the recent global economic crisis could reduce purchases of our products and services and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Although the global economy recently has been showing signs of improvement, there is still uncertainty about the sustainability of any recovery. Unemployment levels continue to be high by historic standards, and consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news or declines in income or asset values, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. A loss of customers or a reduction in purchases by our current customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and may negatively affect our ability to meet our growth targets. Actual or perceived health risks or other problems relating to mobile handsets or transmission masts could lead to litigation or decreased mobile communications usage. The effects of, and any damage caused by, exposure to an electromagnetic field were and are the subject of careful evaluations by the international scientific community, but until now there is no scientific evidence of harmful effects on health. We cannot rule out that exposure to electromagnetic fields or other emissions originating from wireless handsets will not be identified as a health risk in the future. Our mobile communications business may be harmed as a result of these alleged health risks. For example, the perception of these health risks could result in a lower number of customers, reduced usage per customer or potential consumer liability. In addition, although Brazilian law already imposes strict limits in relation to transmission equipment, these concerns may cause regulators to impose greater restrictions on the construction of base station towers or other infrastructure, which may hinder the completion of network build-outs and the commercial availability of new services and may require additional investments. Measures adopted by Anatel aiming to ensure service quality could have an adverse effect on our results. In July 2012, with the express goal of improving the quality of mobile telecommunications services provided in Brazil, Anatel issued administrative injunctions suspending the selling and activation of new mobile service plans by three of the primary mobile providers, including Claro and TIM Celular. The suspension was lifted by Anatel only after these providers made formal commitments to undertake specific investments related to the expansion of their respective networks and improvement of their respective services. In November 2012, Anatel issued a new administrative injunction to suspend and stop our “Infinity Day" promotion, in which costumers from specific states were charged per day of use for voice (to TIM numbers and local fixed telephones). Anatem, in their preliminary analysis, considered the promotion to be potentially harmful to the quality of our mobile services. The injunction was revoked in January 2013, after Anatel determined that the promotion did not pose a risk to the provision of our mobile services. Although measures adopted by Anatel such as the aforementioned are likely to be temporary, such measures may, along with any new measures adopted in the future, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and may limit our ability to implement our business strategy. 21 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exerted significant influence over the Brazilian economy and continues to do so. This involvement, like local political and economic conditions, may have an adverse effect on our activities, our business, or the market prices of our shares and ADSs. The Brazilian government has frequently intervened in the Brazilian economy and occasionally made drastic changes in economic policy. To influence the course of Brazil’s economy, control inflation and implement other policies, the Brazilian government has taken various measures, including the use of wage and price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports and freezing bank accounts. We have no control over, and cannot predict what measures or policies the Brazilian government may take or adopt in the future. Our business, financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects and the trading price of our securities may be adversely affected by changes in government policies and regulations, as well as other factors, such as: · fluctuating exchange rates; · inflation; · interest rates; · monetary policy; · changes in tax regimes; · liquidity in domestic capital and credit markets; · fiscal policy; · political instability; · reductions in salaries or income levels; · rising unemployment rates; · tax policies (including those currently under consideration by the Brazilian Congress); · exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad; and · other political, diplomatic, social or economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty regarding changes by the Brazilian government to the policies or standards that affect these or other factors could contribute to economic uncertainty in Brazil and increase the volatility of the Brazilian securities market and of securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. Additionally, interruptions in the credit and other financial markets, and the deterioration of the Brazilian and/or global economic environment may, among other effects: (1) have a negative impact on demand, which may reduce sales, operating income and cash flow; (2) decrease consumption of our products; (3) restrict the availability of financing for our operations or investments, or for the refinancing of our debt in the future; (4) cause creditors to modify their credit risk policies and restrict our ability to negotiate any of the terms of our debt in the future; (5) cause the financial situation of our clients or suppliers to deteriorate or (6) decrease the value of our investments. Tax reforms may affect our prices. In 2010, the Brazilian government increased the tax on financial operations (IOF) rate on foreign investments in fixed income securities from 2% to 4%. This tax increase was intended to decrease speculation on Brazilian markets and reduce the volatility of appreciation of the real, reinforcing official efforts to discourage foreign investment by increasing transaction costs. In 2011, the IOF tax was expanded to tax loans entered into by banks and companies outside of Brazil with a maturity of less than 360 days. Additionally, the IOF tax rate related to exchange currency 22 Table of Contents increased from 0% to 0.38%, with certain exceptions. The IOF tax rate related to international loans entered into in Brazil by foreign banks and companies remained at 6% in 2012, however maturity was increased from 360 to 1800 days (approximately 5 years), and subsequently reduced to 720 days and later to 360 days in an effort to manage the flow of foreign capital entering Brazil through offshore loans. In 2013, the Brazilian government has maintained the IOF tax rate on international loans at 6% and the maturity at 360 days. Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations and the market prices of our shares or the ADSs. Historically, Brazil has experienced high rates of inflation. Inflation and some of the Brazilian government’s measures taken in an attempt to curb inflation have had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy generally. Inflation, policies adopted to contain inflationary pressures and uncertainties regarding possible future governmental intervention have contributed to economic uncertainty and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities market. Since the introduction of the real in 1994, Brazil’s inflation rate has been substantially lower than in previous periods. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado, or IGP-M), a general price inflation index developed by Fundação Getulio Vargas – FGV, the inflation rates in Brazil were 1.2% in 2005, 3.8% in 2006, 7.8% in 2007, 9.8% in 2008, negative 1.72% in 2009, 11.32% in 2010, 5.10% in 2011 and 7.81% in 2012. In addition, according to the National Extended Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA), published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística, or IBGE), the Brazilian consumer price inflation rates were, 5.7% in 2005, 3.1% in 2006, 4.6% in 2007, 5.9% in 2008, 4.3% in 2009, 5.9% in 2010, 6.5% in 2011 and 5.8% in 2012. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting availability of credit and reducing economic growth. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Inflation may increase in Brazil in the future. Periods of higher inflation may decrease the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products in Brazil and decreased net sales. Inflation is also likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, higher inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing our debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. Inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can, in addition, lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets. Any decline in our net sales or net income and any deterioration in our financial condition would also likely lead to a decline in the market price of our shares and the ADSs. Exchange rate movements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian currency has been devalued frequently over the past four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. For example, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar by 15.7% in 2001, 34.3% in 2002, 32% in 2008, 4.8% in 2011 and 8.94% in 2012. Notwithstanding the fact that the real has appreciated 11.5%, 8.7%, 25.4%, and 4.3% in 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010, respectively, there can be no guarantees as to whether the real will depreciate or appreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. Continuing appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Any such appreciation could reduce the competitiveness of our exports and adversely affect our net sales and our cash flows from exports. Devaluation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products which may result in the adoption of deflationary government policies. The sharp depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar may generate inflation and governmental measures to 23 Table of Contents fight possible inflationary outbreaks, including the increase in interest rates. Devaluations of the real would reduce the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on our common shares and ADSs and may also reduce the market value of such securities. Any such macroeconomic effects could adversely affect our net operating revenues and our overall financial performance. We acquire our equipment and handsets from global suppliers, the prices of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may result in a relative increase in the price of our equipment and handsets. Thus, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our need to make substantial dollar-denominated expenditures, particularly for imported components, equipment and handsets, that we have limited capacity to hedge. Fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business and the market prices of our shares or the ADSs. The Central Bank establishes the basic interest rate target (the SELIC rate) for the Brazilian financial system by reference to the level of economic growth of the Brazilian economy, the level of inflation and other economic indicators. The SELIC rate was revised, positively and negatively, during 2011 and was 11.00% as of December 31, 2011. In 2012, the Central Bank undertook a systematic easing of monetary policy in an effort to stimulate growth. The SELIC rate was cut to 10.50% on January 18, 2012, to 9.75% on March 7, 2012, to 9.00% on April 18, 2012, to 8.50% on May 30, 2012, and to 7.5% on August 29, 2012, and to 7.25% on October 10, 2012, where it remained as of December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012, all of our indebtedness was either denominated in reais and subject to Brazilian floating interest rates or subject to currency swaps that are tied to Brazilian floating interest rates, including R$1,987.3 million tied to the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo, or TJLP), R$1,787.7 million tied to the Interbank Deposit Certificate Rate (Certificado de Depositário Interbancário, or CDI rate), an interbank certificate of deposit rate that applies to our foreign currency swaps and some of our other real-denominated indebtedness, and R$137.4 million tied to UMIPCA (Índice de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo). At December 31, 2012, R$376.1 (after hedging) of our total consolidated indebtedness was subject to fixed interest rates. Any increase in the CDI rate or the TJLP rate may have an adverse impact on our financial expenses and our results of operations. Events in other countries may have a negative impact on the Brazilian economy and the market value of our securities. Economic conditions and markets in other countries, including United States, Latin American and other emerging market countries, may affect the Brazilian economy and the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from those in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in other emerging market countries could dampen investor enthusiasm for securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares and ADSs. In addition, the Brazilian economy is affected by international economic and market conditions generally, especially economic conditions in the United States. Share prices on the BM&FBOVESPA, the São Paulo Stock Exchange, for example, have historically been sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates and the behavior of the major U.S. stock indexes. An increase in the interest rates in other countries, especially the United States, may reduce global liquidity and investors’ interest in the Brazilian capital markets, adversely impacting the price of our shares and ADSs. We may be vulnerable to the current disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets. The global financial system has since mid-2007 experienced severe credit and liquidity conditions and disruptions leading to greater volatility. Since the fall of 2008, global financial markets deteriorated sharply and a number of major foreign financial institutions, including some of the largest global commercial banks, investment banks, mortgage lenders, mortgage guarantors and insurance companies, were experiencing significant difficulties including runs on their deposits and inadequate liquidity. 24 Table of Contents In an attempt to increase liquidity in the financial markets and prevent the failure of the financial system, various governments have intervened on an unprecedented scale. Although the global economy has recently been showing signs of recovery there is no assurance that such recovery will continue once the effects of various government stimulus efforts have worn off. In the long term, as a consequence, global investor confidence will likely remain low and credit will likely remain relatively lacking. Hence, additional volatility in the global financial markets may occur. However, additional volatility in the global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to access capital and liquidity on acceptable financial terms, and consequently on our operations. Furthermore, an economic downturn could negatively affect the financial stability of our customers, which could result in a general reduction in business activity and a consequent loss of income for us. Risks Relating to Our Commons Shares and the ADSs Holders of our ADSs are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings and may only vote through the Depositary. Under Brazilian law, only shareholders registered as such in our corporate books may attend shareholders’ meetings. All common shares underlying our ADSs are registered in the name of the depositary. A holder of ADSs, accordingly, is not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. Holders of our ADSs may exercise their limited voting rights with respect to our common shares represented by the ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs. There are practical limitations upon the ability of ADS holders to exercise their voting rights due to the additional steps involved in communicating with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ general meetings in certain newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our shares can exercise their right to vote at a shareholders’ general meeting by attending the meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of our ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ general meeting by mail from the ADR depositary following our notice to the ADR depositary requesting the ADR depositary to do so. To exercise their voting rights, ADS holders must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis. This voting process will take longer for ADS holders than for direct holders of our shares. We cannot assure you that holders will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that such holders can instruct the depositary to vote the shares underlying their respective ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out holder’s voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out your voting instructions. This means that holders may not be able to exercise their right to vote and may have no recourse if our shares held by such holders are not voted as requested. Holders of our ADSs or common shares in the United States may not be entitled to participate in future preemptive rights offerings. Under Brazilian law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we generally must grant our shareholders the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage. Rights to purchase shares in these circumstances are known as preemptive rights. We may not legally allow holders of our ADSs or common shares in the United States to exercise any preemptive rights in any future capital increase unless we file a registration statement with the SEC with respect to that future issuance of shares or the offering qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC and any other factors that we consider important to determine whether to file such a registration statement. We cannot assure holders of our ADSs or common shares in the United States that we will file a registration statement with the SEC to allow them to participate in a preemptive rights offering. As a result, the equity interest of those holders in us may be diluted proportionately. Judgments seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of our shares or ADSs in Brazil will be payable only in reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations with respect to our shares or ADSs, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may only be 25 Table of Contents satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under our shares or the ADSs. Volatility and lack of liquidity in the Brazilian stock market may substantially limit investors’ ability to sell shares at the price and time desired. Investment in securities traded in emerging markets such as Brazil often involves more risk than other world markets, given the track record of economic instability and constant changes. The Brazilian stock market is significantly smaller, less liquid and more concentrated, compared to the world’s major stock market. At December 31, 2012, BM&FBOVESPA’s market capitalization was approximately R$1.8 trillion (U.S.$873 billion). The Brazilian capital market shows significant concentration. The top five shares in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 43.0% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in the year ended December 31, 2012. These characteristics of the Brazilian capital market may substantially limit the ability of investors to sell shares at the desired price and time, which may materially and adversely affect share prices. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market value of our shares and ADSs. All of our shareholders have the ability, subject to applicable Brazilian laws and regulations and applicable securities laws in the relevant jurisdictions, to sell our shares and ADSs. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our shares or ADSs may have on the market price of our shares or ADSs. Future sales of substantial amounts of such shares or ADSs, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market prices of our shares or ADSs. Holders of ADSs or common shares could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADSs or common shares. According to Article 26 of Law No. 10,833 of December 29, 2003, which came into force on February 1, 2004, capital gains realized on the disposition of assets located in Brazil by non-Brazilian residents, whether or not to other non-residents and whether made outside or within Brazil, are subject to taxation in Brazil at a rate of 15%, or 25% if realized by investors resident in a “tax haven” jurisdiction (i.e., a country that does not impose any income tax or that imposes tax at a maximum rate of less than 20%). Although we believe that the ADSs will not fall within the definition of assets located in Brazil for the purposes of Law No. 10,833, considering the general and unclear scope of Law 10,833 and the absence of any judicial guidance in respect thereof, we are unable to predict whether such interpretation will ultimately prevail in the Brazilian courts. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” Gains realized by non-Brazilian holders on dispositions of common shares in Brazil or in transactions with Brazilian residents may be exempt from Brazilian income tax, or taxed at a rate of 15% or 25%, depending on the circumstances. Gains realized through transactions on Brazilian stock exchanges, if carried out in accordance with Resolution 2,689, of January 26, 2000, as amended, or “Resolution CMN 2,689” of the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional CMN, or “CMN”) as described below in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations—Taxation of Gains,” are exempt from the Brazilian income tax. Gains realized through transactions on Brazilian stock exchanges not in accordance with Resolution CMN 2,689 are subject to tax at a rate of 15% and also to withholding income tax at a rate of 0.005% (to offset the tax due on eventual capital gain). Gains realized through transactions with Brazilian residents or through transactions in Brazil not on the Brazilian stock exchanges and not in accordance with Resolution CMN 2,689 are subject to tax at a rate of 15%, or 25% if realized by investors resident in a tax haven jurisdiction. An exchange of ADSs for common shares risks loss of certain foreign currency remittance and Brazilian tax advantages. The ADSs benefit from the certificate of foreign capital registration, which permits J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, as depositary, to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to common shares into foreign currency, and to remit the proceeds abroad. Holders of ADSs who exchange their ADSs for common shares will then be entitled to rely on the depositary’s certificate of foreign capital registration for five business days from the date of exchange. Thereafter, 26 Table of Contents they will not be able to remit non-Brazilian currency abroad unless they obtain their own certificate of foreign capital registration, or unless they qualify under Resolution CMN 2,689, which entitles certain investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate certificates of registration. If holders of ADSs do not qualify under Resolution CMN 2,689, they will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment on distributions with respect to our common shares. There can be no assurance that the depositary’s certificate of registration or any certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by holders of ADSs will not be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, or that additional Brazilian law restrictions applicable to their investment in the ADSs may not be imposed in the future. If we raise additional capital through an offering of shares, investors’ holdings may be diluted. We may need to raise additional funds through a capital increase, public or private debt financings, or a new share issuance in connection with our business. Any additional capital raised through the issuance of shares or securities convertible into shares conducted on stock exchanges or through public offerings may be made, according to Brazilian law, without preemptive rights for the holders of our shares, which may result in the dilution of our holdings in our share capital. 