Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Risks related to our business We may fail to attract new members to our programs, services, and products, obtain renewals from existing members, or sell additional programs, services, and products. We derive the majority of our revenue from annual memberships for our programs, products, and services. Revenue growth depends on our ability to attract prospects to their first membership, sustain a high renewal rate of existing memberships, and sell additional products and services to existing members. This depends on our ability to understand and anticipate market and pricing trends and members’ needs, deliver high-quality and timely products and services to members, and deliver products and services that are more desirable than those of our competition. A significant and increasing part of our business focuses on talent management considerations within the organizations that we serve. Failure to achieve new member additions, to deliver acceptable member renewal rate levels, or to cross-sell additional memberships to existing members at the level we forecast, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. If we do not retain CEB members for the duration of their membership terms, we would suffer a loss of future revenue due to our service guarantee. We offer a service guarantee to most CEB research program members under which a member may request a refund of the membership fee. When available, refunds are provided on a proportionate basis relative to the unused period of the membership term. Requests for refunds by a significant number of our members could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. Failure to retain members at the level we forecast could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may have difficulty anticipating CEB member needs and demands, providing relevant support and advice, and developing new, profitable products and services. Our CEB programs, products, and services provide insights, information, advice, and tools to business executives and professionals. Our continuing and future success depends on our ability to anticipate changing market trends and adapt our products and services to the evolving needs of our members, including in new and developing industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies. The industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies that we serve undergo frequent changes, which present significant challenges to our ability to provide members and prospects with current and timely products and services. A significant and increasing part of our business focuses on talent management considerations within the organizations that we serve. If the new programs, products, and services we have developed are not timely or relevant, we may experience increased member turnover, lower new business and renewal bookings, and decreased cross-sales of additional products and services to existing members, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and future growth. We may fail to continue to effectively develop, validate, support, and sell talent acquisition and talent mobility tools and services in our SHL business or extend our sales of those tools and services to new markets and geographies. Our SHL business develops, validates, supports, and sells talent acquisition and talent mobility tools and services for pre-hire testing and post-hire employee development. These tools and services are based on the use of science and data to develop a talent strategy for clients that is linked to business results. Revenue growth in the SHL segment depends on our expertise, our ability to continue to develop predictive assessment intellectual property, our cloud-based SaaS platform, our proprietary database, our ability to measure results, and a continuing and growing interest in managing talent through analytics specifically and in human capital management generally. Failure to maintain our expertise, develop additional and validated predictive assessment and measurement tools, extend the adoption of SaaS and SaaS-related efforts as a mechanism for delivering our SHL products and services, expand our proprietary database, demonstrate success, or a slowing or uneven interest in managing talent through analytics either in our existing or developing markets, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not compete successfully and, as a result, may experience reduced or limited demand for our CEB programs, products, and services. The broad advisory services industry, as well as the human capital management sector, we operate in is a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry; numerous substitute products and services; shifting strategies and market positions including consolidation; many differentiators; and large global providers. We generally compete against traditional consulting firms, benchmarking firms, research and data analytic firms, training and development firms, trade associations, nonprofit organizations, and research and database companies, as well as providers of free content over the Internet and through other delivery channels. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are, have greater resources, and have the ability to grow and make transformative moves in the marketplace for human capital management solutions. We also compete against new entrants from the SaaS or data analytics industries, as well as against developing technologies such as social media, business intelligence software, and workflow software. To compete successfully and achieve our growth targets, we must successfully serve new and existing members with current products and services while developing and investing in new and competitive products and services for US and international members. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors, both in terms of the quality and scope of our products and services, and in terms of price, could materially and adversely affect our operating results and future growth. We may not compete successfully and, as a result, may experience reduced or limited demand for our talent acquisition and talent mobility tools and services. The talent acquisition and talent mobility business, which is within the larger human capital management industry, is a highly competitive and developing industry with numerous specialists. Our SHL business generally competes against role or geographic focused assessment companies, SaaS providers, professional/consulting services, and data analytics firms. To compete successfully and achieve our growth targets for the SHL business, we must continue to support and develop scientifically-developed, IP-based assessment and analytics solutions; maintain and grow our proprietary database; deliver demonstrable return on investment to clients; support our products and services globally; support our cloud-based technology; and continue to provide consulting and training to support our assessment products. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. 6 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. Our success is dependent on our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter negligent or intentional misappropriation of our intellectual property or confidential information, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights, particularly as we expand our business to new geographies, where the legal and regulatory framework related to the protection of intellectual property may be less robust than in the United States and Europe. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights, and we might not prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our programs, products, services, or talent acquisition and talent mobility tools could be adversely affected. In addition, we may be subject to infringement claims as we become more well-known to non-practicing entities, sometimes referred to as patent trolls, that acquire and assert patents against other entities. We may be exposed to litigation. As a publisher and distributor of original research, analysis, and surveys; a user of third-party content; an on-line content provider through our products and services; and a developer and provider of talent acquisition and talent mobility tools, we face potential liability for trademark and copyright infringement, discriminatory impact, and other claims based on our products and services. Any such litigation, regardless of the merits and whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could subject us to reputational harm and have a material adverse affect on our operating results. In addition, certain of our measurement and assessment products may carry risks of litigation for claims of non-compliance with employment laws related to hiring and promotion. To the extent clients choose not to purchase these products, or to the extent these claims are successful, these obligations could adversely affect our operating results. We may experience confusion about our brand. Market perceptions of our brand affect our reputation in the marketplace and our ability to attract and retain members and clients. In 2012, we rebranded the company, which involved changing our master brand as well as several of our sub-brands for specific lines of business and offerings across both the parent company and some subsidiaries, an effort that is continuing in 2013. We also completed our acquisition of SHL and are in the process of integrating the brand of the SHL-related products and services in order to operate with a unified brand strategy. If our members and clients, or prospective members or clients, are confused by our brand strategy, or if we do not effectively transfer brand equity from our legacy brands, or if our efforts to extend our brand equity from these various brands into existing or target markets are unsuccessful, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. Continuing uncertainty in the global economy and the financial markets, particularly in Europe and emerging markets and in the financial services sector, as well as the current political situation in the United States, could adversely impact our business, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. Continuing global economic and financial market uncertainty, as well as the ongoing impact of the recent recession, particularly in Europe, and in the financial services sector, as well as the current political situation in the United States, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. These conditions also could materially and adversely impact our existing and prospective members and clients, vendors, business partners, and growth prospects. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or adapt to uncertain or changing economic, financial, market, and government conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to these changes, and our business could be materially and adversely affected. While we market and sell our products and services throughout the year, a significant percentage of our new business and renewal bookings within CEB historically have taken place in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Significant economic uncertainty or political dysfunction during these time periods could have a disproportionately adverse affect on our current and future operating results. In addition, the continuing global economic uncertainty and slowing growth could reduce the overall demand for professional information services and human capital management resources as global companies and government entities continue to manage purchasing, departmental budgets, company-wide discretionary spending; and reduce or manage their focus on talent management solutions. At December 31, 2012, approximately 20% of the CEB segment Contract Value was attributable to the financial services sector. Instability in the economy or in the financial services sector, government dysfunction, and could adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to a number of risks as a US government contractor, which could harm our reputation, result in fines or penalties against us and/or adversely impact our financial condition. Our PDRI products, as well as our membership products tailored for the public sector, provide services to US government agencies and therefore expose us to risks and added costs associated with government contracting, as well as risks of doing business with the federal government more generally. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could result in contract terminations, suspension or debarment from contracting with the US government, civil fines and damages, and criminal prosecution and penalties, any of which could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those anticipated. In addition, sequestration under the Budget Control Act of 2011, a government shutdown, or other dysfunction could result in contract terminations and slowing sales, which could adversely affect our operating results. US government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, or DCAA, routinely audit our US government contracts and contractors’ administration processes and systems. An unfavorable outcome to an audit by the DCAA or another agency could cause our operating results to differ materially from those anticipated. If an investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or debarment from doing business with the US government. In addition, we would suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Each of these factors could cause actual operating results to differ materially from those anticipated. In addition, a reduction in government spending could adversely affect our operating results. Risks related to our operations Our acquisition of SHL, as well as our other smaller acquisitions, involve risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our existing operations and the SHL acquisition, as well as our smaller acquisitions, may not achieve their anticipated results. In acquiring SHL, we expect that we would be able to realize various benefits, including, among other things, new product development and product enhancements, cross-selling and revenue enhancement opportunities, geographic expansion, cost savings, and operating efficiencies. 7 Table of Contents The SHL acquisition brings us capabilities and intellectual properties that address gaps in member and client needs and workflows in the human capital management sector. The acquisition involves financial, operational, human resources, business, legal, and regulatory risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our ongoing operations, including difficulties in accurately valuing the SHL business; difficulties and costs of integrating and maintaining the operations, personnel, technologies, products, vendors, and information systems of SHL; assumption of potential unknown risks and liabilities; difficulties achieving the target synergies, efficiencies, and cost savings; more cyclicality than exists in our CEB products and services; failure to retain key personnel and members; entry into and ongoing management of new geographical or product markets; exposure under acquisition-related agreements; the diversion of financial and management resources; the integration of a different set of products and services into our existing operations; and the integration of a new business segment while we are continuing to operate our existing business. As a result, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits of the SHL acquisition, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. The SHL acquisition involves additional costs and has resulted in increased debt. It could also result in adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense, and the recording of amortization of amounts related to purchased intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact our operating results. We may be unable to integrate the operations of SHL in the manner expected. Our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the SHL acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether SHL can be integrated in an efficient, effective, and timely manner with our historical business. It is possible that the integration process could take longer than anticipated and could result in the loss of valuable employees; brand confusion; reduced employee morale and engagement; the disruption of our businesses, processes, and systems; and inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies, and compensation arrangements; any of which could adversely affect our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition as and when expected or at all. We may have difficulty effectively addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies between the historical CEB business and the SHL business. In January 2011, SHL acquired PreVisor Inc., and the integration of that business could in turn affect the timing, efficiency, and effectiveness of our integration of the broader SHL business. In 2013, we will be integrating certain CEB Valtera products into our SHL segment, and the integration of that business, which we acquired in 2012, could in turn affect the timing, efficiency, and effectiveness of our integration of the broader SHL business as well as the CEB Valtera business. In addition, we may have difficulty effectively integrating information technology platforms, systems, and processes, and the IT integration may be more expensive and more difficult than we anticipated. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs or decreases in the amount of expected revenue and efficiencies from the SHL acquisition and could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. Our international operations, which have increased significantly with our acquisition of SHL, involve special risks. Although we have had operations outside of the United States for a number of years, our acquisition of SHL has significantly expanded our non-US operations. We expect to continue our international expansion, and our international revenue is expected to account for an increasing portion of our revenue in the future. Our international operations, particularly with the acquisition and ongoing integration of SHL, involve risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our US operations, including: • difficulties in developing products, services, and technology tailored to the needs of members and clients around the world, including in emerging markets; • difficulties in serving members and clients around the world, including in emerging markets; • different employment laws and rules and related social and cultural factors that could result in cyclical fluctuations in use and revenue; • reliance on distributors and other third parties for sales and support of our SHL products; • cultural and language differences; • limited recognition of the “CEB” and “SHL” brands; • different regulatory and compliance requirements, including in the areas of privacy and data protection, anti-bribery and anti-corruption, and trade sanctions, and other barriers to conducting business; • greater difficulties in managing our operations outside of the US; • different or less stable political, operating, and economic environments and market fluctuations; • civil disturbances or other catastrophic events that reduce business activity; • higher operating costs; • lower operating margins; • differing accounting principles and standards; • currency fluctuations between the US dollar and foreign currencies that could adversely affect financial and operating results; and • restrictions on or adverse tax consequences from the repatriation of earnings and trapped foreign losses. Because significant international expansion occurred as a result of a single acquisition that was completed in a relatively short period of time in 2012, we are still in the process of integrating our US and non-US management, operating activities, personnel, compliance, and information technology framework. If we are not able to efficiently adapt to or effectively manage our business in markets outside of the United States, our business prospects and operating results could be adversely affected. We may fail to adequately operate, maintain, develop, and protect our information technology infrastructure. We use our information technology infrastructure to serve our global membership and clients and support our employees and operations. Our failure to make the capital infrastructure expenditures and improvements necessary to remain technologically advanced, to meet our internal operational and business needs, including the integration of the CEB and SHL infrastructures, and to address information security, privacy, data management, business continuity, and other issues related to our infrastructure as well as with the infrastructure of our vendors, could adversely affect our development of new products and services, delivery of existing products and services, operating results, future performance, and reputation. Our failure to optimize or protect our information technology infrastructure could result in interruptions to our business and operations, which could materially affect our operating results, future growth, and reputation. 8 Table of Contents We may fail to adequately protect our member and client data. In the normal course of operations, we collect and maintain confidential and sensitive data, including personal information, from our members and clients. We rely on a complex network of technical safeguards and internal controls to protect this data. Our failure to adequately protect this data, including our failure to continue to improve our internal controls or our failure to prevent the misuse of or misappropriation of member and client data could result in data loss, corruption, or breach. If a data loss, corruption, or breach occurs, we could be exposed to litigation from our members and clients, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose existing and have difficulty attracting new members and clients, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of data processed and stored on those systems and networks. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of administrative, technical, and physical safeguards, including employee training; technical security controls; comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems; and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to various threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromise of confidential information; improper use of our systems and networks; manipulation and destruction of data; defective products; production downtimes; and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness, and operating results. Interruptions in service at our data centers could adversely affect our business. CEB delivers its programs, products, and services to members and clients primarily through online means. We have implemented plans and procedures to address service interruptions in each of our product infrastructures. However, we could experience natural disasters, power loss, cyber attacks, operator error, or similar events, which could cause an interruption in service or damage to our facilities and/or data. Our disaster recovery and business continuity plans and procedures may address many of the potential service interruptions, but these safeguards may not be adequate to prevent interruptions from certain causes or unforeseen types of events. Such service interruptions could prevent us from providing services to our members and clients or cause us to violate service level agreements with our members, which could adversely affect our ability to retain existing members and clients and attract new members and clients. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for uncollectible revenue, income taxes, and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If there are any material weaknesses in disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting of SHL, this could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information and other material public disclosures. Our acquisition of SHL significantly expanded our business operations. While we have completed numerous acquisitions in the past, the SHL acquisition is significantly larger than any of those prior acquisitions. Accordingly, SHL will have a much more significant impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The integration of acquisitions includes ensuring that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting effectively apply to and address the operations of newly acquired businesses. While we have made every effort to thoroughly understand SHL’s processes, our integration and evaluation of those processes is ongoing, and there can be no assurance that we will not encounter operational and financial reporting difficulties impacting our controls and procedures as we integrate the SHL business. As a result, and particularly in light of the broad geographic scope of the SHL business and the fact that SHL was not a public reporting company in the United States subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, we may be required to modify our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting to accommodate the newly acquired operations, and we may also be required to remediate any historic material weaknesses or deficiencies that we may discover at SHL, which was not included in our Sarbanes Oxley 404 Report for 2012. Our review and evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting of SHL will take time and require additional expense. In addition, if they are not effective on a timely basis, this could adversely affect our business, as well as our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information or other material public information. This also could adversely affect investors’ and the market’s perception of our company. The acquisition of SHL may not be accretive to earnings, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The acquisition of SHL may not be accretive to earnings per share in 2013, which will be the first full year following completion of the acquisition. This is based on preliminary estimates that are subject to change. We could encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the benefits anticipated from the acquisition on a timely basis or at all or be subject to other factors, and that could adversely affect preliminary estimates. Any of these factors could cause a decrease in our earnings per share or decrease or delay the accretive effect of the acquisition. We expect to continue to incur acquisition-related costs in connection with the SHL acquisition. We expect to continue to incur expenses related to combining the operations of SHL into CEB. Although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of SHL into CEB will offset the incremental transaction and acquisition-related costs over time, the combined company may not achieve this net benefit in the near term, or at all. We may be subject to future impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, our acquisitions have been accounted for under the acquisition method. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. At December 31, 2012, the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets recorded in acquisitions totaled $806.5 million and represented 61% of our total assets of approximately $1.3 billion. We apply a fair value test to evaluate goodwill for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter of each year, and between these periods if events occur or circumstances change which suggest that the goodwill or intangible assets should be evaluated. Changes that might suggest that we perform an interim impairment test could include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization, changes in estimated future cash flows, and changes in rates of growth in our industry or in either of our business segments. The potential for goodwill impairment is increased during a period of economic uncertainty. To the extent we acquire a company at a negotiated price that reflects, at least in part, anticipated future performance, subsequent market conditions may result in the acquired business performing at a lower level than was anticipated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these changes would reduce our operating results and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. A slowing recovery or new recession in the United States, a slow recovery or further recession in Europe, and slowing growth in the global economy may result in declining performance that would require us to examine our goodwill for potential additional impairment. 9 Table of Contents In carrying out a test for potential impairment, when available and as appropriate, we use a comparison between our estimate of fair value using discounted cash flows (the income approach) and market multiples derived from a set of competitors with comparable market characteristics (a market approach). Impairment assessment inherently involves management judgments as to the assumptions used to project amounts included in the valuation process and as to anticipated future market conditions and their potential effect on future performance. Changes in assumptions or estimates can materially affect the determination of fair value, and assumptions and estimates are subject to risks and uncertainties, including many over which we have little or no control. If we determine, based on our assumptions, judgments, estimates and projections, that no impairment exists as of a specific date, and if future events turn out to be materially less favorable than what we assumed or estimated in assessing fair value when we tested for impairment, we may be required at a future date (either as part of a subsequent annual evaluation or on an interim basis) to re-evaluate fair value and to recognize an impairment at that time and write down the carrying value of our goodwill and/or intangible assets. Iconoculture sales bookings for the first six months of 2012 were lower than amounts previously estimated. Lower sales bookings may result in a decrease in revenue and cash flows from operations. The fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 4% at June 30, 2012 and by less than 1% at October 1, 2012 and, thus, the goodwill and the carrying value of intangible assets of that reporting unit may be at risk for future impairment. To the extent the value of the goodwill or other intangible assets becomes impaired in the future; we will be required to incur non-cash charges relating to such impairment that will be recorded in our consolidated statements of operations. These charges could be material and could reduce our reported earnings significantly and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We also are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional tax against us. Our acquisition of SHL, which is based in the United Kingdom and has entities in more than 20 countries, subjects us to additional tax regimes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation, or the effects of a change in tax policy in the United States or in any of the numerous international jurisdictions where we do business, could have a material effect on our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We are subject to foreign currency risk and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. Our operating results are subject to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Prices for CEB segment programs, products, and services currently are denominated primarily in US dollars, even when sold outside the United States, although we began offering foreign currency billing to certain members outside of the United States in 2012. Prices for SHL segment tools and services are primarily denominated in the local currency of the SHL client. SHL clients are primarily located in the United Kingdom, the United States, and other parts of Europe and Asia. Many of the costs associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies, and these costs have increased as a result of the SHL acquisition. We use financial instruments, primarily cash flow hedging instruments, to mitigate a portion of these risks related to the CEB segment operations in the United Kingdom. The maximum length of time of these hedging contracts is 12 months. Although we believe that our foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, they may only partially offset any adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially if these changes are extreme and occur over a short period of time. Our leverage could adversely affect our financial condition or operating flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our total consolidated debt at December 31, 2012 was $545 million, consisting of $275 million under the Term Loan A Facility, $250 million under the Term Loan B Facility, and $20 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. In addition, we had $72.6 million of undrawn availability under the Revolving Credit Facility (after reduction of availability to cover $7.4 million of outstanding letters of credit) at December 31, 2012. The $20 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility was repaid in January 2013. Prior to the SHL acquisition, we historically had no significant outstanding indebtedness or any need to borrow significant funds. Accordingly, the negative and affirmative covenants in a typical bank debt facility, such as our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, have not imposed significant restrictions on the operation of our business. We also have not been required to devote any material portion of our cash flows from operations to debt service payments (including both interest and principal amortization). Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt, which may result in defaults; • resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, which could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit the lenders under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities to foreclose on our assets securing such debt; • subjecting us to the risk of increased sensitivity to interest rate increases in our outstanding indebtedness, which has a variable rate of interest, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly; • reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged; and • increasing our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. 10 Table of Contents We may incur significant additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our existing indebtedness. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities limit, but do not prohibit, us from incurring additional indebtedness. This may include additional indebtedness under certain circumstances that may also be guaranteed by our domestic subsidiaries that guarantee our obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our ability to incur additional indebtedness may have the effect of reducing the amounts available to pay amounts due with respect to our indebtedness. If we incur new debt or other liabilities, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our indebtedness, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our payment obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business and economic conditions, and other factors. We are not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the industries in which we operate and competitive pressures. Our cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and to meet our other obligations. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from pursuing any of these alternatives. In the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt before maturity or as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or refinance our existing debt at all. If interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to the refinanced debt would increase. Furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could be adversely affected. The covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The Senior Secured Credit Facilities include negative covenants that may, subject to exceptions, limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • create, incur, assume, or suffer to exist liens; • make investments and loans; • create, incur, assume, or suffer to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; • engage in mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, sale-leasebacks, and other asset sales and dispositions; • pay dividends or redeem, or repurchase our capital stock, except in certain specified circumstances; • alter the business that we and our subsidiaries conduct; • engage in certain transactions with officers, directors, and affiliates; • prepay, redeem or purchase other indebtedness; • enter into certain burdensome agreements; and • make material changes to accounting and reporting practices. In addition, the Senior Secured Credit Facilities include financial covenants that require us to maintain a maximum net leverage ratio. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in us being unable to comply with certain covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, our debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities would be in default and could be accelerated and could permit the lenders to foreclose on our assets securing the debt thereunder. If the indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. If our debt is in default for any reason, our cash flows, operating results, or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Risks related to our people We may be unable to retain key personnel, recruit highly skilled management and employees, or effectively plan for succession, including within the recently acquired SHL business. Our continued and future success depends on our ability to retain key personnel, including senior leaders, skilled sales and research personnel, and the more than 200 industrial and organizational psychologists who are a critical component of our SHL business; and to hire, train, and retain highly skilled management and employees. We experience intense competition for our personnel from competitors and other businesses wherever we do business. In addition, current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles as a result of the SHL acquisition. In an effort to reduce risk, we are working to clarify roles and responsibilities in the expanded organization, and we also have employer protection agreements with senior staff that restrict them from competing with and soliciting employees from us following their employment. If we fail to retain key personnel, or to attract, train, and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled management and employees in the future, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected, and the morale and productivity of our workforce in the near term could be disrupted. Effective succession planning is also a key factor for our long-term success. Our failure to enable the effective transfer of knowledge and facilitate smooth transitions with regard to key employees, including within the recently acquired SHL business, could adversely affect our long-term strategic planning and execution and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. Several members of the SHL leadership team at the time of the acquisition, including the CEO and CFO, have transitioned or will be transitioning out of their roles, and the operational transition and knowledge transfer for these roles to experienced management is underway. If we fail to enable the effective transfer of knowledge and facilitate smooth transitions for these and other key personnel, the operating results and future growth for our business could be adversely affected, and the morale and productivity of the workforce could be disrupted. 11 Table of Contents We rely on our executive officers, corporate leadership team, and the leaders of our geographic regions and departments for the success of our business. We rely on our executive officers, our corporate leadership team, and the leaders of our geographic regions and departments to manage our operations. Given the range of our products and services, the scale of our operations, and our geographic scope, particularly following the SHL acquisition, these executives and senior managers must have a thorough understanding of our product and service offerings and operations, as well as the skills and experience necessary to manage a large organization in diverse geographic locations. If one or more members of our management team leaves and we cannot replace them with suitable candidates quickly or at all, or if members of our management team are not able to demonstrate the skills necessary in a global business, we could experience difficulty in managing our business properly. This could harm our business prospects, client relationships, employee morale, and operating results. We may be unable to extend and maintain our corporate culture, which is a critical part of our success, as we expand geographically and integrate SHL into our existing business. We believe that a critical contributor to our success to date has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters product innovation, teamwork, strong member support and service, and employee morale. As we expand, including from the integration of employees from SHL and other businesses that we acquire, as well as by opening offices in new geographies, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture, which could adversely affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel and otherwise adversely affect our future success, business prospects, and client relationships. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 