ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves multiple risks and substantial uncertainty. The following discussion addresses the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ from expectations in material ways. In evaluating our business, investors should pay particular attention to the risks and uncertainties described below and in other sections of this report and in our subsequent filings with the SEC. We depend on sales of a relatively small number of our solutions for a substantial majority of our revenues, and decreased demand for any of those solutions could substantially harm our revenues and results of operations. We generated 95% of our total revenues for 2009 from four solutions—Concur Travel & Expense, Concur Expense, Concur ExpenseLink and Concur Cliqbook Travel. We expect these solutions to continue to constitute a large but decreasing percentage of our total revenues as we continue to expand our service offerings. Our financial performance and business outlook depends on continued market acceptance of these solutions. If customers reduce or cancel their subscriptions for our solutions due to economic conditions or because our competitors (some of which have substantially greater resources than we do) develop new offerings, or if we do not keep up with technological advancements in services and software platforms, delivery models or product features, our revenues could decline significantly. There can be no assurance that our solutions will continue to maintain current levels of market penetration or that we will maintain current levels of revenues from sales of these solutions in the future. If the market for integrated travel and expense services does not grow as we expect it to, our business will be harmed. The market for integrated travel and expense services is developing, and it is not certain whether these services will achieve market acceptance and sustain high demand. Our future profits depend on increasing customer subscriptions for integrated travel and expense services. The market for integrated travel and expense services may not grow, or may shrink. Our future financial performance and revenue growth depend on the willingness of enterprise customers to use integrated travel and expense services. Many enterprises have internal resources and processes to manage corporate travel and expenses, so they may not perceive the benefit of our external integrated travel and expense management services. Privacy concerns and transition costs are also factors that may affect an enterprise’s decision to subscribe to an external solution. If enterprises do not value the benefit of integrated travel and expense services, then the market for these services will not develop at the rate that we anticipate. Unfavorable economic conditions may continue or worsen, affecting our business and financial performance. Our financial performance depends on the state of the economy, which deteriorated in the recent broad recession, and which may which may deteriorate more in the future. Lower levels of economic activity result in declines in corporate spending on travel, fewer travel and expense transactions, lower information technology spending, and deceased revenue for us. The core factors that affect customer usage and therefore our subscription revenue are unemployment, recession-driven attrition through business failure or acquisition, and travel budget 12 Table of Contents cutbacks. The 2008 – 2009 contraction in the global economy appears to be lingering, and continuing or worsening economic conditions may result in increased expenses for labor, energy, equipment and facilities, as well as increased volatility of our stock price and foreign exchange rates, and impairment of goodwill and other assets. If unfavorable economic conditions continue or worsen, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition from companies with longer operating histories and greater resources than we have, and our business will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. Our principal direct competition comes from independent vendors of corporate travel and expense management software and services, as well as financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors that sell products similar to ours along with their suites of other products and services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories; more financial, technical, marketing and other resources; greater name recognition and more customers for their products and services than we do. Some of our competitors, particularly major financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, as well as with systems integrators and other vendors and service providers. These competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, or better withstand economic downturns. We also face indirect competition from potential customers’ internal development efforts and, at times, have to overcome their reluctance to move away from existing paper-based systems. In addition, we anticipate the entrance of new competitors in the future. This competitive landscape makes it difficult for us to achieve our objective of increasing the number of our customers and expanding our role in the travel supply chain. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and change in market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because we depend upon strategic relationships with third parties, such as American Express, our revenues could decline if we do not sustain and develop these relationships. We depend on strategic reseller and referral relationships to offer products and services to a larger customer base than we can reach through our current direct sales, telesales and internal marketing efforts. Some of our strategic relationships are in early stages of operation and, accordingly, it is uncertain whether these third parties will be able to market our products and services successfully or provide the volume and quality of orders and lead referrals that we currently expect. In order to expand our market presence and broaden our distribution capacity, in 2008 we entered into a strategic referral relationship with American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc., and we realized our first customer additions as a result of that relationship in 2009. Our success depends in part on the ultimate success of our strategic reseller and referral partners and their ability to market our products and services successfully. Some of these third parties have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors. Further, many of our strategic partners have multiple strategic relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their businesses. Our strategic partners may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our products or services. Our strategic partners also may interfere with our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. Further, unfavorable global economic conditions may hurt our strategic partners, making them less effective or causing them to modify or cancel their relationships with us. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships or enter into new ones, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sales and marketing of our products and services, which would increase our costs and decrease our earnings. 13 Table of Contents Our future growth and financial performance depends on our ability to grow our subscription services. Subscription services represented 97% of our total revenues for 2009, and we expect it to represent a large majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we believe that our future growth and financial performance depend upon growth of our subscription services, and we have invested in infrastructure, operations and strategic relationships to support on-demand subscription services, which represent a significant departure from traditional software delivery strategies. Our costs of providing subscription services are relatively fixed in the short term, so we may not be able to adjust expenses quickly enough to offset slowdowns in subscription sales. In addition, any delays in deployment may prevent us from recognizing subscription revenue for indeterminate periods of time, even when we have already incurred costs relating to the deployment of our subscription services. Further, we may experience unanticipated increases in costs associated with providing our subscription services and software maintenance services to customers over the term of our customer contracts as a result of inaccurate internal cost projections or other factors, which may harm our operating results. If our customers cannot make payments or gain access to credit to make payments, they may be forced to cancel existing subscriptions for our products and services. Some of our sales contracts contain cancellation provisions and, if cancelled, could result in us recognizing substantially less revenue than the aggregate value of those contracts over their terms. If a customer cancels or otherwise seeks to terminate a subscription or maintenance agreement prior to the end of its term, or if we are unable to renew such an agreement at the end of its term, our operating results in future periods could be substantially harmed. We depend on our relationships with travel suppliers, so any adverse changes in these relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. An important component of our business success is our ability to maintain and develop relationships with travel suppliers. Adverse changes in existing relationships, including any impact of the economic recession on the businesses of those suppliers, could reduce the amount, quality and breadth of attractively priced travel products and services that we are able to offer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our customers have concerns over the scalability or security of our products, they might discontinue buying them and our revenues will decline. If customers believe that our subscription services offerings are not sufficiently scalable, do not provide adequate security for the dissemination of information over the Internet or corporate extranets, or are otherwise inadequate for Internet or extranet use or if, for any other reason, our customers decide not to accept our subscription services for use, our business will be harmed. As part of our subscription services, we receive credit card, travel booking, employee, purchasing, supplier and other financial and accounting data, through the Internet or extranets and there can be no assurance that this information will not be subject to computer break-ins, theft and other improper activity that could jeopardize the security of information handled by our products. Any such lapse in security could expose us to litigation, loss of customers, damage to our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, any person who circumvents our security measures could steal proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations. We incur significant costs to protect against security breaches, and may incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Customers’ concerns about security could deter them from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve confidential information, so our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our business and financial results. Privacy concerns could result in regulatory changes that may harm our business. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and many other countries where we operate. The United States and many other countries have imposed restrictions and requirements on the use of 14 Table of Contents personal information by those collecting such information. Changes to law or regulations affecting privacy, if applicable to our business, could impose additional costs and liability on us and could limit our use and disclosure of such information. If we were required to change our business activities or revise or eliminate services, our business could be harmed. Interruption of our operations could prevent us from delivering our products and services to our customers, which could significantly harm our business. Because our business is primarily conducted over the Internet, it depends on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our computer equipment, offices and hosting facilities against damage from earthquake, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other events. There can be no assurance that our disaster preparedness will prevent significant interruption of our operations. In addition, we engage third party facility providers for our Web hosting facilities and related infrastructure that is essential for our subscription services. Our service to customers could be interrupted in the event of a natural disaster, or by a hosting provider decision to close a facility or terminate operations, or by other unanticipated problems. Similarly, we use third-party telecommunications providers for Internet and other telecommunication services. Any of these third-party providers may fail to perform their obligations adequately, causing business interruption or system damage that could reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions, or decrease our renewal rates. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate in future periods, we may fail to meet expectations of investors and public market analysts or we may be affected by other adverse factors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile or to decline. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and if they fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results include: • general economic and market conditions; • the evolving demand for our solutions; • spending decisions by our customers and prospective customers; • our ability to manage expenses; • the timing of new product releases; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of large contracts; • changes in mix of our offerings; • the mix of sales channels through which our solutions are sold; • costs of developing new products and enhancements; • our ability to adequately provide software solutions on-demand; and • global political conditions. Our acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies, products, or technologies may not yield expected benefits. We have acquired and invested in other companies from time to time, and we may acquire or investment in other companies, products or technologies in the future. In August 2009 we acquired Etap-On-Line, a provider of 15 Table of Contents business and travel expense management solutions based in Paris, France. This acquisition expands our presence in the European market and reflects a greater commitment to foreign sales and operations. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or investments to the extent that we anticipate, or at all. We may incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If any acquisition or investment is not perceived as ultimately improving our financial condition and results of operations, our stock price may decline. In addition, we may incur non-cash amortization charges from our acquisition of Etap-On-Line which could harm our future operating results. The value of acquired businesses or investments may decline due to market conditions or adverse developments in the acquired business, as a result of factors such as the performance of the business relative to its business plan, revenue and cost trends its liquidity and cash position, and market acceptance of its products. Our integration of a recent acquisition may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For us to realize the benefits of our recent acquisition of Etap-On-Line, we must successfully integrate the acquired business with ours. Some of the challenges to successful integration include: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products; • diversion of management attention from business operations and strategy; • commitment of resources that are needed in other parts of our business; • potential loss of key employees; and • potential litigation by third parties, such as claims related to intellectual property or other assets acquired or liabilities assumed. The growth of the international component of our business subjects us to risks associated with foreign operations. Our international operations are an increasingly important part of our business. Revenues from customers outside the United States represented 10% of total revenues for 2009, and we expect international revenues to increase due to our acquisition of Etap-On-Line. Our international operations are subject to many difficulties and incremental costs, including: • costs to customize our products for foreign markets; • foreign currency exchange rate risk; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • different pricing environments; • longer sales cycles; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • adverse tax consequences; • potentially weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing our rights abroad; and • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to expand into international markets will depend on our ability to develop and support solutions that incorporate the tax laws, accounting practices and currencies of applicable countries. Our international operations also involve foreign currency risks for us. Most of our revenues are denominated in United States dollars, but we believe that an increasing portion of our revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies. Unfavorable economic conditions have been accompanied by increased foreign currency exchange rate volatility. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging activities and, therefore, our international revenues and expenses are currently subject to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. Our international operations also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our services and products or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries might impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business in international markets. We intend to continue to expand our global sales and marketing activities and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We are in the early stages of developing our distribution channels in markets outside the United States. We may not be able to attract and retain distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and will occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investor views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We have in the past experienced a material weakness in our internal controls, and we may discover material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required controls could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in the trading price of our stock. Our lengthy sales cycle could adversely affect our financial results. Our sales cycle, which is the time between initial contact with a potential customer and the ultimate sale, is often lengthy and unpredictable. Our potential customers typically commit significant resources to an evaluation of available alternatives and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them about the value of our offerings. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales. In addition, customers may delay their purchases from one quarter to another as they wait for new product enhancements. Customers may delay their purchases for even longer periods due to their inability to assess and 17 Table of Contents forecast future business activity, impaired purchasing ability or other economic factors. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, sales in a particular quarter or year could harm our business and could cause our operating results to vary significantly. We may not successfully develop or introduce new products or enhancements to existing products, or successfully integrate acquired products and services with our offerings, and as a result we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers and our revenues may suffer. Our future financial performance and revenue growth depends upon the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our software solutions and on our ability to integrate products and services that we acquire into our existing and future solutions. Our business could be harmed if we fail to deliver enhancements to our solutions that meet customer needs. We experience delays in the planned release dates of enhancements to our solutions and we have discovered errors in new releases after their introduction. Either situation could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our products and services, or customer claims, including, among other things, warranty claims against us, any of which could harm our business. If we do not deliver new product versions, upgrades or other enhancements to existing products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business will be harmed. We are also continually seeking to develop new offerings. However, we remain subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, including unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in product introduction and acceptance or significantly increased costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new solutions successfully, or to introduce and gain market acceptance of new solutions in a timely manner. If our products and services do not keep pace with technological change, our sales could decline and our business could be harmed. We must continually modify and enhance our software solutions to keep pace with changes in hardware and software platforms, database technology, electronic commerce technical standards and other items. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions, or modifications by vendors of operating systems, back-office applications and browsers and other Internet-related applications, could harm our business. We rely on third-party software and services that may be difficult to replace. We license or purchase software and services provided by third parties in order to offer some of our services and software offerings. Such third-party software and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss or inability to maintain our rights to use any of these software or services could result in delays in the sale of our services or software offerings until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated, which could harm our business. Our stock price has experienced high volatility, may continue to be volatile and may decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may do so in the future, as a result of many factors. In particular, the stock market as a whole recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies’ operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate include: • general and industry-specific business, economic and market conditions; • the announcement of a merger or acquisition; • fluctuations in our actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; 18 Table of Contents • failing to achieve revenue or earnings expectations; • volatility inherent in prices of technology company stocks; • adverse publicity; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel, including personnel added through our acquisition of Etap-On-Line. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us for attracting experienced personnel. We also compete for personnel with other software vendors and consulting and professional services companies. Further, changes in applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. We rely on our direct sales force to sell our services and software in the marketplace. We anticipate increasing our direct sales force. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. If we were unable to hire or retain competent sales personnel our business would suffer. In addition, by relying primarily on a direct sales model, we may miss sales opportunities that might be available through other sales channels, such as domestic and international resellers and strategic referral arrangements. Any inability to hire and retain salespeople or any other qualified personnel, or any loss of the services of key personnel, would harm our business. Our ability to protect our intellectual property is limited and our products may be subject to infringement claims by third parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets and other proprietary information and our ability to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure and use. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information. Although we have six patent applications pending in various countries, we do not own any issued patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We provide our licensed customers with access to object code versions of our software and to other proprietary information underlying our software. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other data transmitted. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products or other intellectual property rights. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, over the past several years, we have made numerous changes in our product names. Although we own registered trademarks in the United States and have filed trademark applications in the United States and in certain other countries, we do not have assurance that our strategy with respect to our trademark portfolio will be adequate to secure or protect all necessary intellectual property. 19 Table of Contents Anti-takeover effects of our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage or prevent a change in control of Concur. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware General Corporation Law, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. For example: • our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with special voting or economic rights; • our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights and, therefore, each of our directors can only be elected by holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; • our stockholders may not take action by written consent; • our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year; and • we require advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 