Item 1A. Risk Factors This report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including, in particular, forward-looking statements under the headings “Item 7- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” These statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding the Company’s intent, belief or current expectations with respect to (i) its financing plans, (ii) trends affecting its financial condition or results of operations, and (iii) the impact of competition. The words “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements; however, this report also contains other forward-looking statements in addition to historical information. Any forward-looking statements made by the Company are not guarantees of future performance and there are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. This means that indicated results may not be realized. Factors that could cause the actual results of the Company in future periods to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following: Risks Relating to our Financial Condition HNH Group’s debt facility contains covenants that limit HNH’s access to cash. If HNH is unable to access funds generated by its subsidiaries, it may not be able to meet its financial obligations or to engage in certain transactions. Because HNH is a holding company that conducts operations through its subsidiaries, it depends on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet its financial obligations. Failure by one or more of those subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow and meet the requirements of H&H Group’s credit facilities could have a material adverse effect on HNH’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to covenant restrictions in H&H Group’s credit facilities, HNH’s sources of cash have been limited as described below. Page | 5 HNH, the parent company’s, sources of cash flow consist of its cash on-hand, distributions from its principal subsidiary, H&H Group, and other discrete transactions. H&H Group’s credit facilities restrict H&H Group’s ability to transfer any cash or other assets to HNH, subject to the following exceptions: (i) unsecured loans for required payments to the WHX Corporation Pension Plan, a defined benefit pension plan sponsored by the Company (the “WHX Pension Plan”), (ii) payments by H&H Group to HNH for the payment of taxes by HNH that are attributable to H&H Group and its subsidiaries, and (iii) unsecured loans, dividends or other payments for other uses in the aggregate principal amount, together with the aggregate amount of all other such loans, dividends and payments, not to exceed $60.0 million in the aggregate of which $15.4 million remained available as of December 31, 2011. These exceptions are subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including the maintenance of minimum amounts of excess borrowing availability under the credit facilities. H&H Group’s credit facilities are collateralized by first priority liens on substantially all of the assets of H&H Group and its subsidiaries. HNH’s ongoing operating cash flow requirements consist of arranging for the funding of the minimum requirements of the WHX Pension Plan and paying HNH’s administrative costs. The Company expects to have required minimum contributions for 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and thereafter of $20.0 million, $19.4 million, $23.8 million, $19.5 million, $14.8 million, and $26.4 million respectively. Such required future contributions are determined based upon assumptions regarding such matters as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination. As of December 31, 2011, HNH, the parent company, had cash of approximately $1.6 million and current liabilities of approximately $1.7 million. HNH, the parent company, held an equity investment in a public company with a cost of $18.0 million and a market value of $25.9 million as of December 31, 2011, and as of March 5, 2012, HNH has invested an additional amount of $3.6 million in common stock of this public company. H&H Group’s debt facility contains financial covenants and other covenants that could limit H&H Group’s access to its lines of credit, which could have a negative impact on liquidity. The Company’s debt is principally held by H&H Group, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of HNH. The ability of H&H Group to draw on its revolving line of credit is limited by its borrowing base of accounts receivable and inventory. As of December 31, 2011, H&H Group’s availability under its U.S. revolving credit facilities was $40.4 million, and as of January 31, 2012, it was approximately $44.0 million. There can be no assurances that H&H Group will continue to have access to its lines of credit if financial performance of its subsidiaries do not satisfy the relevant borrowing base criteria and financial covenants set forth in the applicable financing agreements. If H&H Group does not meet certain of its financial covenants or satisfy its borrowing base criteria, and if it is unable to secure necessary waivers or other amendments from the respective lenders on terms acceptable to management, its ability to access available lines of credit could be limited, its debt obligations could be accelerated by the respective lenders, and liquidity could be adversely affected. Future cash flows from operations or through financings may not be sufficient to enable the Company to meet its obligations, and this would likely have a material adverse effect on its businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the Company will be able to meet its cash requirements to fund its activities in the ordinary course of business for at least the next twelve months. However, that ability is dependent, in part, on the Company’s continuing ability to materially meet its business plans. There can be no assurance that the funds available from operations and under the Company’s credit facilities will be sufficient to fund its debt service costs, working capital demands, pension plan contributions, and environmental remediation costs. If the Company’s planned cash flow projections are not met, management could consider the additional reduction of certain discretionary expenses and the sale of certain assets and/or businesses. Furthermore, if the Company’s cash needs are significantly greater than anticipated or the Company does not materially meet its business plans, the Company may be required to seek additional or alternative financing sources. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available or available on terms acceptable to the Company. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flows from its operations or through financing could impair its liquidity, and would likely have a material adverse effect on its businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Page | 6 We Sponsor a Defined Benefit Pension Plan Which Could Subject Us to Substantial Cash Funding Requirements in the Future. The significant decline in market value of stocks and other investments starting in 2008 across a cross-section of financial markets contributed to an unfunded pension liability of the WHX Pension Plan which totaled $186.2 million as of December 31, 2011 and $113.0 million as of December 31, 2010. In addition, a reduction in interest rates has caused a change in the discount rate that is used to value the pension liability on the balance sheet. The Company expects to have required minimum contributions for 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and thereafter of $20.0 million, $19.4 million, $23.8 million, $19.5 million, $14.8 million, and $26.4 million respectively. Such required future contributions are determined based upon assumptions regarding such matters as discount rates on future obligations, assumed rates of return on plan assets and legislative changes. Actual future pension costs and required funding obligations will be affected by changes in the factors and assumptions described in the previous sentence, as well as other changes such as any plan termination. Risks Relating to Our Business Credit market volatility may affect our ability to refinance our existing debt, borrow funds under our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt. Over the past several years, the global capital and credit markets have experienced a period of unprecedented volatility. Further disruption and volatility in credit market conditions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to refinance our existing debt when it comes due on terms similar to our current credit facilities, draw upon our existing lines of credit or incur additional debt, which may require us to seek other funding sources to meet our cash requirements. Based on the recent financial and credit market conditions, we cannot assure you that alternative sources of financing would be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all. Economic downturns could disrupt and materially harm our business. Negative trends in the general economy could cause a downturn in the market for our products and services. A significant portion of our revenues are received from customers in automotive and construction related industries, which have experienced significant financial downturns in recent years. These industries are cyclical and demand for their products tends to fluctuate due to changes in national and global economic conditions, availability of credit and other factors. The worsening of consumer demand in these industries would adversely affect our revenues, profitability, operating results and cash flow. We may also experience a slowdown if some customers experience difficulty in obtaining adequate financing due to the tightness in the credit markets. Furthermore, the financial stability of our customers or suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for us or non-performance by suppliers. Our assets may also be impaired or subject to write-down or write-off as a result of these conditions. These adverse effects would likely be exacerbated if global economic conditions worsen, resulting in wide-ranging, adverse and prolonged effects on general business conditions, and materially and adversely affecting our operations, financial results and liquidity. In Many Cases, Our Competitors Are Larger Than Us and Have Manufacturing and Financial Resources Greater Than We Do, Which May Have a Negative Impact on Our Business, Operating Results or Financial Condition. There are many companies, both domestic and foreign, which manufacture products of the type we manufacture. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have financial resources greater than we do. Some of these competitors enjoy certain other competitive advantages, including greater name recognition, greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, a larger installed base of customers, and well-established relationships with current and potential customers. Competition is based on quality, technology, service, and price and in some industries, new product introduction, each of which is of equal importance. We may not be able to compete successfully and competition may have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices, and accordingly reducing our revenues and profits. In our served markets, we compete against large as well as smaller-sized private and public companies. This results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. Significant competition could in turn lead to lower prices, lower levels of shipments and/or higher costs in some markets that could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Page | 7 Our Profitability May Be Adversely Affected by Fluctuations in the Cost of Raw Materials. We are exposed to market risk and price fluctuation related to the purchase of natural gas, electricity, precious metal, steel products and certain non-ferrous metals used as raw materials. Our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which either the prices of such commodities are unusually high or their availability is restricted. In addition, we hold precious metal positions that are subject to market fluctuations. Precious metal inventory is included in inventory using the last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting. We enter into precious metal forward or future contracts with major financial institutions to reduce the economic risk of price fluctuations. Some of Our Raw Materials Are Available From a Limited Number of Suppliers. There Can Be No Assurance that the Production of These Raw Materials Will Be Readily Available. Several raw materials used in our products are purchased from chemical companies that are proprietary in nature. Other raw materials are purchased from a single approved vendor on a “sole source” basis. Although alternative sources could be developed in the future if necessary, the qualification procedure can take several months or longer and could therefore interrupt the production of our products and services if the primary raw material source became unexpectedly unavailable. The Loss of Major Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues and Financial Health. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of consolidated net sales in 2011. However, the Company’s 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of consolidated HNH net sales. If we were to lose our relationship with several of these customers, revenues and profitability could fall significantly. Our Business Strategy Includes Acquisitions and Acquisitions Entail Numerous Risks. Our business strategy includes, among other things, strategic acquisitions as well as potential opportunistic acquisitions. This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt. In addition, once completed, acquisitions entail further risks, including: unanticipated costs and liabilities of the acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and losing key employees of the acquired businesses. Our Competitive Advantage Could Be Reduced if Our Intellectual Property or Related Proprietary Manufacturing Processes Become Known by Our Competitors or if Technological Changes Reduce Our Customers’ Need for Our Products. We own a number of trademarks and patents (in the United States and other jurisdictions) on our products and related proprietary manufacturing processes. In addition to trademark and patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect. If our intellectual property is not properly protected by us or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, our protection against competitive products could be diminished. We Could Incur Significant Costs, Including Remediation Costs, as a Result of Complying With Environmental Laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, foreign and local authorities relating to the protection of the environment. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by the Company (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which we have disposed of hazardous substances. As of December 31, 2011, we have established a reserve totaling $6.5 million with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. This reserve may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of remediation, including discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations, which could result in significant additional costs. In addition, we expect that future regulations, and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations, may subject us to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps, which may be at a substantial cost to us. Page | 8 Our Results of Operations May Be Negatively Affected by Variations in Interest Rates. Our credit facilities include variable rate obligations, which expose us to interest rate risks. A one percent (1%) change in interest rates on our variable outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2011 would increase interest expense by approximately $0.5 million on an annual basis. Potential Supply Constraints and Significant Price Fluctuations of Electricity, Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Based Products Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, fuel and other petroleum-based commodities, including adhesives and other products. The availability and pricing of these commodities are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such commodities and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these commodities could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. A Failure to Manage Industry Consolidation Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. Many of the industries within which we operate have experienced recent consolidations. This trend tends to put more purchasing power in the hands of a few large customers who can dictate lower prices of our products. Failure to effectively negotiate pricing agreements and implement on-going cost reduction projects can have a material negative impact on our profitability. Our Future Success Depends Greatly Upon Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel. A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. Litigation Could Affect Our Profitability. The nature of our businesses expose us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of any litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. As of December 31, 2011, we have accrued approximately $6.5 million for environmental remediation costs but have not made any accruals for other litigation matters. Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting May Not Be Effective and Our Independent Auditors May Not Be Able to Certify as to Their Effectiveness, Which Could Have a Significant and Adverse Effect on Our Business and Reputation. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder (“Section 404”) as of December 31, 2011. Section 404 requires us to report on the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In the past, our management has identified ‘‘material weaknesses’’ in our internal controls over financial reporting, which we believe have been remediated. However, any failure to maintain or implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We may also be required to incur costs to improve our internal control system and hire additional personnel. This could negatively impact our results of operations. Section 404 also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls for certain SEC registrants. HNH became subject to the requirement for an audit of internal controls over financial reporting for the first time in 2011. In the future, there can be no assurance that our auditors will issue an unqualified report attesting to our internal controls over financial reporting at that time. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or our financial statements could change. Page | 9 Risk Relating to Our Ownership Structure Warren G. Lichtenstein, Our Chairman, and Certain Other Officers and Directors, Through Their Affiliation with Steel Partners Holdings GP Inc., Has the Ability to Exert Significant Influence Over Our Operations. SPH Group Holdings LLC (“SPHG Holdings”) was the direct owner of 7,014,736 shares of the Company’s common stock, representing approximately 55.47% of the outstanding shares at December 31, 2011. SPHG Holdings may increase its ownership position of the Company’s common stock in the future. The power to vote and dispose of the securities held by SPHG Holdings is controlled by Steel Partners Holdings GP Inc. (“SP Holdings GP”). Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, is also the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SP Holdings GP. Mr. Lichtenstein has investment and voting control over the shares beneficially owned by SPHG Holdings and thus has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs and over the outcome of any action requiring a stockholder vote, including the election of our Board of Directors, the approval of amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The interests of Mr. Lichtenstein and SP Holdings GP in such matters may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, certain other affiliates of SP Holdings GP hold positions with HNH, including Glen M. Kassan as Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman, John J. Quicke as Vice President, Jack L. Howard and John H. McNamara Jr., as directors, and James F. McCabe, Jr., as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Factors Affecting the Value of our Common Stock Transfer Restrictions Contained in our Charter and Other Factors Could Hinder the Development of an Active Market for our Common Stock. There can be no assurance as to the volume of shares of our common stock or the degree of price volatility for our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market. There are transfer restrictions contained in our charter to help preserve our net operating tax loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) that will generally prevent any person from acquiring amounts of our common stock such that such person would hold 5% or more of our common stock, for up to ten years after July 29, 2005, as specifically provided in our charter. The transfer restrictions could hinder development of an active market for our common stock. We Do Not Anticipate Paying Dividends on Our Common Stock in the Foreseeable Future Which May Limit Investor Demand. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Such lack of dividend prospects may have an adverse impact on the market demand for our common stock as certain institutional investors may invest only in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our common stock. Future Offerings of our Equity Securities May Result in Dilution of our Common Stock and a Reduction in the Price of our Common Stock. We are authorized to issue 180,000,000 shares of common stock. As of March 9, 2012, 12,646,498 shares of common stock are outstanding. In addition, we are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of March 5, 2012, no shares of our preferred stock were outstanding. Pursuant to our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 as declared effective by the SEC on June 29, 2009, we may issue from time to time, at prices and on terms to be determined by market conditions at the time we make the offer, up to an aggregate of $25,000,000 of our common stock, preferred stock or other securities, provided, however, that in the 12 calendar months prior to any issuance no more than one-third of the aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates may be offered thereunder. Any future issuances of equity, whether pursuant to the shelf registration statement or otherwise, may be at prices below the market price of our stock, and our stockholders may suffer significant dilution. Page | 10 