ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. We have received a report from our independent accountants, relating to our December 31, 2006 audited financial statements containing an explanatory paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and our accumulated deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. For the reasons described below, Company management does not believe that cash on hand and cash flow generated internally by the Company will be adequate to fund the operation of its businesses beyond a short period of time. These reasons raise significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. As more fully discussed in Note 14, “Litigation,” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, on March 15, 2007, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement with MySpace, Inc. (“MySpace”), related to a lawsuit which was filed by MySpace on June 1, 2006 in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (the “Court”). The lawsuit alleged, among other things, that the Company sent unsolicited and unauthorized commercial email messages to MySpace members in violation of certain federal and state laws and the Company’s contract with MySpace. On February 28, 2007, the Court entered an order (the “Order”) finding the Company liable for violating certain federal and state laws and for breaching its contract with MySpace. The Order was not a final judgment nor did it make a determination as to the actual amount of damages to be awarded. However, based upon preliminary estimates, the Company believes that total awarded damages could range from approximately $45.5 million to $125.5 million, excluding “per incident” damages assessed under California law. Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, the Company agreed to pay MySpace approximately $2.6 million on or before April 5, 2007 in exchange for a mutual release of all claims against one another, including any claims against the Company’s directors and officers. As part of the settlement, Michael Egan, the Company’s CEO, who is also an affiliate, agreed to enter into an agreement with MySpace on or before April 5th pursuant to which he would, among other things, provide a letter of credit, cash or other equivalent security (collectively, the “Security”) in form and substance satisfactory to MySpace. Such Security is to expire and be released on the 100th day following the Company’s payment of the foregoing $2.6 million so long as no bankruptcy petition, assignment for the benefit of creditors or like liquidation, reorganization or insolvency proceeding is instituted or filed related to the Company during such 100-day period. 10 The Company does not currently have the resources to both pay the $2.6 million settlement amount and to fund operations beyond April 2007. The Company intends to seek to raise capital or otherwise borrow funds with which to pay such amount and otherwise to fund operations. Although there is no commitment to do so, any such funds would most likely come primarily from Mr. Egan or affiliates of Mr. Egan or the Company, as the Company currently has no access to credit facilities with traditional third party lenders and has historically relied on borrowings from related parties to meet short-term liquidity needs. Any such capital raised would not be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and would not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in raising such capital or borrowing such funds and any capital raised will likely result in very substantial dilution of the number of shares outstanding or which could be outstanding upon the exercise or conversion of any derivative securities issued by the Company as part of such capital raise. The failure to pay the $2.6 million to MySpace and/or the failure to satisfactorily provide the Security would result in a resumption of the litigation with MySpace and, in all likelihood, would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including the potential bankruptcy and cessation of business of the Company. The Company continues to incur consolidated net losses and management believes that the Company will continue to be unprofitable in the foreseeable future. As of February 28, 2007, the Company had a net working capital deficit of approximately $7.3 million, inclusive of a cash and cash equivalents balance of approximately $4.0 million. Such working capital deficit includes a settlement liability of approximately $2.6 million owed to MySpace and an aggregate of $3.4 million in secured convertible demand notes (the “Convertible Notes”) and accrued interest of approximately $611 thousand due to entities controlled by the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Inasmuch as substantially all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries secure the Convertible Notes, in connection with any resulting proceeding to collect the indebtedness related to the Convertible Notes, the noteholders could seize and sell the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries, any or all of which would have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and future operations of the Company, including the potential bankruptcy or cessation of business of the Company. It is our preference to avoid filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. However, in order to avoid such filing and continue as a going concern, we believe that, in addition to settling the MySpace litigation as discussed above, we must (i) quickly raise a sufficient amount of capital; (ii) successfully implement a business plan focused primarily on expanding our Tralliance Internet services revenue base, and reducing Tralliance and corporate overhead expenses; and (iii) successfully eliminate future losses incurred by our VoIP telephony services and computer games business segments by effectuating our planned shutdown and/or selling certain component assets of these businesses. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully complete any or all of the above actions which we believe are required in order to continue as a going concern. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses each year and we expect that we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We had losses from continuing operations, net of applicable income tax benefits, of approximately $17.0 million, $13.3 million and $24.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The principal causes of our losses are likely to continue to be: · costs resulting from the operation of our business; 11 · failure to generate sufficient revenue; and · selling, general and administrative expenses. Although we have restructured our businesses, we still expect to continue to incur losses as we attempt to improve the performance and operating results of our Internet services business and while we attempt to sell components of our recently discontinued computer games and VoIP telephony services businesses. WE ARE A PARTY TO LITIGATION MATTERS AND OTHER CLAIMS THAT MAY SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY AND BE TIME CONSUMING AND EXPENSIVE. We are currently a party to litigation and other claims and/or disputes arising in the ordinary course of business. At this time, other than the $2.6 million settlement amount owed to MySpace, we cannot reasonably estimate the range of any loss or damages resulting from any of the pending lawsuits or claims due to uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome. The defense of any litigation or the process required to resolve outstanding claims and/or disputes may be expensive and divert management's attention from day-to-day operations. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and may utilize a significant portion of our cash resources. See Note 14, “Litigation,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding outstanding lawsuits. OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY LIMITED. As of December 31, 2006, we had net operating loss carryforwards which may be potentially available for U.S. tax purposes of approximately $162 million. These carryforwards expire through 2026. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of an "ownership change" of a corporation. Due to various significant changes in our ownership interests, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, we have substantially limited the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize any net operating loss carryforwards in the future. WE DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED GROWTH IN THE USE AND COMMERCIAL VIABILITY OF THE INTERNET. Our Internet services business is substantially dependent upon the continued growth in the general use of the Internet. Internet and electronic commerce growth may be inhibited for a number of reasons, including: · inadequate network infrastructure; · security and authentication concerns; · inadequate quality and availability of cost-effective, high-speed service; · general economic and business downturns; and · catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. As web usage grows, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth or its performance and reliability may decline. Websites have experienced interruptions in their service as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the Internet network infrastructure. If these outages or delays frequently occur in the future, web usage, as well as usage of our services, could grow more slowly or decline. Also, the Internet's commercial viability may be significantly hampered due to: · delays in the development or adoption of new operating and technical standards and performance improvements required to handle increased levels of activity; 12 · increased government regulation; · potential governmental taxation of such services; and · insufficient availability of telecommunications services which could result in slower response times and adversely affect usage of the Internet. WE MAY FACE INCREASED GOVERNMENT REGULATION, TAXATION AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES IN OUR INDUSTRY, BOTH DOMESTICALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND/OR OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. There are an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. In addition, a number of federal, state, local and foreign legislative and regulatory proposals are under consideration. Laws and regulations have been and will likely continue to be adopted with respect to the Internet relating to, among other things, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Changes in tax laws relating to electronic commerce could materially affect our business, prospects and financial condition. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in electronic commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with other entities involved in the industries in which we participate, and otherwise harm our business. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and electronic commerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on electronic commerce or may alter how we do business. This could decrease the demand for our existing or proposed services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. WE RELY ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We regard substantial elements of our websites and underlying technology, as well as certain VoIP technology assets, as proprietary and attempt to protect them by relying on intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. In connection with our license agreements with third parties, we generally seek to control access to and distribution of our technology and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Thus, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary information, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our intellectual property rights. 13 We pursue the registration of our trademarks in the United States and, in some cases, internationally. We have been awarded patent protection for certain VoIP assets which we acquired or which we have developed. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet related businesses are also uncertain and still evolving. We cannot assure you about the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. However, we may not have sufficient funds or personnel to adequately litigate or otherwise protect our rights. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our business activities and product offerings will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us, including claims related to providing hyperlinks to websites operated by third parties, sending unsolicited email messages or providing advertising on a keyword basis that links a specific search term entered by a user to the appearance of a particular advertisement. Moreover, from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of alleged infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. In the fourth quarter of 2005, we were sued by Sprint Communications Company, L.P. (“Sprint”) for alleged unauthorized use of “inventions” described and claimed in seven patents held by Sprint. In August 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with Sprint which resolved the pending patent infringement lawsuit. As part of the settlement, we agreed to enter into a non-exclusive license under certain of Sprint’s patents. Additionally, on February 28, 2007, the United States District Court for the Central District of California entered an order, related to the lawsuit filed against theglobe by MySpace, Inc. (“MySpace”), granting in part MySpace’s motion for summary judgment, finding that we were liable for violation of the CAN-SPAM Act and the California Business & Professions Code, and for breach of contract. On March 15, 2007, the Company entered into a Settlement Agreement with MySpace whereby, among other things, the Company agreed to pay MySpace approximately $2.6 million on or before April 5, 2007 in exchange for a mutual release of all claims against one another, including any claims against the Company’s directors and officers. See Note 14, “Litigation,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the litigation mentioned above. Any litigation claims or counterclaims could impair our business because they could: · be time-consuming; · result in significant costs; · subject us to significant liability for damages; · result in invalidation of our proprietary rights; · divert management's attention; · cause product release delays; or · require us to redesign our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We license from third parties various technologies incorporated into our products, networks and sites. We cannot assure you that these third-party technology licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the third parties from which we license our technology will be able to defend our proprietary rights successfully against claims of infringement. As a result, our inability to obtain any of these technology licenses could result in delays or reductions in the introduction of new products and services or could adversely affect the performance of our existing products and services until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. 14 The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies could establish and have established additional top-level domains, could appoint additional domain name registries or could modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our names or our “.travel” domain registry business. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed, or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. The relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING BRAND AWARENESS; BRAND IDENTITY IS CRITICAL TO OUR COMPANY. Our success in the markets in which we operate will depend on our ability to create and maintain brand awareness for our product offerings. This has in some cases required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of capital to allow us to market our products and establish brand recognition and customer loyalty. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial resources. If we fail to promote and maintain our various brands or our business' brand values are diluted, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The importance of brand recognition will continue to increase because low barriers of entry to the industries in which we operate may result in an increased number of direct competitors. To promote our brands, we may be required to continue to increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness. We may not generate a corresponding increase in revenue to justify these costs. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE. Due to our significant change in operations, including the entry into new lines of business and disposition of other lines of business, our historical quarterly operating results are not necessarily reflective of future results. The factors that will cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the future include: · the outcome and costs related to defending and settling outstanding litigation, claims and disputes; · sales of our recently discontinued businesses or assets; · changes in the number of sales or technical employees; · the level of traffic on our websites; · the overall demand for Internet travel services and Internet advertising; · the addition or loss of “.travel” domain name registrants, advertising clients of our www.search.travel website and electronic commerce partners on our website; · overall usage and acceptance of the Internet; · seasonal trends in advertising and electronic commerce sales in our business; · costs relating to the implementation or cessation of marketing plans for our business; · other costs relating to the maintenance of our operations; · the restructuring of our business; 15 · failure to generate significant revenues and profit margins from new and/or existing products and services; and · competition from others providing services similar to ours. OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES FINANCIAL FORECASTING DIFFICULT. OUR INEXPERIENCE IN THE INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS WILL MAKE FINANCIAL FORECASTING EVEN MORE DIFFICULT. We have a limited operating history for you to use in evaluating our prospects and us, particularly as it pertains to our Internet services business. Our prospects should be considered in light of the risks encountered by companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets like ours. We may not successfully address these risks. For example, we may not be able to: · maintain or increase levels of user traffic on our www.search.travel website; · generate and maintain adequate levels of “.travel” domain name registrations; · generate and maintain adequate www.search.travel advertising revenue; · adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments; and · identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM IS INEXPERIENCED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF A LARGE OPERATING COMPANY. Only our Chairman has had experience managing a large operating company. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: · our key employees will be able to work together effectively as a team; · we will be able to retain the remaining members of our management team; · we will be able to hire, train and manage our employee base; · our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations; and · our management will be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully exploit the market opportunity for our products and services. WE DEPEND ON HIGHLY QUALIFIED TECHNICAL AND MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical expertise and managerial personnel necessary to operate our businesses. We may need to give retention bonuses and stock incentives to certain employees to keep them, which can be costly to us. The loss of the services of members of our management team or other key personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of key management, client service, product development, sales and technical personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and do not intend to purchase any in the future. Although we generally enter into non-competition agreements with our key employees, our business could be harmed if one or more of our officers or key employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete with us. 16 We may be unable to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. Our deteriorating financial performance creates uncertainty that may result in departures of key employees and our inability to attract suitable replacements and/or additional managerial personnel in the future. Wages for managerial and technical employees are increasing and are expected to continue to increase in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and could continue to experience in the future if we need to hire any additional personnel, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we were unable to attract and retain the technical and managerial personnel necessary to support and grow our businesses, our businesses would likely be materially and adversely affected. OUR OFFICERS, INCLUDING OUR CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT HAVE OTHER INTERESTS AND TIME COMMITMENTS; WE HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH SOME OF OUR DIRECTORS; ALL OF OUR DIRECTORS ARE EMPLOYEES OR STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY OR AFFILIATES OF OUR LARGEST STOCKHOLDER. Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Egan, is an officer or director of other companies, we have to compete for his time. Mr. Egan became our Chief Executive Officer effective June 1, 2002. Mr. Egan is also the controlling investor of Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. and E&C Capital Partners LLLP, which are our largest stockholders. Mr. Egan has not committed to devote any specific percentage of his business time with us. Accordingly, we compete with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., E&C Capital Partners LLLP, Blue Wall, LLC, Speecho, LLC and Mr. Egan's other related entities for his time. Our President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and Director, Mr. Edward A. Cespedes, is also an officer or director of other companies. Accordingly, we must compete for his time. Mr. Cespedes is an officer or director of various privately held entities and is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. Our Vice President of Finance and Director, Ms. Robin Lebowitz is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. She is also an officer or director of other companies or entities controlled by Mr. Egan and Mr. Cespedes. Due to the relationships with his related entities, Mr. Egan will have an inherent conflict of interest in making any decision related to transactions between the related entities and us, including investment in our securities. Furthermore, the Company's Board of Directors presently is comprised entirely of individuals which are employees of theglobe, and therefore are not "independent." We intend to review related party transactions in the future on a case-by-case basis. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTY OUTSOURCED HOSTING FACILITIES OVER WHICH WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL. Our principal servers are located in areas throughout the eastern region of the United States primarily at third party outsourced hosting facilities. Our operations depend on the ability to protect our systems against damage from unexpected events, including fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures and vandalism. Any disruption in our Internet access could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also materially adversely affect our businesses. Our reputation and/or the brands of our business could be materially and adversely affected by any problems experienced by our websites, databases or our supporting information technology networks. We may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We do not presently have any secondary off-site systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. HACKERS MAY ATTEMPT TO PENETRATE OUR SECURITY SYSTEM; ONLINE SECURITY BREACHES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Consumer and supplier confidence in our businesses depends on maintaining relevant security features. Substantial or ongoing security breaches on our systems or other Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. We incur substantial expenses protecting against and remedying security breaches. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Experienced programmers or "hackers" have successfully penetrated our systems and we expect that these attempts will continue to occur from time to time. Because a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security could misappropriate proprietary or confidential information or cause interruptions in our products and services, we may have to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems caused by these hackers. Additionally, we may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. Such security breaches could materially adversely affect our company. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses resulting from hackers or otherwise could expose us to significant liability. Our insurance may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with whom we have relationships. 17 WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LIABILITY FOR INFORMATION RETRIEVED FROM OR TRANSMITTED OVER THE INTERNET. Users may access content on our websites or the websites of our distribution partners or other third parties through website links or other means, and they may download content and subsequently transmit this content to others over the Internet. This could result in claims against us based on a variety of theories, including defamation, obscenity, negligence, copyright infringement, trademark infringement or the wrongful actions of third parties. Other theories may be brought based on the nature, publication and distribution of our content or based on errors or false or misleading information provided on our websites. Claims have been brought against online services in the past and we have received inquiries from third parties regarding these matters. Such claims could be material in the future. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES SOLD OVER THE INTERNET, INCLUDING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SOLD BY OTHERS. We enter into agreements with commerce partners and sponsors under which, in some cases, we are entitled to receive a share of revenue from the purchase of goods and services through direct links from our sites. We cannot assure you that any indemnification that may be provided to us in some of these agreements with these parties will be adequate. Even if these claims do not result in our liability, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. The imposition of potential liability for information carried on or disseminated through our systems could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to liability. Those measures may require the expenditure of substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our services. Additionally, our insurance policies may not cover all potential liabilities to which we are exposed. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT ON A TIMELY BASIS. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as directed by Section 404 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company's independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We have not yet developed a Section 404 implementation plan. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. We expect that we will need to hire and/or engage additional personnel and incur incremental costs in order to complete the work required by Section 404. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete a Section 404 plan on a timely basis. The Company's liquidity position will also impact our ability to adequately fund our Section 404 efforts. Even if we timely complete a Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. This could subject the Company to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. 18 RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS OUR CONTRACT TO SERVE AS THE REGISTRY FOR THE “.TRAVEL” TOP-LEVEL DOMAIN MAY BE TERMINATED EARLY, WHICH WOULD LIKELY DO IRREPARABLE HARM TO OUR DEVELOPING INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. Our contract with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”) to serve as the registry for the “.travel” top-level Internet domain is for an initial term of ten years. Additionally, we have agreed to engage in good faith negotiations at regular intervals throughout the term of our contract (at least once every three years) regarding possible changes to the provisions of the contract, including changes in the fees and payments that we are required to make to ICANN. In the event that we materially and fundamentally breach the contract and fail to cure such breach within thirty days of notice, ICANN has the right to immediately terminate our contract. Should our “.travel” registry contract be terminated early by ICANN, we would likely permanently shutdown our Internet services business. Further, we could be held liable to pay additional fees or financial damages to ICANN or certain of our related subcontractors and, in certain limited circumstances, to pay punitive, exemplary or other damages to ICANN. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED IF IN THE FUTURE THE ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE INTERNET NO LONGER RELIES UPON THE EXISTING DOMAIN NAME SYSTEM. The domain name registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without the use of the existing domain name system. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain name to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE OUTSOURCE CERTAIN OPERATIONS WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR THIRD PARTY VENDORS. We do not develop and maintain all of the products and services that we offer. We offer most of our services to our customers through various third party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf and also outsource most of our operations to third parties. Accordingly, we are dependent, in part, on the services of third party service providers, which may raise concerns by our customers regarding our ability to control the services we offer them if certain elements are managed by another company. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, discontinue their lines of business, cease or reduce operations or terminate their contracts with us, our business, operations and customer relations may be impacted negatively and we may be required to pursue replacement third party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. If a problem should arise with a provider, transitioning services and data from one provider to another can often be a complicated and time consuming process and we cannot assure that if we need to switch from a provider we would be able to do so without significant disruptions, or at all. If we were unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to either temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services which may disrupt services to our customers. Any failure to provide services would have a negative impact on our revenue, profitability and financial condition and could materially harm our Internet services business. 19 REGULATORY AND STATUTORY CHANGES COULD HARM OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. We cannot predict with any certainty the effect that new governmental or regulatory policies, including changes in consumer privacy policies or industry reaction to those policies, will have on our domain name registry business. Additionally, ICANN’s limited resources may seriously affect its ability to carry out its mandate or could force ICANN to impose additional fees on registries. Changes in governmental or regulatory statutes or policies could cause decreases in future revenue and increases in future costs which could have a material adverse effect on the development of our domain name registry business. OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS IS DEPENDENT ON THE TRAVEL INDUSTRY. OUR BUSINESS MAY AFFECTED BY EVENTS WHICH AFFECT THE TRAVEL INDUSTRY IN GENERAL. Revenue and cash flows of our Internet services business principally result from the registrations of domain names in the “.travel” top level domain. The ability to register such domain names are only available to businesses which are involved in the travel industry. Events such as terrorist attacks, military actions and natural disasters have had a significant adverse affect on the travel industry in the past. In addition, recessions or other economic pressures, such as the level of employment in the U.S or abroad have also had negative impacts on the travel industry. The overall demand for advertising, as well as the level of consumer travel may also be linked to such events or economic conditions. If such events result in a negative impact on the travel industry, such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ATTRACT ADVERTISERS OR INTERNET USERS TO OUR SEARCH.TRAVEL WEBSITE. Our www.search.travel search engine competes for advertising dollars with large Internet portal and search engine sites, such as Google, America Online, MSN and Yahoo!, that offer listings or other advertising opportunities for travel companies. These companies have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and larger client bases. In addition, we also compete with traditional media companies, such as newspaper and magazine publishers, that provide online advertising opportunities on their websites. We expect to face additional competition as other companies enter the online advertising market. If we do not attract a sufficient number of Internet users and advertisers to our search engine website, our present business model may not be successful and our business could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR RECENTLY DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO RECOVER THE FULL CARRYING VALUE OF THE ASSETS OF OUR RECENTLY DISCONTINUED BUSINESSES. In connection with our recent decision to discontinue the operations of our computer games and VoIP telephony services businesses, we are currently in the process of evaluating the recoverability of the carrying value of the remaining assets of these businesses. At the present time, management is not aware of any issues that would negatively impact the recoverability of these assets. However, there can be no assurance that future events will not occur, particularly with respect to the collection of approximately $500 thousand in accounts receivable of our computer games businesses, which will adversely impact the recoverability of these discontinued business assets. Any such adverse future events could negatively impact the Company’s already weakened liquidity and financial condition. WE MAY INCUR EXCESSIVE SHUTDOWN COSTS. In connection with our recent decision to discontinue the operations of our computer games and VoIP telephony services businesses, we are in the process of evaluating the amount of costs expected to be incurred in shutting down these businesses. The amount of these shutdown costs, including employee termination benefits and vendor contract termination costs, are not yet certain, however, at the present time, we believe that total shutdown costs for both businesses combined will range from between $20 thousand to $835 thousand. Although we will attempt to negotiate vendor settlements near the lower end of this range, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. Additionally, liabilities presently unknown to us could be identified in the future. Either or both of these adverse outcomes could negatively impact the Company’s already weakened liquidity and financial condition. 20 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE VOLUME OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE IN THE OPEN MARKET COULD DRIVE DOWN THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK OR KEEP OUR STOCK PRICE FROM IMPROVING, EVEN IF OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVES. As of March 19, 2007, we had issued and outstanding approximately 172.5 million shares, of which approximately 84.8 million shares were freely tradable over the public markets. There is limited trading volume in our shares and we are now traded only in the over-the-counter market. Most of our outstanding restricted shares of Common Stock were issued more than one year ago and are therefore eligible to be resold over the public markets pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Sales of significant amounts of Common Stock in the public market in the future, the perception that sales will occur or the registration of additional shares pursuant to existing contractual obligations could materially and adversely drive down the price of our stock. In addition, such factors could adversely affect the ability of the market price of the Common Stock to increase even if our business prospects were to improve. Substantially all of our stockholders holding restricted securities, including shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants or the conversion of convertible notes to acquire our Common Stock (which are convertible into 68 million shares), have registration rights under various conditions and are or will become available for resale in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2006, there were outstanding options to purchase approximately 20.1 million shares of our Common Stock, which become eligible for sale in the public market from time to time depending on vesting and the expiration of lock-up agreements. The shares issuable upon exercise of these options are registered under the Securities Act and consequently, subject to certain volume restrictions as to shares issuable to executive officers, will be freely tradable. Also as of March 19, 2007, we had issued and outstanding warrants to acquire approximately 16.9 million shares of our Common Stock. Many of the outstanding instruments representing the warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pursuant to which the exercise prices and number of shares issuable upon exercise may be adjusted. OUR CHAIRMAN MAY CONTROL US. Michael S. Egan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, approximately 150 million shares of our Common Stock as of March 19, 2007, which in the aggregate represents approximately 58% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock (treating as outstanding for this purpose the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise and/or conversion of the options, convertible promissory notes and warrants owned by Mr. Egan or his affiliates). Accordingly, Mr. Egan will be able to exercise significant influence over, if not control, any stockholder vote. DELISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAKES IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO SELL SHARES. THIS MAY POTENTIALLY LEAD TO FUTURE MARKET DECLINES. The shares of our Common Stock were delisted from the NASDAQ national market in April 2001 and are now traded in the over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board or "OTCBB." As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. The delisting has made trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in share price and making it less likely our stock price will increase. It has also made it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We may also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if we sell equity due to our delisting. 21 OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO CERTAIN "PENNY STOCK" RULES WHICH MAY MAKE IT A LESS ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT. Since the trading price of our Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our Common Stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets were to fall below $2.0 million. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our Common Stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AFFECTING US COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and stockholder rights plan and provisions of applicable Delaware law may: · have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company; · discourage bids of our Common Stock at a premium over the market price; or · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our Common Stock. Certain Delaware laws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our Company. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met. In addition, provisions of our charter and by-laws, and the significant amount of Common Stock held by our current executive officers, directors and affiliates, could together have the effect of discouraging potential takeover attempts or making it more difficult for stockholders to change management. In addition, the employment contracts of our Chairman and CEO, President and Vice President of Finance provide for substantial lump sum payments ranging from 2 (for the Vice President) to 10 times (for each of the Chairman and President) of their respective average combined salaries and bonuses (together with the continuation of various benefits for extended periods) in the event of their termination without cause or a termination by the executive for “good reason,” which is conclusively presumed in the event of a “change-in-control” (as such terms are defined in such agreements). OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND MAY DECLINE. The trading price of our Common Stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in response to various factors, including: · the performance and public acceptance of our product lines; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · competitive announcements; · sales of any of our recently discontinued businesses and/or components of their assets; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; and 22 · news relating to trends in our markets. The market price of our Common Stock could also decline as a result of unforeseen factors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly Internet related companies, have been highly volatile. Our stock is also more volatile due to the limited trading volume and the high number of shares eligible for trading in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 