ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As a result of the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified consultants. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain consultants who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients’ executive search needs. Our ability to hire and retain qualified consultants could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels relative to our competitors or modifications of our total compensation philosophy or competitor hiring programs. If we cannot attract, hire and retain qualified consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We may not be able to prevent our consultants from taking our clients with them to another firm. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain strong, long-term relationships with our clients. Although we work on building these relationships between our firm and our clients, in many cases, one or two consultants have primary responsibility for a client relationship. When a consultant leaves one executive search firm and joins another, clients that have established relationships with the departing consultant may move their business to the consultant’s new employer. We may also lose clients if the departing consultant has widespread name recognition or a reputation as a specialist in executing searches in a specific industry or management function. Historically, we have not experienced significant revenue loss from this potential client portability. If we fail to limit departing consultants from moving business to another employer, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to maintain our professional reputation and brand name. We depend on our overall reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements and hire qualified consultants. Our success also depends on the individual reputations of our consultants. We obtain many of our new engagements from existing clients or from referrals by those clients. A client who is dissatisfied with our work can adversely affect our ability to secure new engagements. If any factor hurts our reputation, including poor performance, we may experience difficulties in competing successfully for both new engagements and qualified consultants. Failure to maintain our professional reputation and brand name could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our clients may restrict us from recruiting their employees we may be unable to fill existing executive search assignments. Clients frequently require us to refrain from recruiting certain of their employees when conducting executive searches on behalf of other clients. These restrictions generally remain in effect for no more than one year following the commencement of an engagement. However, the specific duration and scope of the off-limits arrangements depend on the length of the client relationship, the frequency with which the client engages us to perform searches, the number of assignments we have performed for the client and the potential for future business with the client. If a prospective client believes that we are overly restricted by these off-limits arrangements from recruiting the employees of our existing clients, these prospective clients may not engage us to perform their executive searches, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 7 Table of Contents We face aggressive competition. The global executive search industry is extremely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with other large global executive search firms and with smaller specialty firms. Specialty firms can focus on regional or functional markets or on particular industries. Some of our competitors may possess greater resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do in particular markets or practice areas. There are limited barriers to entry into the search industry and new search firms continue to enter the market. Many executive search firms that have a smaller client base may be subject to fewer blocking arrangements. In addition, our clients or prospective clients may decide to perform executive searches using in-house personnel. Finally, competitors sometimes reduce their fees in order to attract clients and increase market share. Because we typically do not discount our fees, we may experience some loss of net revenue. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Our inability to meet these competitive challenges could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on information management systems. Our success depends upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our goals, we must continue to improve and upgrade our information management systems. We may be unable to license, design and implement, in a cost-effective and timely manner, improved information systems that allow us to compete effectively. In addition, business process reengineering efforts may result in a change in software platforms and programs. Such efforts may result in an acceleration of depreciation expense over the shortened expected remaining life of the software. In addition, if we experience any interruptions or loss in our information processing capabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We face the risk of liability in the services we perform. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the executive search process. The growth and development of our other leadership consulting services brings with it the potential for new types of claims. A client could assert a claim for violations of off-limits arrangements, breaches of confidentiality agreements or professional malpractice. In addition, candidates and client employees could assert claims against us. Possible claims include failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for discrimination or other violations of the employment laws or malpractice. In various countries, we are subject to data protection laws impacting the processing of candidate information. We maintain professional liability insurance in amounts and coverage that we believe are adequate; however, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all claims or that coverage will always be available. Significant uninsured liabilities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our multinational operations may be adversely affected by social, political, legal and economic risks. We generate substantial revenue outside the United States. We offer our services through offices in 26 countries around the world. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions inherent in international operations which could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we conduct business in countries where the legal systems, local laws and trade practices are unsettled and evolving. Commercial laws in these countries are sometimes vague, arbitrary and inconsistently applied. Under these circumstances, it is difficult for us to determine at all times the exact requirements of such local laws. If we fail to comply with local laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition, the global nature of our operations poses challenges to our management, and financial and accounting systems. Failure to meet these challenges could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to align our cost structure with net revenue. We must ensure that our costs and workforce continue to be in proportion to demand for our services. Failure to align our cost structure with net revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our net revenue may be affected by adverse economic conditions. Although our net revenue increased in 2006, coinciding with signs of moderate worldwide economic growth, there can be no assurances that economic conditions will continue to improve or even remain stable. If economic conditions weaken, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may not be able to generate sufficient profits to realize our net deferred tax assets. While we were profitable in 2006 and expect to be profitable in 2007 and beyond, there is no assurance that future taxable income will be sufficient to realize the benefit of certain deferred tax assets we could claim. We establish valuation allowances when there is insufficient evidence for the realizability of these deferred tax assets. The realizability of the deferred tax assets is reassessed as facts and circumstances dictate. If after future assessments of the realizability of the deferred tax assets, we determine that a lesser or greater allowance is required, we would record a reduction or increase to the income tax expense and the valuation allowance in the period of such determination. Our inability to successfully integrate Highland Partners and other acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business. We completed the acquisition of Highland Partners in the fourth quarter of 2006. While we intend to continue to grow through selective acquisitions, we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrate the acquired businesses effectively and profitably into our existing operations. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to complete the integration of Highland Partners and other acquisitions successfully into our operations. In addition, failure to successfully integrate Highland Partners may adversely affect our profitability by creating operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues and reduce operating income. Further, after any acquisition, the acquired businesses’ clients may choose not to move their business to us causing an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Periodically, we perform assessments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Current valuation estimates indicate that there has been no impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets. Future events, however, including our financial performance and economic conditions, could cause these assets to become impaired in the future. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to sublease or assign unused office space could affect our earnings and cash flows. As a result of prior consolidation and closing of offices in order to reduce costs, we have been left with unused office space for which we are still required to make lease payments. While the majority of the vacated properties have been sublet, at December 31, 2006, there was approximately 60 thousand square feet of unused real estate. The total remaining commitment related to these vacated properties that have not been sublet is $5.1 9 Table of Contents million, of which $3.3 million has been accrued at December 31, 2006, net of estimated sublease income. Inherent in these accruals are estimates concerning vacancy periods and sublease income. If we are unable to sublease or assign this unused office space within the estimated time frame, if we sublease or assign this office space for amounts less than we had anticipated or if one of our tenants defaults on a sublease, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could suffer. We have antitakeover provisions that make an acquisition of us difficult and expensive. Antitakeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and the Delaware laws make it difficult and expensive for us to be acquired in a transaction which is not approved by our Board of Directors. Some of the provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include: • a classified board of directors • limitations on the removal of directors • limitations on stockholder actions • the ability to issue one or more series of preferred stock by action of our Board of Directors These provisions could discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium over the current market price for the common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 