ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Extensive Regulation Of Our Business If we fail to follow extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. We derive a majority of our revenues on a cash basis from federal student financial aid programs. In connection with the receipt of federal financial aid by our students, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the "HEA"), and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education ("ED"), subject us to significant regulatory scrutiny in the form of numerous standards that schools must satisfy in order to participate in the various federal financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA ("Title IV"). As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulations by these agencies that, among other things, require us to: •undertake steps to assure that our schools do not have Cohort Default Rates that exceed applicable limits; •limit the percentage of revenues (on a cash basis) derived at each of our institutions from federal student financial aid programs to less than 90%; •adhere to financial responsibility and administrative capability standards; •prohibit the payment of incentive compensation to personnel engaged in student recruiting, admissions activities or awarding financial aid; •achieve stringent completion and placement outcomes for short-term programs; and •make timely refunds of tuition when a student withdraws from one of our institutions. These regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer fines, penalties or other sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs at those schools, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. 40 Table of Contents Congress has in the past changed, and may in the future change, eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs. Other governmental or regulatory bodies may also change similar laws or regulations relating to student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our business. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In mid-2008, Congress passed and the President signed the HEOA in order to reauthorize the HEA. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74) (the "Appropriations Act"). The new law significantly impacts the federal student aid programs authorized under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended ("HEA"). Auto-Zero EFC Income Threshold—The Appropriations Act amended the HEA to reduce the income threshold for an automatic zero "expected family contribution" to $23,000 for the 2012-2013 award year for both dependent and independent students. The threshold for 2012-2013 was scheduled to be $32,000, but now is $23,000. For students whose families make between $23,000 and $32,000 per year, this has decreased the amount of Pell grants such students receive. Ability-to-Benefit—The Appropriations Act also eliminated federal student aid eligibility for all students without a "certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate." The Appropriations Act makes an exception for students who have completed a secondary school education in a home school setting that is treated as a home school or private school under state law. Therefore, students who do not have a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent (e.g., a GED), or do not meet the home school requirements, and who first enroll in a program of study on or after July 1, 2012, will not be eligible to receive Title IV student aid. Students still qualify for Title IV student aid under one of the ability-to-benefit (ATB) alternatives if the student was enrolled in a Title IV eligible program prior to July 1, 2012. Those alternatives include the student passing an independently-administered, approved ATB test or successfully completing at least six credit hours or 225 clock hours of postsecondary education. A student who does not possess a high school diploma, or a recognized equivalent, but who is enrolled in a Title IV eligible program any time prior to July 1, 2012 may be eligible to receive Title IV student assistance after July 1, 2012. As of June 30, 2013 approximately 1.4% of our continuing operations student population were ATB students. Federal Pell Grant Duration of Eligibility—The Appropriations Act also amended the HEA to reduce the duration of a student's eligibility to receive a federal Pell Grant from 18 semesters (or its equivalent) to 12 semesters (or its equivalent). This provision applies to all federal Pell Grant eligible students effective with the 2012-13 award year. This may eliminate the ability of some of our students to continue to receive Pell Grants, depending on their prior receipt of Pell Grants from our institutions and from other institutions prior to enrolling in our schools. Our institutions have been unable to accept new ATB students since July 1, 2012, and the financial aid for some of our other students has been reduced or eliminated as a result of the Appropriations Act. If we are not able to effectively recruit additional new students to make up for the ATB students we have been unable to enroll, it could further negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. Future Congressional action, including in reauthorizations or appropriations acts, may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Members of Congress frequently propose legislation to alter or amend the terms under which our institutions participate in the federal student financial aid programs. Recent proposed legislation has 41 Table of Contents included proposals to restrict the use of funds received through federal financial aid in marketing and advertising, proposals to change the 90/10 Rule into an 85/15 Rule, proposals to count all sources of federal funds (including military tuition assistance, workforce investment and other funds outside the Title IV programs that currently count as non-Title IV funds for purposes of the 90/10 Rule) in the same way Title IV funds currently count in the 90/10 Rule. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or ED that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, or the ability of our schools or students to participate in Title IV programs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legislative action also could increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. Congress and other regulatory bodies have conducted hearings and other examinations of the for-profit education sector that could result in further legislation, rulemaking, restrictions on Title IV Program participation by private sector schools, and other adverse action that may materially and adversely affect our business. On July 30, 2012, Chairman Tom Harkin and the Majority Staff of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (the "HELP Committee") released a report, "For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success." While stating that for-profit colleges and universities have an important role to play in higher education and should be well-equipped to meet the needs of non-traditional students who now constitute the majority of the postsecondary educational population, the report was highly critical of these institutions. The report contended that these institutions have a high cost of attendance, engage in aggressive and deceptive recruiting, have high drop-out rates, provide insufficient student support services, and are responsible for high levels of student debt and loan defaults, among other things. The report called for increased disclosure of information about student outcomes at for-profit colleges and universities, prohibiting institutions from using federal financial aid funding to market, advertise and recruit, amending the 90/10 Rule to prohibit these institutions from receiving more than 85 percent of their revenues from federal funds, prohibiting the use of mandatory binding arbitration clauses in enrollment agreements, and other measures ostensibly to protect students and taxpayers. The report was a culmination of a series of hearings held by Chairman Harkin before the HELP Committee since June 2010. We cannot predict the extent to which the Harkin report and other investigations, hearings and legislative proposals will result in further legislation, rulemaking or other adverse actions affecting our participation in Title IV Programs or other aspects of our business. If any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV Programs or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, or which otherwise materially change the way in which we do business, our business could be adversely and materially impacted. If any of our U.S. schools fails to maintain its accreditation or its state authorization, that institution may lose its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant agencies of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for 42 Table of Contents authorization vary substantially among the states. Additionally, both an approval to operate in a state and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by ED are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. If any of our U.S. campuses were to lose its accreditation or its state authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our national accreditors, some programmatic accreditors and some state regulatory agencies require our institutions, campuses and/or programs to achieve specified placement rates within limited time periods after students have graduated, and many of these standards have been raised in recent years. At the same time, job prospects for many college graduates, regardless of the institution they attend or the degree they have earned, have been diminished as new graduates are facing increased competition from workers displaced by the difficult economy with, in some cases, significant work experience. Many graduates, including those who have attended our institutions, have experienced a lengthening of the time it takes to obtain their first job after graduation. We believe our placement rates have been and will continue to be adversely impacted until there is a sustained economic recovery and a higher rate of job growth. If any of our institutions or programs, as applicable, fails to meet national or programmatic accreditor or state regulatory agency minimum placement standards, that institution or program, as applicable, may lose its accreditation or state license, and therefore its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. We have had to cap enrollment in, or teach-out entirely, certain programs due to low placement opportunities for graduates of those programs, and we expect that we will need to take these steps with respect to more programs and/or campuses if we are unable to place our graduates within the time frames required by the accreditors and states that regulate our institutions. These actions reduce our revenues and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Rulemaking by ED could materially adversely affect our business. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools, including ED, periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. In 2009-11, ED proposed, and ultimately adopted, changes to its regulations on the following subjects relating to Title IV Program Integrity: (i) Definition of High School Diploma for the Purpose of Establishing Institutional Eligibility to Participate in the Title IV Programs, and Student Eligibility to Receive Title IV Aid; (ii) Ability to Benefit; (iii) Misrepresentation of Information to Students and Prospective Students; (iv) Incentive Compensation; (v) State Authorization as a Component of Institutional Eligibility; (vi) Gainful Employment in a Recognized Occupation; (vii) Definition of a Credit Hour; (viii) Agreements Between Institutions of Higher Education; (ix) Verification of Information Included on Student Aid Applications; (x) Satisfactory Academic Progress; (xi) Retaking Coursework; (xii) Return of Title IV Funds: Term-based Programs with Modules or Compressed Courses; (xiii) Return of Title IV Funds: Taking Attendance; and (xiv) Disbursements of Title IV Funds. On October 29, 2010, ED published final rules on all 14 Title IV Program Integrity issues, with the exception of the final regulation establishing specific metrics to define "gainful employment." ED published final rules on the "gainful employment metrics" on June 13, 2011 (these new rules are collectively referred to as the "Program Integrity Regulations"). Under the HEA, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV Programs only if their educational programs lead to "gainful employment in a recognized occupation." Historically, this concept has not been defined in detailed regulations. On October 29, 2010 and June 13, 2011, the Department published final regulations on gainful employment. These rules require proprietary postsecondary institutions to provide prospective students with each eligible program's recognized occupations, cost, completion rate, job placement rate and median loan debt of program completers beginning July 1, 2011. These disclosures have increased our administrative burdens and costs and 43 Table of Contents could impact student enrollment. They could also result in increased litigation or arbitration claims and expenses if current or former students or regulatory authorities claim the disclosures are not accurate. Two additional significant sections of these regulations were vacated by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on June 30, 2012. The rules purported to define—for the first time—the standards to measure "preparation for gainful employment in a recognized occupation" for purposes of determining whether a program would be Title IV eligible. The regulations established quantitative standards that purported to measure, for each program of study: (i) the percentage of federal Stafford loans made to former students that were actively paid down in the most recent year, (ii) the ratio of discretionary income to annual student loan payments for the program's completers, and (iii) ratio of actual earnings to annual student loan payments for the program's completers. In addition, the rule as initially adopted required institutions to notify ED at least 90 days before the commencement of new educational programs leading to gainful employment in recognized occupations, and in some cases, would have required that ED approve the program. Although the gainful employment requirements were scheduled to go into effect July 1, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a decision on June 30, 2012 in the case captioned Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities v. Duncan (the "APSCU" litigation) that vacated most of the gainful employment requirements and remanded those regulations to ED for further action. On July 6, 2012, ED issued an electronic announcement acknowledging that the Court had vacated the quantitative gainful employment requirements. ED also noted that institutions are not required to comply with related regulations relating to gainful employment reporting requirements and adding new educational programs, but are required to comply with requirements to disclose certain information about educational programs. After the gainful employment metrics and the new program approval requirements were struck down in the APSCU litigation, the Program Integrity Regulations that could have the most significant potential impact on our business are the following: •the elimination of the 12 Safe Harbors regarding the incentive compensation prohibition; •determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours; •new requirements about what constitutes satisfactory state authorization for institutions to offer postsecondary education in a state; and •the enhanced definition of "substantial misrepresentation" that could impose enhanced liability on institutions of higher education. Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The statutory language of this prohibition does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but between 2002 and June 30, 2011 there were twelve "safe harbors" that defined specific types of compensation that were deemed not to constitute impermissible incentive compensation. Until June 30, 2011, we relied on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices comply with the statutory prohibition. On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations that eliminated all twelve safe harbors, and in lieu of the safe harbors, took the position that any adjustment to compensation based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the incentive payment prohibition in the HEA. The final rule further expands the prohibition to individuals who have "responsibility for" recruitment or admission of students or making decisions about awarding Title IV program funds. ED states that an institution still will be able to make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, but will not be 44 Table of Contents permitted to consider or base compensation directly or indirectly, in any part, on success in securing student enrollments, the award of financial aid or institutional goals based on that success. As a result of these rules which took effect July 1, 2011, we changed our evaluation and compensation practices for admissions and financial aid representatives and certain other employees. This could adversely affect our ability to compensate our admissions and financial aid representatives and other employees in a manner that appropriately reflects their job performance, which in turn could reduce their effectiveness and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified and competent personnel. In addition, a lack of certainty could increase the risk of future Federal False Claims Act qui tam lawsuits in which private plaintiffs assert that our compensation practices violate the incentive compensation rules and, therefore, that our receipt of Title IV funds constitutes a false claim. We have been the subject of at least three such qui tam lawsuits relating to our compensation practices, all of which were initially dismissed at the district court level. The relator in one of the dismissed cases, the Lee case, appealed to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the District Court's dismissal on August 8, 2011, and remanded case to permit the relator to amend its complaint. On December 15, 2011, the first amended Lee complaint was filed in District Court alleging violations of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 against the Company, Ernst & Young LLC, David Moore and Jack Massimino. The Company moved the U.S. District Court to dismiss the amended Lee complaint, and, on April 12, 2013, the District Court dismissed with prejudice the action in its entirety. The relators have appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeal. Clock Hours The final Program Integrity Rules require that a program of study be considered a clock hour program for the purposes of Title IV Program funding when measuring student progress in clock hours is a requirement of receiving Federal or State approval to offer the program (except where such requirement applies only to a practicum, internship, or clinical experience component of the program), or completing clock hours is a requirement for graduates to apply for licensure or the authorization to practice the occupation that the student is intending to pursue. The scope of these rules, particularly as applied to the manner by which programs of study are approved by various states, is unclear. Students attending programs of study that are now required to be measured in clock hours may receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. State Authorization Under the HEA, an institution must be authorized by each State in which it is located to participate in Title IV programs. ED historically has determined that an institution is licensed or otherwise authorized in order to be certified as eligible to participate in Title IV Programs if the institution's State does not require the institution to obtain licensure or authorization to operate in the state. On October 29, 2010, ED's Program Integrity Rules established specific federal requirements with respect to whether or not a State's authorization of an educational institution is sufficient for that institution to participate in Title IV programs. Recognizing that the new regulations may, in effect, require many States to revise existing laws or regulations, the rule issued by ED provided that a State may seek a one-year extension until July 1, 2012 to effectuate such changes, and if necessary obtain a second extension for one additional year. In May 2013, ED announced a further delay until July 1, 2014 of the implementation of the state authorization regulations when an institution's state 45 Table of Contents authorization does not meet the requirements by the earlier delayed implementation date of July 1, 2013. ED provided this further extension to qualifying institutions because several states notified ED that they needed additional time to develop or complete processes in order for some institutions to be able to comply with the state authorization provisions in the Program Integrity Regulations. To receive a further extension, an institution must obtain from the state an explanation of how an additional one-year extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply with ED's requirements. Under the Program Integrity Regulations, for an institution to be eligible to participate in the Title IV programs it must not only be authorized by a state, but that state's law must meet minimum requirements established by ED. These minimum requirements include a satisfactory process for resolving complaints and an adequate state approval process. Our Heald locations in California and Hawaii have historically been exempt from licensure either because no state statute required authorization, or because Heald was exempt from state licensure requirements due to its regional accreditation. In addition to our Heald locations in California and Hawaii, the sufficiency of the state approvals in other states could be determined to be non-compliant with the federal state authorization requirements if ED deems these states' oversight regimes do not meet minimum ED expectations. At this time, ED has not issued any official guidance as to whether these or other states authorization processes meet the regulatory requirements. States may have to adopt additional statutes or regulations in order to comply with the new state authorization regulations by the July 1, 2014 extended deadline and thus for our campuses to remain eligible for Title IV funds in those states. In June 2013, Hawaii passed legislation that establishes a state agency and an oversight regime intended to meet the ED state authorization requirements. Our Heald Hawaii location has not yet applied for approval from the agency, and we have no assurance that such approval will be granted. California also passed legislation in June 2013 allowing institutions that are exempt from state licensure to voluntarily submit to the jurisdiction of the state's Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education. However, in May 2013, we were notified by ED that Heald's corporate formation documents constituted sufficient state authorization to meet ED's regulatory requirements. Based on this notification, we do not believe Heald's California institutions will be required to voluntarily submit to the jurisdiction and oversight of California's Bureau for Private Postsecondary Education; however, we have no assurance that ED will not reach a different conclusion in the future regarding the sufficiency of either Heald's corporate formation documents or California's oversight regime and approval process. If any material number of our campuses are unable to obtain state regulatory approval that continues to satisfy ED's regulations, our business would be adversely impacted. As ED has released no official guidance, the manner in which ED's regulations will apply to our institutions in the various states, and the impact of such regulation on our business, is uncertain. If we are unable to operate in any state in which we derive significant revenue in a manner that would preserve Title IV eligibility for our students, our business would be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, the Program Integrity Regulations concerning state authorization formerly required, among other things, that an institution offering distance learning or online programs secure the approval of those states which require such approval and provide evidence of such approval to ED upon request. On July 12, 2011, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia struck down those portions of the regulations requiring proof of state approval for online education programs on procedural grounds, and that ruling was later upheld on appeal. However, the courts also ruled that ED may elect to re-introduce this rule, and on April 16, 2013, ED indicated that it will initiate a rulemaking process to do so. If when these rules become fully effective any of our locations are unable to obtain state regulatory approval in a manner that satisfies ED's regulations, our business would be adversely impacted. The manner in which ED's regulations will apply to our institutions, and the impact of such regulation on our business, is uncertain. If we are unable to operate in any state in which we derive 46 Table of Contents significant revenue in a manner that would preserve Title IV eligibility for our students, our business would be materially and adversely impacted. Potential Impact of Program Integrity Regulations In addition to the specific issues addressed above, the Program Integrity Regulations issued by ED include provisions regarding the definition of a credit hour; the types of statements by an institution or parties related to an institution that constitute prohibited misrepresentation; written agreements between institutions, particularly institutions under common ownership or control; requirements regarding an institution's return of Title IV program funds; and certain other issues pertaining to a student's eligibility to receive Title IV program funds. We cannot predict how the Program Integrity Regulations will be interpreted, and therefore whether we will be able to comply with these requirements. Compliance with the final rules could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty surrounding application of the final rules may continue for some period of time and could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. New rulemaking by ED could result in regulatory changes that could materially adversely affect our business. In addition to the Program Integrity Regulations described above that were promulgated by ED from 2009 to 2011, in April 2013 ED announced its intention, over the next several years, to conduct rulemakings related to the federal student aid programs. In the near term, ED indicated its plans to address program integrity issues related to the following: cash management of funds provided under the title IV Federal Student Financial Aid programs; state authorization for programs offered through distance education or correspondence education; state authorization for foreign locations of institutions located in a State; clock-to-credit hour conversion; gainful employment; changes made by the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 to the campus safety and security reporting requirements in the HEA; and the definition of "adverse credit" for borrowers in the Federal Direct PLUS Loan Program. ED stated that this agenda may take several years to complete. In June 2013, ED announced its intent to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee to prepare proposed regulations for programs that prepare students for "gainful employment" in a recognized occupation. ED has selected negotiators for the gainful employment negotiated rulemaking committee, and the negotiating sessions are scheduled for September and October 2013. We cannot predict the form of any final rules that may be adopted through this negotiated rulemaking process. If new regulations go into effect that are similar to the rules vacated by the District Court in the APSCU litigation, certain of our programs may be unable to maintain eligibility to enroll students receiving Title IV funds or have restrictions placed upon program offerings as a result of not meeting prescribed metrics. Compliance with any burdensome new regulations adopted by ED through this rulemaking process could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Under the HEOA, an institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years would become immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would not be permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of full two fiscal years. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by ED in its discretion. While ED has discretion 47 Table of Contents to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, it is difficult to predict what those sanctions might be. ED could specify additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution's continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to students attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by ED. If an institution is subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. Our institutions derived between 57.1% and 93.1% of their revenues (on a modified cash basis) from Title IV programs in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013. Two of our total 37 institutions (after giving effect to the merger of nine Heald OPEIDs into one in June 2013) exceeded the 90% threshold in fiscal 2013, Everest Institute in Crosslanes, WV at 93.1% and Everest Institute in Kendall, FL at 92.8%. Combined, these institutions had 521 students at June 30, 2013. In August 2013 we notified ED that these two institutions had 90/10 rates above 90% for the 2013 fiscal year. Additionally, two of our institutions exceeded the 90% threshold in fiscal 2012, ECP and Everest University in Tampa, FL, but these institutions did not exceed 90% threshold in fiscal 2013. An institution must exceed the 90% threshold for two consecutive years before it loses access to Title IV funding. The four institutions that exceeded the 90/10 Rule limit for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 are now considered, under ED regulations, to be certified on a provisional basis for two years and will be subject to possible additional ED sanctions. While ED has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on these institutions. ED could specify a wide range of additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institutions' continued participation in Title IV Programs. When an institution is subject to provisional certification at the time that its program participation agreement expires, ED also has greater discretion in considering the conditions to attach if it recertifies such institution. Some of our efforts to comply with the 90/10 Rule, especially for those institutions that exceed the 90% threshold for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures that reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, perhaps significantly. If the 90/10 Rule is not changed to provide relief for private sector institutions, we may be required to make further changes to our business in order to remain in compliance, which could alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if their current and former students' loan default rates on federally guaranteed student loans are too high. Under the HEA, an institution could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if the federal student loan default rate of its former students is too high. The term "institution" means a main campus and its additional locations, as defined by ED's regulations. ED generally publishes draft Cohort Default Rates in February of each year for the repayment period that ended the prior September 30. 48 Table of Contents Under the HEOA, any institution whose Cohort Default Rate equals or exceeds 30% for any one of the three most recent federal fiscal years, starting with the 2009 cohort, may be found by ED to lack administrative capability, and, on that basis, placed on provisional certification status for up to three years. Additionally, any such institution may be required by its accrediting agency to provide additional information or supplemental reports. Provisional certification status does not limit an institution's access to Title IV Program funds, but does subject that institution to closer review by ED and possible summary adverse action if that institution commits violations of the Title IV Program requirements. Provisional certification may also impede an institution's ability to grow by limiting its ability to add new programs and locations. Any institution whose Cohort Default Rates equals or exceeds 30% for three consecutive years, starting with the 2011 cohort, expected to be published in September 2014, will lose eligibility to participate in the FDL and the Pell grant programs for the remainder of the federal fiscal year in which ED determines that such institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent federal fiscal years. In addition, an institution whose Cohort Default Rate for any federal fiscal year exceeds 40% will have its eligibility to participate in the FDL program limited, suspended or terminated. On an on-going basis, we monitor cohort repayment data, and we are currently monitoring the repayment and default status of the 2011, 2012 and 2013 Cohorts. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high Cohort Default Rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by ED, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, ED calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution's financial responsibility or "composite score." If an institution's score is above 1.5, it is deemed financially responsible without conditions or additional oversight. If an institution's composite score is below 1.5, but within a designated threshold level (the "Zone," which is 1.0 to 1.4), such institution may take advantage of an alternative that allows it to continue to participate in the Title IV Programs for up to three years under additional monitoring and reporting procedures but without having to post a letter of credit in favor of ED. If an institution's composite score falls below the minimum threshold level of 1.0 or is in the Zone for more than three consecutive years, the institution may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED. On a consolidated basis, we met this requirement in fiscal 2012 with a composite score of 1.5. On August 16, 2013, we received a letter from ED regarding its review of the Company's composite score for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2012 (the "ED Letter"). The ED Letter stated that ED had determined the Company's composite scores for fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 were 0.9 and 1.5, respectively, and that the Company would not be required to post a letter of credit with respect to the composite score below 1.0 in fiscal 2011. In its calculations, ED treated the Company's fiscal year 2011 goodwill impairment charge of $203.6 million as an ordinary operating expense, which substantially decreased income and reduced the Company's overall composite score for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 by 1.1 points. The Company continues to believe this treatment of goodwill impairment is inappropriate, as ED regulations require the exclusion of goodwill as an asset in the composite score calculations. In support of its position, the Company provided substantial correspondence to ED detailing its arguments regarding the appropriate treatment of the goodwill impairment charge, including substantive letters from two highly regarded 49 Table of Contents accounting experts. In the ED Letter, ED notes its receipt of this correspondence, but was not persuaded to change its position. The Company continues to disagree with this aspect of ED's determination. As previously reported, in a letter from ED to the Company received November 1, 2012, ED also took the position that $5 million the Company had posted as security deposits with landlords should have been characterized as intangible assets. ED has considered the Company's arguments and information provided and removed this adjustment from the Company's composite score analysis for fiscal 2011. In addition, ED excluded from long-term debt $43 million the Company borrowed under its long-term revolving credit facility at the end of fiscal 2011 in calculating the Company's composite score for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. ED characterized the borrowing as a questionable accounting treatment used to beneficially distort the Company's financial condition. The Company disagrees with this determination. All borrowings at June 30, 2011 were properly recorded in the Company's June 30, 2011 audited balance sheet as long-term debt in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Therefore, the borrowing should be treated as long-term debt for purposes of its composite score calculation. Further, the Company believes the presence and use of its revolving credit facility helps demonstrate that the Company has the financial resources and liquidity to meet its operational needs. With respect to the Company's composite score for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, ED determined that the Company's composite score was 1.5. However, ED advised that it is continuing to review the portion of the Company's long-term debt balance at June 30, 2012 relating to "$16.3 million in Borrowings Under Student Notes Receivable Sale Agreement" as described in Note 6 to the Company's 2012 audited financial statements. (The Company notes that the gross amount of "Borrowings under student notes receivable sale agreement" in Note 6 of the Company's 2012 audited financial statements is actually $13.0 million, including current portion of $3.4 million. It appears from our review of the ED letter that ED may have inadvertently double-counted the current portion of that borrowing in arriving at the $16.3 million figure cited in the ED Letter.) ED indicated that its review of this transaction's effect on the Company's 2012 composite score is "expected to take some time," but noted that in the interim "no further adjustments to the CCI financial score for FY 2012 are anticipated." The Company will cooperate with ED in its review. The Company continues to disagree with ED's treatment of the fiscal year 2011 goodwill impairment as well as ED's exclusion of a portion of the Company's long-term debt from the calculation of the Company's fiscal year 2011 composite score. The Company's revolving credit facility requires the Company to maintain a composite score of no less than 1.5. ED's determination that our fiscal 2011 score was 0.9 could be considered an event of default under our revolving credit agreement. We have provided the ED Letter to our lenders, and they have granted a waiver for fiscal 2011. For our fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, our calculations show that, on a consolidated basis, we have a passing composite score of 1.5. ED has not yet concurred with our calculations of the composite score for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013, and we will not submit our calculations for some time. We believe our calculations for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2012 and 2013, both of which are still open, are correct. However, if ED were to conclude that we achieved a financial responsibility of less than 1.0 in any given year, or that we were in the "zone" for three years in a row, we could be required to satisfy the standards of financial responsibility on an alternative basis, including potentially by posting an irrevocable letter of credit equal to at least 10 percent of our prior year's Title IV receipts. Additionally, any definitive determination by ED that our composite score is less than 1.5 in fiscal years 2012 or 2013 could be a default under our credit agreement. We cannot provide assurance that ED will agree with our calculations, or that our institutions will continue to satisfy the financial responsibility standards in the future. If we were found by ED to have not satisfied the financial 50 Table of Contents responsibility standards, or if we fail to satisfy such standards in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our access to Title IV funds, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if they do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that was disbursed to students who withdrew from their educational programs before completing them, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we have to post letters of credit in favor of ED or be otherwise sanctioned by ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution was found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. We currently have outstanding letters of credit posted in favor of ED in the aggregate amount of $13.7 million. The requirement to post additional letters of credit or other sanctions by ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. If regulators do not approve our acquisitions, the acquired school(s) would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. When we acquire an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, we must seek approval from ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies because an acquisition is considered a change of ownership or control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. A change of ownership or control of an institution under ED standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with ED and ED issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from the state agencies, accrediting agencies or ED for any institution we may acquire in the future, depending on the size of that acquisition, such a failure to obtain approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Additionally, if regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control of the Company, all of our institutions may lose their ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. If we experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies or ED, we or the affected institutions must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Some of these transactions or events, such as a significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock by third parties on the open market or through a tender offer, may be beyond our control. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control could also discourage bids for our outstanding shares of common stock at a premium and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 51 Table of Contents If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to ED, our business could suffer. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite "administrative capability" to participate in federal student financial aid programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: •comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; •have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; •have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; •provide financial aid counseling to its students; and •submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, ED may: •require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds; •transfer the institution from the "advance" system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the "reimbursement" system of payment or cash monitoring; •place the institution on provisional certification status; and •commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in federal student financial aid programs. Should one or more of our institutions be limited in their access to, or lose, federal student financial aid funds due to their failure to demonstrate administrative capability, our business could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, commence investigations, bring claims or institute litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject from time to time to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. In this regard, the Company currently has open program being conducted by ED at the following stages: (i) Everest College Phoenix ("ECP") has received program review reports and provided written responses regarding the site visits ED conducted at ECP in 2008 and 2010, but has not yet received final determinations for either program review, and (ii) ED has conducted site visits at the Company's campuses in Largo, FL in August 2012, Pompano Beach, FL in September 2012, Renton, WA in September 2012, Salinas, CA in June 2013, Southfield, MI in June 2013, Stockton, CA in July 2013, and Long Beach, CA in August 2013, but has not yet issued program review reports with respect to any of those site visits. Additionally, under the old Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) Program, which has since been replaced by the FDL program, nonprofit and state guaranty agencies were established to guarantee student loans made by lenders and perform certain administrative and oversight functions under the FFEL program. Guaranty agencies perform program occasional reviews at schools to ensure that schools are meeting all regulatory requirements and guarantor policies in the FFEL program. Eleven guaranty agency program review site visits were conducted in our institutions during fiscal year 2013, and nine program review reports have been issued. The Company is in the process of responding to these reports, including conducting file reviews with respect to findings identified in the reports. If the results of the compliance reviews, audits or investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to repay federal student 52 Table of Contents aid, pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding compliance review, investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the "reimbursement" or "heightened cash monitoring" method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. Certain regulatory authorities have initiated investigations into us and other companies in the for-profit education sector that could result in adverse actions, fines, penalties or other censure that may materially and adversely affect our business. Since October 2010 the Company has been contacted by attorneys general offices in the states of Florida, Massachusetts, Oregon, New York, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, and Illinois. Each of those states' attorneys general office has requested from the Company, either through subpoenas, civil investigative demands, or informal requests, extensive document requests regarding our business. The Oregon Attorney General's office closed its investigation after nearly a year-long inquiry without taking any enforcement action. In every state but Wisconsin, we understand the attorneys general are conducting broad inquiries into private sector education companies in their respective states, and not solely into the Company. On April 11, 2011 the Company's Everest Institute in Jonesboro, Georgia was sent a subpoena from the Atlanta office of ED's Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") requesting documents related to the Jonesboro campus's employment and placement rates reported to its accrediting agency, as well as correspondence with the accrediting agency. The Company has become aware that this matter is being supervised by an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia who focuses primarily on civil False Claims Act matters, including qui tams. The Company does not know whether a qui tam action has been filed under seal or whether the United States Attorney's Office has made a determination about whether to file a False Claims Act lawsuit in this matter. Additionally, the Company has also received inquiries from the Department of Justice and the Assistant U.S. Attorney involved in reviewing the previously-disclosed Lee qui tam matter regarding the Company's attendance procedures. The Company infers, but has been unable to confirm, that these inquiries may relate to one or more additional qui tams filed under seal that may be pending the government's investigation and intervention decision. Separately, on April 24, 2012, a complaint captioned United States of America ex rel. Carolina Marion v. Heald College Inc. and Corinthian Colleges Inc. was filed under seal in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Since the complaint was filed under seal, the Company has not been able to obtain a copy of the complaint but infers that this too is a qui tam action brought under the False Claims Act. The Company has also received an inquiry from the Assistant U.S. Attorney apparently involved in reviewing the Marion matter regarding attendance procedures at the Heald Salinas campus. On April 3, 2012, the Company was served with a Civil Investigative Demand ("CID") from the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"). The CID stated that its purpose is to "determine whether for-profit postsecondary companies, student loan origination and servicing providers, or other unnamed persons, have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or practices relating to the advertising, marketing, or origination of private student loans." The CID contains extensive interrogatories and document production demands related to the Company's involvement with student loans and many other aspects of the Company's business. The Company has objected to the 53 Table of Contents inquiry by filing a petition with the CFPB to set aside or modify the CID, but has voluntarily provided documents and other information to the CFPB. Recently, the CFPB indicated an intention to withdraw the existing CID and issue a new CID to the Company. In June 2013, the Company received correspondence and subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission indicating that the SEC is conducting an investigation of the Company. The SEC has requested the production of documents and communications that, among other things, relate to student information in the areas of recruitment, attendance, completion, placement, defaults on federal loans and on alternative loans, as well as compliance with U.S. Department of Education financial requirements, standards and ratios (including the effect of certain borrowings under the Company's revolving credit facility on the Company's composite score, and 90/10 compliance), and other corporate, operational, financial and accounting matters. We are continuing to cooperate with these investigations, but we cannot predict their ultimate resolution. We expect to continue to incur significant legal costs and other expenses in connection with responding to them. We may be required to pay damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage, if any, related to these matters. Government investigations, including the pending investigations in which we are involved, and any related legal and administrative proceedings, may result in the institution of administrative, injunctive or other proceedings against us and/or our institutions, officers or employees, or the imposition of fines, penalties or suspensions, or other remedies and sanctions. Any such material costs and expenses or injunctive relief could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Investigations, claims and actions against other companies in our sector could adversely affect our business and stock price. During the past decade, we and other companies in the for-profit postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the Justice Department, state attorneys general, the SEC, ED, state agencies, accrediting agencies and other entities. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the for-profit postsecondary education sector in general, our business and the market price of our common stock. Failure to comply with extensive Canadian regulations could affect the ability of our Canadian schools to participate in Canadian financial aid programs. Our post-secondary schools in Canada derive a significant percentage of their revenue on a cash basis from Canadian governmental financial aid programs, and our Canadian students receive loans under student financial aid programs. Our Canadian schools must meet eligibility standards to administer these programs and must comply with extensive statutes, rules, regulations and requirements. If our Canadian schools cannot meet these and other eligibility standards or fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the Canadian and Ontario provincial governments continuously review the legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student financial assistance programs due to political and budgetary pressures. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the funding for these programs, any change that significantly reduces funding or the ability of our schools to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 54 Table of Contents Operational and Economic Risks That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business North American macroeconomic conditions, particularly unemployment, could affect the demand for our services. The North American economy has been in the midst of a prolonged economic downturn in recent years. These conditions contributed to a portion of our enrollment growth from fiscal 2008 to 2011 as more potential new students were attracted to our schools to advance their education and improve their job prospects in the midst of severe unemployment in the U.S. economy. Improvements in the North American economy, including overall reductions in unemployment, have negatively affected overall demand for our educational services and contributed to declines in new student enrollment over the last two fiscal years, and could continue to do so. A more robust economic recovery in North America may further negatively impact demand for our services from potential new students, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our discount student loan programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our discount student loan programs have enabled students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and are ineligible for private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools if they or a co-borrower meet certain criteria. Historically, we had developed several loan programs with origination and servicing providers such as Sallie Mae for students with low credit scores who otherwise would not qualify for loans. These loan programs required that we pay a discount fee to the origination and servicing providers of the loans as a reserve against future defaults on these loans. We have historically referred to these types of loans as "discount loans," since we incurred a portion of the default risk related to these students' loans by taking a discount on the disbursement from the third party. In early 2008 we were informed by Sallie Mae and two other origination and servicing providers that they would no longer make private loans available for students. In the face of this change in policy, we created a new student lending program with a different origination and servicing provider, Genesis. This Genesis loan program has characteristics similar to our previous "discount loan" programs. Under the Genesis loan program, we paid a discount to the origination and servicing provider. As with our previous discount loan program, we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, as the collectability of these amounts is not reasonably assured. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our Genesis discount loan program we have both the right and the obligation (subject to certain limitations in our agreement with Genesis), to acquire the related loans. Since we initiated the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we acquired all of the loans that have been originated thereunder. On June 29, 2012, we amended the loan origination agreement and related documents with ASFG. The original agreement with ASFG was entered into on June 29, 2011 for the purpose of creating a new private education discount loan program for our students. Pursuant to the amended loan origination agreement, ASFG has indicated it intends to purchase approximately $775 million in new student loans through June 2015. Under this agreement, an unaffiliated bank makes private education loans to eligible students and, subsequently, sell those loans to ASFG or its designee. If ASFG is unable or unwilling to purchase such loans, our students would lose an important source of funding for their education, and we would lose an important source of cash flows. Additionally, the loss of any significant source of non-Title IV funding for our students would make it difficult for us to comply with the 90/10 Rule and failure to be able to comply with the rule would materially negatively affect our business. The ASFG loan program has characteristics similar to our previous "discount loan" programs. As with the previous discount third party discount loan programs, under this ASFG program we pay an 55 Table of Contents upfront discount to ASFG for any notes purchased by ASFG and record the upfront discount as a deferred charge and amortize the charge as a reduction to revenue ratably over the program length as the related revenue is recognized. However, unlike our previous third party discount loan programs, pursuant to a backup loan purchase agreement entered into in connection with the loan origination agreement, we have guaranteed to purchase any of the student notes on which no payment has been made for over 90 days. Under this backup loan purchase agreement, our maximum obligation (including the initial discount payment) could be equal to the face amount of loans originated under this loan program, although the Company expects its ultimate risk under this loan program to be substantially similar to the risks it faces under our Genesis discount loan program. Federal, state and local laws and public policy relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we purchase under this program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the new student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the new student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. The CFPB may also take the position that these loans constitute unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices. For the Genesis and ASFG discount loans we acquire or have acquired, we bear the risks of collection. Therefore, even though we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, to the extent collections are less than the net amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience increases in our allowance for doubtful accounts and our discount expense may increase. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers' performance and the priority that borrowers, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. All of these factors could result in the Genesis and ASFG discount loan programs having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business will be harmed. We offer a payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing and advertising efforts may not be effective in attracting prospective students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our revenue and margins may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our 56 Table of Contents marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students, current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results, and diminished access to high school campuses. If we cannot effectively identify, acquire and integrate additional schools, it could harm our business. We expect to continue to rely on acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We often engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible acquisition candidates. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire any of the acquisition candidates on favorable terms. Furthermore, we cannot make assurances that any acquired schools can be successfully integrated into our operations or be operated profitably. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that include: •diversion of management resources; •integration of the acquired schools' operations; •adverse short-term effects on reported operating results; and •possible loss of key employees. Continued growth through acquisitions may also subject us to unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities. When we acquire an existing school, we typically allocate a significant portion of the purchase price to fixed assets, curriculum, goodwill and intangibles, such as covenants not-to-compete, trade names and accreditations. The Company does not amortize goodwill, accreditation, or trade names as these assets meet the indefinite life criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Curricula are amortized over their useful lives ranging generally from three to fifteen years and student relationships are amortized over their useful life of one year. Goodwill is tested annually or more frequently for impairment. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair values to their carrying amounts. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have indefinite lives are amortized over their useful lives. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school's participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains ED's approval. If we fail to successfully manage our acquisitions, our business would likely suffer. Our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair value to the carrying amount at the reporting unit level as defined by the accounting guidance. We determined the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach, based on discounted cash flow, and a market-based approach. To the extent the fair value of a reporting unit is less that the carrying amount of its assets, we record an impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations. In connection with receipt of federal financial aid by the Company's students, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. Compliance with the regulations promulgated by these various bodies could have a material impact on the manner in which the Company conducts its business. Should the Company need to take additional actions to comply with current and future regulations, the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of our reporting units, including estimation of future cash flows, revenue growth, and discount rates, could be negatively impacted and could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If our stock price remains depressed or declines further, or if for any other reason we are required to significantly write down the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 57 Table of Contents Failure to effectively manage opening new schools and adding new services could harm our business. Establishing new schools requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. To open a new school, we are also required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, the new school is required to be certified as eligible to receive Title IV funds by ED. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully open new schools in the future. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We depend on key personnel, including Jack D. Massimino, Kenneth S. Ord, Robert D. Bosic, Beth A. Wilson, William B. Buchanan, Stan A. Mortensen, and Robert C. Owen, to effectively operate our business. If any of these people left our Company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new people, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and campus support center management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay, defer or inhibit a future acquisition of our Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. By using preferred stock, we could: •discourage a proxy contest; •make the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult; or •limit the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our schools are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving our current and former students, alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage or current reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We could also incur substantial legal costs, and management's attention and resources could be diverted from our business. 58 Table of Contents Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our business. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Educational programs at our schools, particularly programs in information technology, must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive, and has become ever more so over the past several years. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer on-line learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to those of our schools. Although tuition at many private non-profit institutions is higher than tuition at our schools, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could reduce our ability to grow. We may need additional debt or equity financing in order to carry out our growth strategies. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary depending on the timing and size of acquisitions, our availability to access credit markets, the sellers' willingness to provide financing themselves and our other cash and liquidity needs. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes or economic downturns occur in specific geographic areas where we have a high concentration of schools, our business could be harmed. We have large numbers of schools concentrated in certain geographic areas. For instance, we have a high concentration of schools in California, Florida, Texas, Georgia, Michigan, the Province of Ontario and other states and cities. We expect to continue to have high concentrations of schools in large metropolitan areas as we create new branch campuses and acquire new schools. These geographic concentrations may change or intensify over time. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes, economic developments or other adverse events occur or are more intensively felt in some of these concentrated geographic areas, our business and results of operations could be disproportionately affected compared to the rest of the United States and Canada. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 