ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. As a result of the risks set forth below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, and the risks discussed in our other Securities and Exchange Commission filings, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. We depend on attracting and retaining qualified consultants. Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain consultants who possess the skills and experience necessary to fulfill our clients’ executive search needs. Our ability to hire and retain qualified consultants could be impaired by any diminution of our reputation, decrease in compensation levels relative to our competitors or modifications of our total compensation philosophy or competitor hiring programs. If we cannot attract, hire and retain qualified consultants, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We may not be able to prevent our consultants from taking our clients with them to another firm. Our success depends upon our ability to develop and maintain strong, long-term relationships with our clients. Although we work on building these relationships between our firm and our clients, in many cases, one or two consultants have primary responsibility for a client relationship. When a consultant leaves one executive search firm and joins another, clients who have established relationships with the departing consultant may move their business to the consultant’s new employer. We may also lose clients if the departing consultant has widespread name recognition or a reputation as a specialist in executing searches in a specific industry or management function. Historically, we have not experienced significant revenue loss from this potential client portability. If we fail to limit departing consultants from moving business to another employer, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to maintain our professional reputation and brand name. We depend on our overall reputation and brand name recognition to secure new engagements and hire qualified consultants. Our success also depends on the individual reputations of our consultants. We obtain many of our new engagements from existing clients or from referrals by those clients. A client who is dissatisfied with our work can adversely affect our ability to secure new engagements. If any factor hurts our reputation, including poor performance, we may experience difficulties in competing successfully for both new engagements and qualified consultants. Failure to maintain our professional reputation and brand name could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because our clients may restrict us from recruiting their employees we may be unable to fill existing executive search assignments. Clients frequently require us to refrain from recruiting certain of their employees when conducting executive searches on behalf of other clients. These restrictions generally remain in effect for no more than one year following the commencement of an engagement. However, the specific duration and scope of the off-limits arrangements depend on the length of the client relationship, the frequency with which the client engages us to perform searches, the number of assignments we have performed for the client and the potential for future business with the client. If a prospective client believes that we are overly restricted by these off-limits arrangements from recruiting the employees of our existing clients, these prospective clients may not engage us to perform their executive searches, and as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. 7 Table of Contents We face aggressive competition. The global executive search industry is extremely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with other large global executive search firms and with smaller specialty firms. Specialty firms can focus on regional or functional markets or on particular industries. Some of our competitors may possess greater resources, greater name recognition and longer operating histories than we do in particular markets or practice areas. There are limited barriers to entry into the search industry and new search firms continue to enter the market. Many executive search firms that have a smaller client base may be subject to fewer off-limits arrangements. In addition, our clients or prospective clients may decide to perform executive searches using in-house personnel. Finally, competitors sometimes reduce their fees in order to attract clients and increase market share. Because we typically do not discount our fees, we may experience some loss of net revenue. We may not be able to continue to compete effectively with existing or potential competitors. Our inability to meet these competitive challenges could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely heavily on information management systems. Our success depends upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information. To achieve our goals, we must continue to improve and upgrade our information management systems. We may be unable to license, design and implement, in a cost-effective and timely manner, improved information systems that allow us to compete effectively. In addition, business process reengineering efforts may result in a change in software platforms and programs. Such efforts may result in an acceleration of depreciation expense over the shortened expected remaining life of the software and present transitional problems. In addition, if we experience any interruptions or loss in our information processing capabilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We face the risk of liability in the services we perform. We are exposed to potential claims with respect to the executive search process. A client could assert a claim for violations of off-limits arrangements, breaches of confidentiality agreements or professional malpractice. The growth and development of our other leadership advisory services brings with it the potential for new types of claims. In addition, candidates and client employees could assert claims against us. Possible claims include failure to maintain the confidentiality of the candidate’s employment search or for discrimination or other violations of the employment laws or malpractice. In various countries, we are subject to data protection laws impacting the processing of candidate information. We maintain professional liability insurance in amounts and coverage that we believe are adequate; however, we cannot guarantee that our insurance will cover all claims or that coverage will always be available. Significant uninsured liabilities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our multinational operations may be adversely affected by social, political, legal and economic risks. We generate substantial revenue outside the United States. We offer our services through offices in 35 countries around the world. We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, legal and economic conditions inherent in international operations which could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we conduct business in countries where the legal systems, local laws and trade practices are unsettled and evolving. Commercial laws in these countries are sometimes vague, arbitrary and inconsistently applied. Under these circumstances, it is difficult for us to determine at all times the exact requirements of such local laws. If we fail to comply with local laws, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. In addition, the global nature of our operations poses challenges to our management, and financial and accounting systems. Failure to meet these challenges could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to align our cost structure with net revenue. We must ensure that our costs and workforce continue to be in proportion to demand for our services. Failure to align our cost structure and headcount with net revenue could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our net revenue may be affected by adverse economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity, such as that currently being experienced can adversely affect our net revenue. In particular, current volatility in the capital markets can affect our net revenue in the Financial Services industry group. If economic conditions fail to improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The global financial crisis could adversely affect our business. The ongoing financial crisis has tightened credit markets and lowered liquidity levels. Some of our clients may experience serious financial problems due to reduced access to credit and lower revenues resulting in their inability to meet their payment obligation to us. We do not yet know if salary cap legislation passed or proposed will have an effect on net revenues. Our fees for executive search services are generally based on a percentage of a placed executive’s first year compensation. As part of its economic stimulus package, the United States Congress has enacted legislation that could cap compensation for certain senior executive positions at organizations, principally in the financial services sector, that have received US taxpayer funds in order to continue operating. In addition, it is possible that our clients may, regardless of the application of the salary cap legislation to their business, impose limits on senior executive pay or reduce compensation levels for the positions they retain us to fill. In either case, lower or capped executive salaries in the future could have a negative impact on our revenues and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to generate sufficient profits to realize the benefit of our net deferred tax assets. We establish valuation allowances against deferred tax assets when there is insufficient evidence that we will be able to realize the benefit of these deferred tax assets. We reassess the realizability of the deferred tax assets as facts and circumstances dictate. If after future assessments of the realizability of the deferred tax assets, we determine that a lessor or greater allowance is required, we record a reduction or increase to the income tax expense and the valuation allowance in the period of such determination. Our inability to successfully integrate consultants hired through acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our business. We may continue to grow through selective acquisitions, however, we may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on satisfactory terms or integrate the acquired businesses effectively and profitably into our existing operations. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to complete the integration of acquisitions successfully into our operations. Failure to successfully integrate new employees and complementary businesses may adversely affect our profitability by creating operating inefficiencies that could increase operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues and reduce operating income. Further, after any acquisition, the acquired businesses’ clients may choose not to move their business to us causing an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We may experience impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets. Periodically, we perform assessments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. In performing these assessments, we must make assumptions regarding the estimated fair value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. These assumptions include estimates of future market growth and trends, forecasted revenue and costs, capital investments, discount rates, and other variables. If the current weakening economic conditions continue to negatively impact our financial performance, we may fail to achieve our projected operating results and may need to record an impairment charge related to goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets. Any resulting impairment loss could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have anti-takeover provisions that make an acquisition of us difficult and expensive. Anti-takeover provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and the Delaware laws make it difficult and expensive for someone to acquire us in a transaction which is not approved by our Board of Directors. Some of the provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws include: • a classified board of directors • limitations on the removal of directors • limitations on stockholder actions • the ability to issue one or more series of preferred stock by action of our Board of Directors These provisions could discourage an acquisition attempt or other transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium over the current market price for the common stock. Our ability to access additional credit could be limited. In the current economic environment, banks can be expected to strictly enforce the terms of our credit agreement. Although we are currently in compliance with the financial covenants of our revolving credit facility, a further deterioration of economic conditions may negatively impact our business resulting in our failure to comply with these covenants in the future, which could limit our ability to borrow funds under our credit facility. In such circumstances, we may not be able to secure alternative financing or may only be able to do so at significantly higher costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 