Risk Factors. The following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and financial results. Continuing uncertainty in the global economy and the financial markets could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Continuing global economic uncertainty and financial market instability, as well as the impact of the recent recession and the risk of a prolonged period of weak or uncertain economic and business conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. These conditions also could materially impact our members and prospective members, including our large accounts, causing them to defer purchasing their first product; defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of memberships they purchase from us in the future; or terminate existing memberships under our service guarantee. These conditions also could materially impact our vendors causing them to go out of business entirely or be unable or unwilling to meet their commitments to us. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or adapt to uncertain or changing economic and financial markets conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the continuing global economic uncertainty could reduce the overall demand for professional information services as global companies and government entities continue to manage purchasing, departmental budgets, and company-wide discretionary spending. While we market and sell our products throughout the year, a significant percentage of our new business and renewal bookings historically have taken place in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Significant economic uncertainty during these time periods could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our current and future financial results. We may continue to anticipate downward pressure on our operating margins. We have worked aggressively to align our cost structure with our revenue profile. In 2009, we implemented a range of expense management activities, including the elimination of lower-performing programs, workforce reductions, discretionary expense controls, and real estate subleases. While total bookings, new business, cross-sales, and renewal bookings improved in 2010, and we expect them to continue to improve in 2011, investments in headcount and other select areas such as sales, marketing and product development, as well as the addition of acquired companies, continue to apply downward pressure to margins. As a result, we anticipate these factors will combine with the lag between Contract Value growth and revenue growth to apply continued pressure on operating margins in the near-term. 8 Table of Contents We may fail to attract new members to our programs, obtain renewals from existing members, or sell additional programs to existing members. We derive most of our revenues from annual memberships for our products and services. Revenue growth depends on our ability to attract prospects to their first membership, sustain a high renewal rate of existing memberships, and sell additional products and services to existing members. Attracting prospects, renewing members, and selling additional products and services to existing members depends upon our ability to understand and anticipate market and pricing trends and members’ needs, deliver high-quality and timely advice to members, and deliver products and services that are more desirable than those of our competition. Failure to achieve new member additions to deliver acceptable member renewal rate levels, or to cross-sell additional memberships to existing members at the level we forecast, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may experience difficulty collecting membership fees as a result of operating conditions at our member institutions resulting from current economic conditions. While we believe we have a stable member base and have experienced strong collections in the past, if economic weakness continues in geographies where we have members, we may experience increased turnover in our member base, including reductions in members’ commitments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot predict how the strength or duration of the continuing global economic weakness may negatively impact our members’ ability to pay us on a timely basis or at all. Payment delinquencies at higher rates than we have estimated would adversely affect our operating results. If we do not retain members for the duration of their membership terms, we would suffer a loss of future revenues due to our service guarantee. We offer a service guarantee to most members under which a member may request a refund of the membership fee for a research program. When available, refunds are provided on a proportionate basis relative to the unused period of the membership term. Requests for refunds by a significant number of our members could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. We cannot predict the duration of the continuing economic weakness, which may cause more members to request refunds. Failure to retain members for the duration of their membership term at the level we forecast could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may have difficulty anticipating member needs and demands, providing relevant support and advice, and developing new, profitable products and services. Our products and services provide insights, information, and advice to business executives and professionals. Our continuing and future success depends upon our ability to anticipate changing market trends and adapt our research, analysis, advice, new product development, pricing, and sales and service model to the evolving needs of our members, including in new and developing industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies, and by maintaining and upgrading our technology and information infrastructure. The industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies that we serve undergo frequent changes, including the introduction of new products and the obsolescence of old products, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of users of members’ products and services. This environment presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research and analysis on issues of importance and to develop new products. In addition, our members’ needs and demands with respect to how they access our products and services (including a potential increasing desire for the availability of online products and services) and how we manage the member relationship may change significantly over time. Accordingly, we continue to fund the development of new products and services, including for new geographies, and we have invested in improvements to our technology and information management infrastructure and our sales and service model to better serve our new and existing members. If the new products and services we have developed are not timely or relevant, or if we fail to or are unsuccessful in our efforts to optimize our technology and information management infrastructure, and therefore do not serve members in a manner that meets their evolving needs, we may experience increased member turnover, lower new business and renewal bookings, and decreased cross-sales of additional products to existing members, which would adversely affect our financial results and future growth. 9 Table of Contents Our restructuring plans during the recent recession may have unanticipated negative results. We announced restructuring plans in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in the second quarter of 2009 due to the severe global recession. These restructuring plans reduced our workforce; realigned our products and services, including consolidation or retirement of certain products, to focus on five corporate decision centers and industries we serve; and implemented an integrated approach to account management. Our restructuring plans involved significant changes to our business and operations, which created risk and uncertainty. While the intent of the restructuring plans was to enhance our product and service offerings, strengthen our relations with existing and prospective members, revise our sales and service model, and improve our efficiency as an organization, the intended benefits may take longer to realize than we projected. We may not have identified the appropriate products to consolidate or retire, and additional consolidation and/or retirement may be required. We may not have identified the appropriate products to focus on or invest in, and adjustments to our areas of focus and investment may be required. The plans may adversely affect our relationships with existing and prospective members, causing them to defer joining their first program, reduce the number of programs they join, cancel or choose not to renew existing memberships, or terminate their memberships before the end of the term under our service guarantee. If we do not realize the intended benefits of the restructuring, or if the restructuring has other negative effects, our business, financial results, and reputation may be harmed. We may not compete successfully and, as a result, may experience reduced or limited demand for our products and services. The information, professional services, research, networking, and advisory services industry is a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, numerous substitute products and services, and many differentiators, including quality and size of the member network, pricing, quality of research and analysis, breadth of databases, and range and scope of product and service offerings. We compete against traditional consulting firms, information services firms, training and development firms, trade associations, nonprofit organizations, and research and database companies. We also compete against providers of free content over the Internet and through other delivery channels. In order to compete successfully and achieve our growth targets, we must successfully serve new and existing members with current products and services while developing and investing in new and competitive products and services for U.S. and international members. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors, both in terms of the quality and scope of our products and services, and in terms of price, could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Continued weakness, consolidation, and business failures, and increased and uncertain regulation, in the financial services industry may cause us to lose additional members or limit the growth of our existing members in that industry. A number of our products and services provide insights and information to business leaders in the financial services industry. The financial services industry has experienced turmoil, consolidation, business failures, business contraction, reduced profitability, and increased and uncertain regulation since the second half of 2007. At December 31, 2010, approximately 21% of our Contract Value was attributable to members in the financial services industry, which includes commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, consumer credit lenders, brokerage houses, private and trust banks and insurance companies. The instability, consolidation, business failures, business contraction, reduced profitability, and increased and uncertain regulation have resulted, and are expected to continue to result, in a reduction in the number of members and prospective members from the financial services industry. Additional uncertainty, consolidation, business failures, business contraction, reduced profitability, and increased and uncertain regulation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our financial results and future growth. Our international operations involve financial, legal, regulatory, business, operational, and geopolitical risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations. We are continuing to scale our infrastructure to support our businesses outside the United States, with offices in several foreign countries, including in the United Kingdom, Canada, India, Australia, Singapore, and Germany. We sell our membership programs in approximately 50 foreign countries, and those international sales accounted for approximately 32% of our revenues in 2010. Our international operations involve financial, legal, regulatory, business, operational, and geopolitical risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our U.S. operations. These risks include cultural and language differences; limited brand recognition relative to existing and established competitors; difficulties in developing products and services tailored to the needs of members outside the U.S., including in emerging markets; difficulties in serving members outside the U.S., including in emerging markets; difficulties in managing overseas operations; higher operating costs; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; differing accounting principles and standards; differing economic conditions and market fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; different and potentially less stable political and operational environments for our employees and our members; catastrophic events that could interrupt or adversely affect operations; less favorable employment laws that could affect our relations with our employees; different legal requirements, compliance obligations, and regulatory systems; and different data security and privacy rules. Our failure to manage our international operations and business effectively could adversely affect our operating results, limit growth, and damage our reputation. 10 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign currency risk. Our international operations subject us to risks related to foreign currency exchange fluctuations. Prices for our products are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars, even when sold outside the United States. However, many of the costs associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies. For our foreign subsidiaries, monetary balance sheet and related income statement accounts, representing claims receivable or payable in a fixed number of foreign currency units regardless of changes in exchange rates, are re-measured at the current exchange rate with exchange gains and losses recorded in income. Non-monetary balance sheet items and related income statement accounts, which do not result in a fixed future cash inflow or outflow of foreign currency units, are re-measured at their historical exchange rates. As a consequence, if the U.S. dollar weakens against the foreign currencies in countries where we have foreign operations (which include the United Kingdom, India, Australia, Singapore, and Germany), our operating costs in those countries would increase (on a U.S. dollar basis) and reduce our earnings. We use financial instruments, primarily cash flow hedging instruments, to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency commitments related to our operations in the United Kingdom. The maximum length of time of these hedging contracts is 12 months. Although we believe that our foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, they may only partially offset any adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially if these changes are extreme and occur over a short period of time. Our global transition to an integrated account management model may have unanticipated negative results or take longer than anticipated to realize the intended benefits. In 2009 and 2010, we integrated our sales and service model, including in Europe, to increase individual member impact. While we integrated the sales and service functions to strengthen our relations with existing and prospective members and deliver greater value to them from our products and services, we may not realize some or any of these intended benefits, or it may take longer than anticipated to realize the intended benefits, including in Europe. The integrated sales and service model may adversely affect our relationships with existing and prospective members, causing them to defer joining their first program, reduce the number of programs they join, cancel or choose not to renew existing memberships, or terminate their memberships before the end of the term under our service guarantee. Our transition to an integrated account management model continues to require our sales and service staff to learn additional or new skills, roles, and responsibilities. Our failure to adequately train employees for new account management roles could result in a failure to achieve our sales goals, which could adversely affect our financial results. It also could reduce employee morale and productivity. Our acquisitions involve financial, operational, human resources, and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our existing operations. We may make acquisitions that bring us capabilities and intellectual properties that address gaps in member needs and workflows. The acquisitions generally do not result in immediate material changes to our revenues and earnings, however, these acquisitions could require significant capital infusions. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund potential acquisitions by selling equity or debt securities or by securing a bank credit facility. Depending on the prevailing market conditions at the time we seek to obtain any such additional capital, we may be unable to obtain the necessary funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Our acquisitions involve financial, operational, human resources, business, legal, and regulatory risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our ongoing U.S. operations, including: difficulties and costs of integrating and maintaining the operations, personnel, technologies, products, vendors, and information systems of the companies we acquire; assumption of potential unknown risks and liabilities; difficulties achieving the target synergies, efficiencies, and cost savings; failure to retain key personnel and members; the acquisition of products with lower margins than our existing products; entry into and ongoing management of new geographical or product markets; exposure under arrangements such as earn-outs, employment agreements, and other acquisition-related agreements; the diversion of financial and management resources; and the integration of a different set of products and services into our existing operations. As a result of these risks, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits, which could adversely affect our operating results and limit future growth. Acquisitions may involve additional costs and could result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense, and the recording of amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for revenue, income taxes and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As we implement Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) 2009-13 for arrangements with multiple deliverables, our reported revenues could decline or we could be forced to make changes in our products offerings or business practices. Under current accounting literature, our program offerings are a single unit of accounting and service revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis (SAB 104). Effective January 1, 2011, there is new guidance for revenue recognition of arrangements with multiple deliverables under ASU 2009-13 that focuses on the separability of deliverables. ASU 2009-13 modifies the criteria applied to determine if a program offering with multiple deliverables should be considered as a single unit of accounting, or as a multiple element arrangement with more than one unit of accounting. We currently expect that approximately 5% to 10% of 2011 sales will not be recognized ratably across the membership periods, rather it will be recognized upon delivery of services, or related deliverables, or upon completion of the membership period, both of which may be subsequent to 2011. We may be subject to additional impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. As a result of acquisitions and capital expenditures, we have goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets on our balance sheets. We test goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment on a periodic basis as required, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization, changes in estimated future cash flows, changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units, and ceasing to use portions of our existing leased office space. The potential for goodwill impairment is increased during a period of economic uncertainty. To the extent we acquire a company at a negotiated price based on anticipated future performance, subsequent market conditions may result in the acquired business performing at a lower level than was anticipated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these charges would reduce our reported results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. A slow recovery in the U.S. or global economy may result in declining performance that would require us to examine our goodwill for potential additional impairment. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. In 2010, we concluded that indicators of impairment were present and that goodwill and intangible asset amounts recorded for the Toolbox.com subsidiary were impaired. We therefore recorded an impairment charge of approximately $12.6 million. In 2008, we incurred an impairment charge of $27.4 million related to Toolbox.com. We will continue to evaluate the carrying value of our remaining goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets, and if we determine in the future that there is a potential further impairment, we may be required to record additional losses, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. We may be unable to attract and retain highly skilled management and employees. Our continued and future success depends upon our ability to hire, train, and retain highly skilled management and employees, particularly senior leaders, research analysts, and sales staff. We may continue to adjust compensation packages to remain competitive, and we expect to continue to experience intense competition for our professional personnel from our competitors, particularly as the economy continues to stabilize in the United States and Europe. If we fail to attract, train, and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled management and employees in the future, our financial results and future growth could be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We may fail to implement, maintain, upgrade, and operate our technology and information infrastructure, including our management of member data and our development and integration of new products and platforms, to meet changing legal and regulatory requirements. We serve our global membership through a technology and information management infrastructure. Among other functions, we use our technology and information management infrastructure, as well as the technology and information management infrastructure of vendors, to develop, promote, sell, service, store, and deliver our products and services to members; as well as to bill, collect, and make payments related to our products and services. Our failure to make capital expenditures in this infrastructure and to leverage the infrastructure in order to meet our internal operational and business needs, and to address information security, privacy, data management, business continuity, and other concerns with our infrastructure and the infrastructure of our vendors, both in the United States and internationally, could adversely affect our results of operations, development of new products, delivery of existing products, future performance, and reputation. In many countries and in individual states within the United States, the rules governing information security, privacy, and related concerns are evolving and vary across regions. Our failure to optimize the use of the technology and information infrastructure, or to address the evolving regulatory environment governing our use of technology and information could adversely affect our operating results, limit our future growth, and harm our reputation. Our failure to protect our technology and information infrastructure from natural disasters, power loss, malicious and negligent actions by employees or third parties, and other failures, could result in interruptions to our business and operations, which could materially affect our financial results, future growth, and reputation. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. We rely on nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements with employees, members, and third-parties, as well as copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other laws, to protect our proprietary rights in our products, services, and other proprietary information. We cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter negligent or intentional misappropriation of our intellectual property or confidential information, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our products and services would be adversely affected. We may be exposed to litigation. As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis, a user of third-party content, and an on-line content provider through Toolbox.com and other services, we face potential liability for trademark and copyright infringement and other claims based on the material we publish. Additionally, from time to time we are subject to litigation related to our normal business operations, including employment-related actions brought by former employees. Any such litigation, regardless of the merits and whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could subject us to reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in our tax provision, the adoption of new U.S. tax legislation or exposure to additional income and other tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, there could be changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 13 Table of Contents We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations that could have a negative impact on our financial results or condition. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our portfolio of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, which is intended to protect principal and liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash held at various financial institutions. Marketable securities consist primarily of Washington, D.C. tax exempt bonds. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit ratings related to the cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our portfolio is subject to interest rate risk as investments mature and are reinvested at current market interest rates. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. In an environment of generally low interests rates, as currently exists, we will likely realize lower interest income on our investments, which will reduce our overall earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 