ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves substantial risk and uncertainty. The following discussion addresses the risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from expectations. In evaluating our business, readers should pay particular attention to the risks and uncertainties described below and in other sections of this report and in our subsequent filings with the SEC. We Only Recently Acquired Gelco, So It Is Difficult To Determine What Its Impact On Our Financial Results Will Be. We completed our acquisition of Gelco in October 2007, so we have only a very limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our combined business and prospects. Our future success will depend on many factors that are not under our control, such as the following: • successful integration of Gelco products and services and personnel with our offerings and business; • growth in demand for our suite of services in light of competitive pressures; and • the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices. To address these risks we must, among other things: • successfully market our suite of services to new and existing customers; • attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; 12 Table of Contents • respond to competitive developments; • successfully introduce new services and enhancements to existing services to address changing market conditions. We May Have Difficulties Integrating Gelco With Our Business Operations, And The Costs We Incur May Be High We may experience difficulties integrating the personnel, products, technologies and operations of Gelco. Those difficulties include: • the need to manage more geographically-dispersed operations, such as Gelco’s operations in the states of Minnesota and Virginia; • difficulty incorporating acquired technologies into our operations infrastructure; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Gelco; and • the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across the larger organization. If we are unable to address any of these risks successfully, our business could be harmed. Additionally, there is risk that we may incur additional expenses associated with an impairment of a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions for acquisitions. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and to evaluate other intangible assets as events or circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. These evaluations could result in impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. Because Sales Of Two Of Our Solutions Account For 87% Of Our Total Revenues, A Material Decrease In Demand For Either Of These Solutions Could Substantially Harm Our Results Of Operations. We generated 87% of our total revenues in 2007, from our Concur Expense and Cliqbook Travel services and software. We expect such services and software to continue to contribute a similar percentage of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance and revenue growth is dependent upon continued market acceptance of our Concur Expense and Cliqbook Travel solutions and our revenues would decline significantly if, for example, our competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources than us, develop travel and expense management products that achieve greater market acceptance, or we do not keep up with technological advancements in services and software platforms, delivery models or product features. There can be no assurance that our services and software solutions will continue to maintain widespread market penetration or that we will continue to derive significant revenues from sales of such solutions in the future. Our Business Model Continues To Evolve, Which Makes Our Operations And Prospects Difficult To Evaluate, And Our Future Performance and Revenue Growth Will Depend On The Growth Of Our Subscription Services. Our business model continues to evolve and is therefore subject to many risks. We anticipate that our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend upon the growth of our subscription services. Subscription revenues represented 90% of our total revenues for 2007. We expect subscription revenues to represent a large majority of our total revenues for the foreseeable future and that our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend, in large part, upon the growth in customer demand for our services. As a result, we have invested significantly in infrastructure, operations and strategic relationships to support on-demand subscription services, which represent a significant departure from traditional software delivery strategies. The relatively short history and continued evolution of this business model makes our business operations and prospects difficult to evaluate. 13 Table of Contents Our strategic focus on our subscription business has contributed to a substantial reduction in our software license revenues in recent years. If demand for our subscription services declines, we may not be able to generate sufficient software license revenues to offset any decrease in subscription services revenues. If our subscription services business does not grow sufficiently, our cost of revenues may exceed such revenues, which would harm our operating results. Our costs of providing subscription services are relatively fixed in the short-term, so we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to offset any potential slowdown in subscription sales. In addition, any delays in deployment may prevent us from recognizing subscription revenue for indeterminate periods of time, even when we have already incurred costs relating to the deployment of our subscription services. Further, we may experience unanticipated increases in costs associated with providing our subscription services and software maintenance services to customers over the term of our customer contracts as a result of inaccurate internal cost projections or other factors, which may harm our operating results. Additionally, some of our subscription services contracts contain cancellation provisions and, if cancelled, could result in us recognizing substantially less revenue than the aggregate value of those contracts over their terms. If a customer cancels or otherwise seeks to terminate a subscription or maintenance agreement prior to the end of its term, or if we are unable to renew such an agreement at the end of its term, our operating results in future periods could be substantially harmed. Our Consulting Revenues Will Likely Continue To Decline, Which Could Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations. Our consulting and other revenues represented 10% of total revenues in 2007. We anticipate that consulting revenues will continue to decline, but will represent a significant component of our total revenues. The level of consulting revenues depends largely upon demand for our consulting services, which consist of system deployment and integration, planning, data conversion, training and documentation of procedures. Our consulting revenues will continue to decline to the extent sales or upgrades of our subscription services and/or software licenses fluctuate or decline or if third-party organizations such as systems integrators compete with us for the installation or servicing of our offerings. Our ability to increase consulting revenues will depend in large part on our ability to increase the scale of our consulting organization, including our ability to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified consulting personnel. We Face Significant Competition From Companies That Have Longer Operating Histories And Greater Resources Than We Do And Our Business Will Suffer If We Fail To Compete Effectively. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, so the competitive landscape is complex. Our principal direct competition comes from independent vendors of corporate travel and expense management software and services, as well as financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors that sell products similar to ours along with their suites of other products and services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories; greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; greater name recognition and a larger total number of customers for their products and services than we do. Some of our competitors, particularly major financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, as well as with systems integrators and other vendors and service providers. These competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, than we can. We also face indirect competition from potential customers’ internal development efforts and, at times, have to overcome their reluctance to move away from existing paper-based systems. In addition, we anticipate the entrance of new competitors in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and change in market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Since We Depend Upon Strategic Relationships With Third Parties, Our Revenues Will Decline If We Do Not Sustain And Develop These Relationships. We depend on strategic reseller and referral relationships to offer products and services to a larger customer base than we can reach through direct sales, telesales and internal marketing efforts. If we were unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships or enter into new ones, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sales and marketing of our products and services, which would increase our costs and decrease our revenues. Our success depends in part on the ultimate success of our strategic reseller and referral partners and their ability to market our products and services successfully. Our existing strategic referral partners are not obligated to refer any potential customers to us. In addition, some of these third parties have entered and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors. Further, many of our strategic partners have multiple strategic relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their businesses. Our strategic partners may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our products or services. Our strategic partners also may interfere with our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. We Depend On Our Relationships With Travel Suppliers And Any Adverse Changes In These Relationships Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition And Results Of Operations. An important component of our business success will depend on our ability to maintain and develop relationships with travel suppliers. Adverse changes in existing relationships, or our inability to enter into new arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, if at all, could reduce the amount, quality and breadth of attractively priced travel products and services that we are able to offer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Our Customers Have Concerns Over The Scalability Or Security Of Our Products, They May Not Continue To Buy Our Products And Our Revenues Will Decline. If customers determine that our subscription services offerings are not sufficiently scalable, do not provide adequate security for the dissemination of information over the Internet or corporate extranets, or are otherwise inadequate for Internet or extranet use or if, for any other reason, our customers decide not to accept our subscription services for use, our business will be harmed. As part of our subscription services, we receive credit card, travel booking, employee, purchasing, supplier and other financial and accounting data, through the Internet or extranets and there can be no assurance that this information will not be subject to computer break-ins, theft and other improper activity that could jeopardize the security of information for which we are responsible. Any such lapse in security could expose us to litigation, loss of customers, damage to our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, any person who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Any general concern regarding security in the marketplace could deter customers or prospects from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information. Our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Privacy Concerns Are Increasing, Which Could Result In Regulatory Changes That May Harm Our Business. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and many other countries in which we operate. The United States and various other countries have recommended restrictions on, or taken actions to restrict, the use of personal information by those collecting such information. Any new or existing privacy laws, if applicable to our business, could impose additional costs and could limit our use and disclosure of such information. If such privacy laws were deemed to apply to us, we may be required to change our activities and revise or eliminate our services, which could significantly harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Interruption Of Our Operations Could Prevent Us From Delivering Our Products And Services To Our Customers, Which Could Significantly Harm Our Business. Significant portions of our operations depend on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our computer equipment, offices and hosting facilities against damage from earthquake, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other events. We back up software and related data files regularly and store the back-up files at various off-site locations. However, there can be no assurance that our disaster preparedness will eliminate the risk of extended interruption of our operations. We have engaged third-party hosting facility providers to provide the hosting facilities and related infrastructure for our subscription services. These hosting facilities are located in several locations in the United States and Australia. We do not control the operation of these hosting facilities. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by one of our hosting providers to close a facility without adequate notice to us, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We also retain third-party telecommunications providers to provide Internet and direct telecommunications connections for our services. Any of these third-party providers may fail to perform their obligations adequately. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could result in interruptions in our service and/or litigation. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. It is difficult to determine whether the solutions we have developed as a result of our acquisition of Outtask in 2006 will be successful. We completed our acquisition of Outtask in 2006 and during the past year we have introduced our Concur Travel & Expense solution, which fully integrates our respective flagship products. The success of that offering remains unproven, due to the limited time it has been available. In addition, our ability to cross-sell Concur Cliqbook Travel to our customers utilizing Concur Expense, and to cross-sell Concur Expense to our customers utilizing Concur Cliqbook Travel, is unproven. Customer acceptance of products that we develop as a result of our acquisition of Outtask is also dependent upon factors outside our control, such as: • The perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; and • The significant lead times before new products, services or enhancements, including those that were added through the acquisition of Outtask, begin generating revenues. If We Acquire Additional Companies, Products, Or Technologies, We Expect To Face Risks Associated With Those Acquisitions. In the future, we may acquire or make investments in other companies, products, or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of those acquisitions or investments to the extent that we anticipate, or at all. We may have to incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If any acquisition or investment is not perceived as improving our earnings per share, our stock price may decline. In addition, we may incur non-cash amortization charges from acquisitions, which could harm our operating results. Any completed acquisitions would also require significant integration efforts, diverting our attention from our business operations and strategy. Compliance With Public Company Corporate Governance And Reporting Regulations Is Uncertain And Expensive. Many new laws, regulations and standards, notably those adopted by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, impose significant obligations on public companies 16 Table of Contents such as ours. The new laws and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices and have created uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our continuing preparation for and deployment of these reforms and enhanced new disclosures has resulted in and will likely continue to result in, higher general and administrative expenses and a significant diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating or cost-reduction activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with regulations regarding our internal control over financial reporting will likely continue to require us to commit significant financial and managerial resources. If we are not able to prepare for and implement the reforms required by new laws, regulations and standards, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Further, these laws, regulations and standards may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members to serve on our board of directors and to attract and retain qualified executive officers, which could harm our business. If our internal controls are not effective, there may be errors in our financial information that could require a restatement or delay our SEC filings, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price. At the end of 2006 we determined that we had a material weakness in our internal controls, which pertained to controls over changes in accounting principles. Our auditors have determined that we have adequately remediated this weakness. However, it is possible that we may discover other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. The growth of the international component of our business subjects us to additional risks associated with foreign operations. Our international operations, which are subject to risks associated with operating outside of the United States, are becoming an increasingly important component of our business. Revenues from customers outside the United States represented 13% of total revenues for the year ended September 30, 2007. These international operations are subject to many difficulties and incremental costs, including: • costs of customizing products for foreign countries; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • uncertain regulation of electronic commerce; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • potentially weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing such rights abroad; • difficulties staffing and managing foreign operations; and • political and economic instability. 17 Table of Contents Our international operations also face foreign currency-related risks. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in United States dollars, but we believe that an increasing portion of our revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging activities and, therefore, our international revenues and expenses are currently subject to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. In addition, our ability to expand into international markets will depend on our ability to develop and support services and products that incorporate the tax laws, accounting practices and currencies of applicable countries. Our international operations also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our services and products or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries might impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business in international markets. We intend to continue to expand our international sales and marketing activities and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We are in the early stages of developing our indirect distribution channels in markets outside the United States. We may not be able to attract and retain distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Our Quarterly Revenues And Operating Results May Fluctuate In Future Periods And We May Fail To Meet Expectations Of Investors And Public Market Analysts, Which Could Cause The Market Price Of Our Common Stock To Be Volatile Or To Decline. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. If quarterly revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results include: • developments in the integration of Gelco; • the evolving demand for our services and software; • spending decisions by our customers and prospective customers; • our ability to manage expenses; • the timing of new product releases; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of large contracts; • changes in mix of our services and software offerings; • the mix of sales channels through which our services and software are sold; • costs of developing new products and enhancements; • our ability to adequately provide services and software; and • global economic and political conditions. Our Reported Financial Results May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Accounting Principles Generally Accepted In The United States. Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”) is subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the 18 Table of Contents SEC and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, in December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS 123R”), Share-based Payments, which requires that the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions be recognized in financial statements, with the cost measured based on the estimated fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. As a result, we are now recording non-cash, stock-based compensation expense, which has a material effect on our results of operations. Further, revenue recognition rules for software and service companies are complex and require significant interpretation by us. Changes in circumstances, interpretations, or accounting principles or guidance may require us to modify our revenue recognition policies. Such modifications could impact the timing of revenue recognition and our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition And Results Of Operations” regarding our critical revenue recognition policies. Our Lengthy Sales Cycle Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. Because of the high costs involved over a significant period of time, customers for our business services and software typically commit significant resources to an evaluation of available solutions and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them about the value of our services and software. Our sales cycle, which is the time between initial contact with a potential customer and the ultimate sale, is often lengthy and unpredictable. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales. In addition, customers may delay their purchases from a given quarter to another as they elect to wait for new product enhancements or due to other factors. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, sales in a particular quarter or year could harm our business and could cause our operating results to vary significantly. Software License Revenues Are Volatile, Which Makes Our Operating Results Difficult To Forecast. Our software license revenues represented approximately 3% of total revenues for 2007. While software license revenues are diminishing as a percent of total revenues, they continue to contribute to our overall operating results. However, the timing and amounts of license revenues can be difficult to predict, which can lead to variability in operating results. For example, our licensed software is typically shipped when orders are received, so license backlog at the beginning of any quarter typically represents only a small portion of the quarter’s expected license revenues. This makes license revenues in any quarter difficult to forecast because they are determined by orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Moreover, we have historically recognized a substantial percentage of license revenues in the last month of the quarter, frequently in the last week or even the last days of the quarter and we expect this trend to continue for as long as our licensed software represents a meaningful part of our overall business. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues or any delay in the recognition of revenues could result in significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Further, we find it difficult to forecast quarterly license revenues because our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of software, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. We May Not Successfully Develop Or Introduce New Products Or Enhancements To Existing Products, Or Successfully Integrate The Gelco and Outtask Products And Services, As a Result, We May Lose Existing Customers Or Fail To Attract New Customers And Our Revenues May Suffer. Our future financial performance and revenue growth will depend, in part, upon the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services and on our ability to integrate the products and services of Gelco or Outtask into our existing and future products and services. Our business could be harmed if we fail to deliver enhancements to our current and future products and services that our customers desire, or fail to integrate Gelco’s or Outtask’s products and services into our existing and future products. From time to time, we experience delays in the planned release dates of enhancements to our products and services and we have discovered errors in new releases after their introduction. New product 19 Table of Contents versions or upgrades may not be released according to schedule, or may contain errors when released. Either situation could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our products and services, or customer claims, including, among other things, warranty claims against us, any of which could harm our business. If we do not deliver new product versions, upgrades, or other enhancements to existing products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business will be harmed. We are also continually seeking to develop new offerings. However, we remain subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, including, without limitation, unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in product introduction and acceptance or significantly increased costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop new services or products, or to introduce in a timely manner and gain acceptance of such new products or services in the marketplace. If Our Products And Services Do Not Keep Pace With Technological Change, Our Sales Could Decline And Our Business Could Be Harmed. We must continually modify and enhance our services and products to keep pace with changes in hardware and software platforms, database technology, electronic commerce technical standards and other items. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions, or modifications by vendors of operating systems, back-office applications and browsers and other Internet-related applications, could harm our business. We Rely On Third-Party Software And Services That May Be Difficult To Replace. We license or purchase software and services provided by third parties in order to offer some of our services and software offerings. Such third-party software and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss or inability to maintain our rights to use any of these software or services could result in delays in the sale of our services or software offerings until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated, which could harm our business. Our Stock Price Has Experienced High Volatility In The Past, May Continue To Be Volatile And May Decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may do so in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • the announcement of a merger or acquisition; • variations in our actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; • failure to achieve earnings expectations; • the volatility inherent in stock prices within the emerging sector within which we conduct business; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options. Stock markets, particularly the NASDAQ Stock Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology and computer software companies, particularly Internet-related companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In July 2001, we and several of our current and former officers were named as defendants in two securities class-action lawsuits based on alleged errors and 20 Table of Contents omissions concerning underwriting terms in the prospectus for our initial public offering. In April 2002, these lawsuits were consolidated with more than 300 similar pending cases filed against companies that completed initial public offerings between 1997 and 2000 and the underwriters that took them public. In July 2003, we decided to participate in a proposed settlement negotiated by representatives of a coalition of issuers named as defendants in similar actions and their insurers. Although we believe that the plaintiffs’ claims have no merit, we decided to participate in the proposed settlement to avoid the cost and distraction of continued litigation. The proposed settlement agreement would dispose of all remaining claims against us and the individual present and former officers of Concur named as defendants, without any admission of wrongdoing by us or the individual defendants. The proposed settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court. However, in December 2006, the court found that six focus cases could not be certified as class actions, but in April 2007 the court acknowledged that it might certify a more limited class. In August 2007, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in the six focus cases to test the sufficiency of their class allegations. All matters in this lawsuit, including any settlement proposal, await further determination by the court. If a new complaint is filed against us, we would continue to defend ourselves vigorously. Any liability we incur in connection with this lawsuit could materially harm our business and financial position and, even if we defend ourselves successfully, there is a risk that management’s distraction in dealing with this lawsuit could harm our results. If We Fail To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel, including personnel added through our acquisition of Gelco. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us for attracting experienced personnel. We also compete for personnel with other software vendors and consulting and professional services companies. Further, recent changes in applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. We rely on our direct sales force to sell our services and software in the marketplace. We anticipate increasing our direct sales force. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. If we were unable to hire or retain competent sales personnel our business would suffer. In addition, by relying primarily on a direct sales model, we may miss sales opportunities that might be available through other sales channels, such as domestic and international resellers and strategic referral arrangements. Any inability to hire and retain salespeople or any other qualified personnel, or any loss of the services of key personnel, would harm our business. Our Ability To Protect Our Intellectual Property Is Limited And Our Products May Be Subject To Infringement Claims By Third Parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets and other proprietary information and our ability to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure and use. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information. Although we have filed six patent applications in various countries, we do not own any issued patents. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We provide our licensed customers with access to object code versions of our software and to other proprietary information underlying our software. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other data transmitted. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, or that our competitors will not 21 Table of Contents independently develop similar technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products or other intellectual property rights. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, over the past several years, we have made numerous changes in our product names. Although we own registered trademarks in the United States and have filed trademark applications in the United States and in certain other countries, we do not have assurance that our strategy with respect to our trademark portfolio will be adequate to secure or protect all necessary intellectual property. Anti-Takeover Effects Of Our Rights Agreement, Charter Documents And Delaware Law Could Discourage Or Prevent A Change In Control Of Concur. We have a shareholder rights agreement in place, under which our stockholders have special rights, in the form of additional voting and beneficial ownership, in the event that a person or group not approved by the board of directors were to acquire, or to announce the intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding shares. This plan is designed to have the effect of discouraging, delaying or rendering more difficult an acquisition of us that has not been approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, there are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions in the Delaware General Corporation Law, that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. For example: • our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with special voting or economic rights; • our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights and, therefore, each of our directors can only be elected by holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; • our stockholders may not take action by written consent; • our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year; and • we require advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents 