1A. Risk Factors" for a detailed discussion of some of the factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. We qualify all our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. There may also be other factors that may materially affect our forward-looking statements and our future results. As a result of the foregoing, readers should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation and do not intend to update any forward-looking statement. 1 ITEM I. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, acquisition, development and commercialization of novel drug candidates for central nervous system, or CNS, disorders. We currently have three product candidates in various stages of clinical development by us, namely, bicifadine, DOV 21,947 and DOV 102,677. We have entered into collaborations for two additional DOV product candidates, indiplon and DOV 216,303, and are seeking a partner for a third product candidate, DOV diltiazem. Bicifadine is our lead product candidate for the treatment of pain. In April 2005 and May 2005, our sublicensee, Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., or Neurocrine, submitted two New Drug Applications, or NDAs, to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, with respect to indiplon, our product candidate for the treatment of insomnia. We intend to submit our first NDA for bicifadine to the FDA, in the first half of 2007. Our discovery program remains focused on GABAA receptor modulators and reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of CNS disorders. Our preclinical research includes the identification of second generation compounds for pain, anxiety, depression and other important CNS disorders. Bicifadine is the subject of an extensive clinical development program with three ongoing Phase III trials in patients with chronic low back pain, or CLBP. In addition, two Phase II exploratory trials were recently initiated in February 2006 for bicifadine in the treatment of osteoarthritis and painful diabetic neuropathy. Bicifadine already has demonstrated efficacy in Phase II and Phase III clinical trials involving moderate to severe pain following dental surgery and bunionectomy. DOV 21,947, our lead product candidate for depression, is a triple reuptake inhibitor, or TRI, and is expected to enter a 300-patient Phase II clinical trial in the third quarter of 2006. DOV 21,947 is related to DOV 216,303, another of our TRIs. We recently announced statistically significant efficacy results from a Phase II clinical trial with DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, and currently are evaluating the drug in a number of preclinical models to determine different indications for its further development. DOV 102,677 is another of our TRIs, for which the next study will be a Phase Ib clinical trial in normal volunteers and is scheduled for 2007. Our current capabilities enable us to take compounds from drug discovery through all stages of clinical development to NDA filing. Our core scientific expertise is in cellular and molecular pharmacology underlying neurotransmission. We have substantial clinical development expertise in our departments of clinical research, data management, biostatistics, medical writing, pharmaceutical development and regulatory affairs. Our senior management team has substantial experience in CNS drug discovery and development. Members of our management have participated in the discovery, development and commercialization of new drugs that have been successfully brought to market. We continue to work to build these capabilities and the next phase of our growth will focus on the expansion of our strategic marketing and commercialization programs and an increase in our internal laboratory capabilities. In February 2006, we entered into a ten-year operating lease for an approximately 133,000 square foot facility in Somerset, New Jersey, that will serve as our new global corporate and development headquarters. The new headquarters will contain laboratory and pilot-scale manufacturing space and we expect to take occupancy in May 2006. To enhance our drug development and commercialization efforts we have out-licensed rights to certain of our product candidates. We have sublicensed indiplon to Neurocrine, which entered into a development and commercialization agreement for indiplon with Pfizer, Inc., or Pfizer, in December 2002. We sublicensed DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 to Merck & Co., Inc. in a 2004 development and commercialization agreement which was amended in August 2005. The amendment transfers to us from Merck certain development contemplated by the license agreement. It also permits expansion of the parties’ relationship to include an additional TRI from the DOV preclinical pipeline for inclusion in the original license agreement with no additional upfront payment. If the DOV studies for DOV 21,947 are successful, we may be reimbursed by Merck for pre-agreed expenses and may receive a success premium. Subsequently, we could receive payment for achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones pursuant to the existing agreement. Both parties retain certain termination rights. 2 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our goal is to become a leading biopharmaceutical company focused primarily on products for the treatment of CNS disorders. The key elements of our strategy are to: Pursue development and commercialization of our lead product candidates. We have five product candidates undergoing DOV-driven or collaborative clinical development. These product candidates address four separate and substantial pharmaceutical markets: insomnia, pain, depression and alcohol abuse. We have designed the clinical programs for the product candidates we are developing in an effort to provide clear and defined paths to attain regulatory approval. We intend to continue to devote substantial resources to completing clinical testing and commercializing these product candidates. Expand our product candidate portfolio with novel drug candidates that address unmet needs in large, established markets. We seek to identify and develop, either internally or through collaborative agreements, novel drug candidates that address unmet needs in large, established markets. For example, our product candidates for the treatment of pain and insomnia, bicifadine and indiplon, respectively, have demonstrated positive results equivalent to, or better than, currently marketed products. We intend to continue expanding our existing product candidate portfolio by discovering and developing novel drug compounds both internally and through focused outsourced research and development. We also intend to expand our portfolio by identifying, in-licensing and developing additional compounds that are potentially superior to currently marketed products and by developing additional applications and formulations for our existing discovery and licensed compounds. Reduce clinical development and commercialization risk by building a diversified product portfolio. We have built and intend to continue to build a portfolio of diverse product candidates to address CNS disorders to reduce the risks associated with the clinical development of any one drug. We have focused our in-licensing and development resources on compounds in all stages of research and clinical development for which there exists a significant amount of informative clinical data. We believe this reduces the risk that these compounds will have safety concerns and enhances our chances of demonstrating efficacy in clinical trials. We focus on developing multiple compounds with diverse mechanisms of action to limit the risk of difficulties associated with a particular mechanism of action. Finally, a single mechanism of action may have multiple therapeutic uses. We intend to investigate the efficacy of our compounds for these diverse uses in order to enhance the commercial potential of our product candidates. We believe that our portfolio approach reduces undue dependence on any single compound or therapeutic application to achieve commercial success and creates multiple potential sources of revenue. Selectively establish collaborations with global pharmaceutical companies to assist in the development of our products, mitigate financial risk and retain significant commercial upside. We leverage the resources and the development, regulatory and commercialization expertise of our corporate collaborators to advance the development of our potential products. We intend to continue to seek to establish alliances that will enhance our product development and commercialization efforts, including alliances that allow us to retain significant development and commercialization rights for our product candidates. We currently have collaborations with: · Neurocrine/Pfizer, for indiplon for the treatment of insomnia; and · Merck, for DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, anxiety and addiction and DOV 21,947 for all indications. In August 2005, we amended our 2004 license agreement with Merck for DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303. As part of the amendment, we instead of Merck will undertake certain clinical development of DOV 21,947 while retaining the ability to achieve the original milestone payments and royalties on product sales, if any, in the event our development activities achieve results to be agreed upon with Merck. In addition, we also retained co-promotion rights for DOV 21,947 in the U.S. 3 OUR PRODUCT PIPELINE The following table summarizes our product candidates currently in clinical and preclinical development: Product Indication(s) Status Marketing Rights Indiplon Insomnia PDUFA Dates: May 15, 2006 and June 27, 20061 Pfizer/Neurocrine Bicifadine Pain Phase III DOV DOV 21,947 Depression Phase Ib/Phase II planned Merck/DOV DOV 102,677 Alcohol Abuse / Alcoholism Phase Ib Planned DOV DOV 216,303 Indications other than Depression, Anxiety and Addiction Preclinical/Phase II2 DOV DOV Diltiazem Angina and Hypertension Phase I/Phase III planned for 20073 DOV DOV 216,303 Depression, Anxiety and Addiction 4 Merck/DOV ___________ 1. The FDA has committed to an action by May 15, 2006 for both NDAs, according to Neurocrine’s public disclosures as of February 7, 2006. 2. Although we have completed a Phase II with DOV 216,303 in depressed patients, we are currently evaluating it in preclinical models to determine the next retained indication, if any, other than indications licensed by Merck, that we will pursue in clinical development. Merck has licensed the rights to depression, anxiety and addiction. 3. In July 2004, we reached agreement with the FDA on the scope and design of the clinical trials required for submission of an NDA for DOV diltiazem; we are seeking a partner for final development and commercialization. 4. Our sublicensee for DOV 216,303, Merck, has elected not to authorize disclosure of its development plans. For an explanation of the terms Preclinical, Phase I, Phase II and Phase III, please refer to the text in subheading “Government Regulation” in this “Business” section. OUR PRODUCTS UNDER DEVELOPMENT Clinical Development Programs Indiplon: Our product candidate for insomnia Insomnia is a neurological disorder with approximately 85 million adults in the U.S. reporting trouble sleeping a few nights or more per week, according to a 2005 report from Mattson Jack (an epidemiological database used to determine the prevalence of a disease or disorder). Mattson Jack also reports that approximately 22 million adults in the U.S. experience chronic insomnia, having trouble sleeping every night or almost every night. In addition, according to the National Sleep Foundation (2003), frequent sleep problems in individuals that are 55 to 84 years old, if ignored, can complicate the treatment of other medical conditions, including arthritis, diabetes, heart and lung disease and depression. According to a 2005 report from IMS Health, the U.S. insomnia pharmaceutical market was $2.2 billion in 2004 and was expected to exceed $2.7 billion in 2005. The most frequently prescribed drugs currently marketed to treat insomnia target the neurotransmitter gamma aminobutryic acid, or GABA. Neurotransmitters are chemicals in the CNS that either excite or inhibit neuronal function. GABA is the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the CNS. Benzodiazepines, or BDZs, target the GABAA receptors. 4 During the 1980s, BDZs were commonly used as sedatives to treat insomnia. This class of drugs produces several undesirable side effects, including negative interactions with other CNS depressants, such as alcohol, the development of tolerance upon repeat dosing and rebound insomnia, or the worsening of insomnia following discontinuation of dosing. Additional side effects, due to the long half-life, or the duration of action, of a compound associated with this class of drugs, include next-day residual sedation effects and impairment of coordination and memory. Memory impairment, which can include amnesia for events occurring prior to and after drug administration, is of particular concern in the elderly, who comprise approximately 18 percent of the total insomnia population, according to Mattson Jack (2005). During the late 1980s, the class of drugs known as non-BDZs was developed to target a specific site on the GABAA receptor. The non-BDZs have a reduced incidence of side effects that are believed to be attributable to binding more selectively on a GABAA receptor subtype than the BDZs. The most commonly prescribed of the non-BDZs in the U.S. are Ambien®, Sonata® and Lunesta®. Ambien is the current market leader, with approximately $1.8 billion in worldwide sales in 2005, according to Sanofi-Aventis. Indiplon, our insomnia product candidate, is a non-BDZ shown to be more potent and fast-acting than currently marketed non-BDZs, including Ambien. In 1998, we licensed indiplon from Wyeth Holdings Corporation, or Wyeth, and sublicensed it to Neurocrine. In December 2002, Neurocrine entered into a development and commercialization agreement with Pfizer for indiplon. We are entitled to a 3.5 percent royalty on worldwide net sales of indiplon, if any. In April 2005 and May 2005 Neurocrine submitted two indiplon NDAs, for an immediate release, or IR, capsule formulation and a modified release, or MR, tablet formulation for the treatment of insomnia. Neurocrine is developing indiplon in these two formulations, a short acting capsule and a longer acting tablet to address the different needs of the insomnia patient population. These formulations capitalize on key features of indiplon: its ability to induce sleep quickly - approximately 15 minutes after taking the pill - and its rapid elimination from the body, which essentially eliminates the next-day residual sedation effects commonly produced by other drugs of this class. In January 2006, the FDA requested and received submission of results from Neurocrine’s driving study, completed in late 2005. Based on feedback from the FDA, Neurocrine has stated that it anticipates labeling that includes data from this study, which showed no impairment in next-day driving performance. The FDA has stated its intent to issue a combined package insert in lieu of individual package inserts for the capsule and tablet NDAs. To complete review of the driving study and the combined package insert, the FDA has advised Neurocrine that the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, dates for the capsule and the tablet NDAs have been moved to May 15, 2006 and June 27, 2006, respectively. However the FDA has committed to an action by May 15, 2006 for both NDAs. Neurocrine’s indiplon program has now successfully completed clinical trials demonstrating that indiplon capsules and tablets help patients consistently fall asleep faster, increase the amount of time they sleep during the night, decrease number of nighttime awakenings and improve overall sleep quality over the course of short or long-term treatment without evidence of tolerance when administered nightly for up to three months or withdrawal upon discontinuation of nightly dosing - complications often seen with extended use of older-generation sleep medications. Neurocrine also has noted that, in its Phase II and Phase III clinical studies, indiplon demonstrated efficacy with no significant next-day residual sedation at clinically relevant doses and showed, in a driving study, no impairment in next-day driving performance. Neurocrine’s NDAs for indiplon contain data from a total of 74 clinical trials that included approximately 8,000 adult and elderly subjects, more than 350,000 patient exposures and more than 80 preclinical studies. The data reported from these trials consistently have met both primary and secondary endpoints demonstrating the efficacy and safety of indiplon. The preceding descriptions of Neurocrine’s clinical development and clinical trial results of indiplon are based on Neurocrine’s public disclosures through February 7, 2006. 5 Bicifadine: Our Novel Analgesic Drugs for the treatment of pain, or analgesics, have historically been placed into the following general categories: · narcotics or opioids, e.g., morphine, codeine, Demerol® and Percodan®; and · non-narcotic prostaglandin inhibitors, e.g., aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen and COX-2 inhibitors. While drugs in both these categories are regularly used in the treatment of pain, their use has been limited because of various side effect profiles. In addition, administering these drugs for extended time periods has been problematic. Although prostaglandin inhibitors have been used for the treatment of pain, particularly pain associated with inflammation, their efficacy is limited to milder types of pain and they often display undesirable side effects relating to the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Narcotics are also used to treat pain, but tolerance develops rapidly and higher doses often lead to physical dependence and additional side effects, including respiratory depression. Ultram®, marketed by Ortho-McNeil, Inc., was originally thought to be a non-narcotic but its metabolites have been reported to act at certain opiate receptors and have the potential to cause morphine-like psychic and physical dependence. Despite these drawbacks, U.S. sales in 2005 of narcotic and non-narcotic analgesics reached nearly $7.6 billion according to IMS. Furthermore, in September 2004, Merck withdrew Vioxx®, a COX-2 inhibitor, from the market, citing increased risk of stroke and heart attack in extended use. In April 2005, Pfizer withdrew Bextra®, another COX-2 inhibitor, citing increased risk of rare but serious skin reactions. The withdrawal of these drugs has had a significant impact on the treatment of pain and the pain market and, we believe, opened up greater opportunities for bicifadine. The FDA has granted approval for two other classes of compounds for the management of specific types of chronic pain. In the first class, Neurontin®, marketed by Pfizer, is an anticonvulsant whose actions on ion channels in neuronal tissue are likely responsible for its therapeutic effects in a certain type of neuropathic pain (postherpetic neuralgia). Sharing a similar structure with Neurontin is Lyrica®, also marketed by Pfizer, which was approved in December 2004 for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia. In the second class, Cymbalta®, marketed by Eli Lilly and Co., was granted approval in September 2004 for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Cymbalta’s mechanism of action is believed to result from the inhibition of the uptake of serotonin and norepinephrine (SNRI) in nerve cells, properties also possessed by bicifadine. Bicifadine, in a sustained release, or SR, formulation, is our product candidate for the treatment of pain. Bicifadine is a chemically distinct molecule with a unique profile of pharmacological activity. Its primary pharmacological action is to enhance and prolong the actions of norepinephrine and serotonin by inhibiting the transport proteins that terminate the physiological actions of the two biogenic amines. While we believe that bicifadine also possesses additional neurochemical properties that contribute to its analgesic effects, the exact nature of these other properties is under investigation. Preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that either or a combination of these individual actions may account for the analgesic properties of bicifadine. Bicifadine is not a narcotic and, in preclinical studies, has been shown not to act at any opiate receptor. In preclinical studies to date, bicifadine has not demonstrated abuse, addiction or dependence potential, although, in a Phase I clinical trial, the immediate release, or IR, formulation did cause mild and transient euphoric mood in some subjects. Four Phase I clinical trials and 14 Phase II clinical trials involving more than 1,000 patients were conducted by Wyeth or DOV with an IR formulation of bicifadine. In five exploratory double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trials of the IR formulation conducted by Wyeth, bicifadine demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in pain versus placebo, in some cases with an outcome suggesting it might be comparable to or better than positive controls such as codeine. In addition to these trials with the IR formulation, we have conducted eight Phase I clinical trials using the SR formulation, a formulation that permits less frequent daily dosing, improves tolerability and for which patents have been filed. We are evaluating the SR formulation in our ongoing clinical development programs and this formulation is intended for commercial use. 6 Chronic Pain Drug Development Program In March 2004 and February 2006, we reached agreement with the FDA on a plan for the balance of the Phase III bicifadine preclinical and clinical program necessary to submit an NDA for chronic pain. The agreed upon program must include positive results from two placebo-controlled dose-response studies of three months’ treatment duration in patients with CLBP, such as those that are currently ongoing. We also will need to obtain long-term safety observations from at least 100 CLBP patients treated with bicifadine for one year and 300 CLBP patients treated with bicifadine for six months at the maximal recommended dose, which is anticipated to be 400 mg b.i.d. The FDA did not express any particular concerns regarding the safety profile of bicifadine based on the results of preclinical and clinical testing, including observations from previously conducted clinical trials in which more than 1,500 subjects received bicifadine SR. A significant outcome of our February 2006 meeting was the FDA’s stated receptivity to review an NDA for a broad label chronic pain indication for bicifadine using the current CLBP clinical trials package provided we would commit to study bicifadine in two additional models of chronic pain in Phase IV post-approval studies, such as osteoarthritis or neuropathic pain. We intend to make this commitment. In the event that we are not ultimately able to provide positive evidence of efficacy in two Phase IV studies, the bicifadine indication in the product labeling may be revised to that of chronic low back pain. Another outcome of the February 2006 FDA meeting was a discussion of the Phase I clinical trial package necessary for the submission of the first NDA for bicifadine in chronic pain. The Phase I program will include a QTc study in normal volunteers. A QTc study measures the QT portion of an electrocardiogram and assesses a drug's potential to produce changes in cardiac rhythm. To date, there have been no cardiac - or other - meaningful safety concerns in our preclinical studies or in clinical studies involving more than 2,500 subjects treated with bicifadine. We also discussed with the FDA the status of its informal Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, for study 020 and the potential for dose titration in study 022, our long-term safety and efficacy trial of bicifadine in CLBP patients, as described below. Because we subsequently amended the protocol for study 020 following study initiation and designated a single primary endpoint in that trial, according to FDA guidelines the informal SPA originally discussed with the FDA is no longer in effect. However, we do not feel that this will be an impediment to securing FDA regulatory approval for bicifadine As part of our bicifadine development program, we also are conducting our animal carcinogenicity study. The “In life” data has been collected and this study has yielded no apparent signals to date. The final analysis is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2006. We intend to submit our first NDA submission for bicifadine in the first half of 2007. This expectation is based upon, among other things, projected rate of patient enrollment, positive clinical trial outcomes and continued absence of safety concerns. Phase III Chronic Pain Trials of Bicifadine In Progress In September 2004, we initiated a pivotal, Phase III, U.S. clinical trial of bicifadine in approximately 600 patients with moderate to severe CLBP (study 020). The clinical trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient, multi-center study assessing the efficacy and tolerability of three dose levels of bicifadine - 200 mg, 300 mg and 400 mg b.i.d. - over a three-month period. Patients who complete the study are eligible for up to one year of additional treatment in a bicifadine open-label safety and efficacy study (study 022). The primary efficacy endpoint is the change in pain severity rating as measured by the 100 mm Visual Analog Scale, or VAS, score between baseline and the end of dosing. The acceptability of this primary endpoint was affirmed by the FDA in February 2006. In December 2005, we announced a positive futility analysis for study 020, meaning an independent external statistical examination of interim trial data supports continuing the trial through to completion. This analysis of data on the improvement in pain scores from baseline to end of treatment - the primary endpoint of the clinical trial - indicates that bicifadine has at least a 40 percent chance of being statistically superior to the placebo treatment. We completed enrollment in this trial in January 2006 and expect to announce results in the second quarter of 2006. 7 We currently are enrolling subjects into a second Phase III clinical trial of bicifadine in patients with moderate to severe CLBP (study 021). The trial is expected to enroll approximately 475 patients and is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient, multi-center study assessing the efficacy and tolerability of two dose levels of bicifadine - 200 mg b.i.d. and 400 mg b.i.d. - over a three-month period. The primary efficacy endpoint is the change in pain severity rating as measured by the 100 mm VAS score between baseline and the end of dosing. We expect to report the results of the 021 study in the fourth quarter of 2006. In both studies 020 and 021, secondary endpoints include changes in measures of functional disability, patients’ global impression of change, patient and physician global evaluation of bicifadine, incidence of discontinuation due to lack of efficacy, use of rescue medication and other analgesia-related rating scales. Safety is being measured by adverse event occurrences, vital signs, ECGs, clinical lab tests and other measures. We also are enrolling subjects into an open-label Phase III, multi-center clinical trial to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of bicifadine in patients with CLBP (study 022). This clinical trial will enroll approximately 1,550 total patients with CLBP, 1,050 of whom will be entered directly into this study and randomized to receive either 400 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine or any appropriate pharmacological analgesic treatment or treatments, or “standard of care” or SOC, selected by the investigator. If the 400 mg b.i.d. dose (800 mg total daily dose) is not adequately tolerated, patients can be given a lower dose (600 mg, 400 mg or 200 mg total daily dose) and remain in the clinical trial. To date, about 30 percent of patients have been down-titrated from 400 mg b.i.d. to one of these alternate dosing regimens. Most of these patients have down-titrated to the 600 mg or 400 mg total daily dose. This clinical trial also will enroll approximately 500 U.S. patients who will have completed twelve weeks of treatment in either study 020 or study 021. Such “rollover” patients receive 400 mg b.i.d.of bicifadine. The primary objective of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety of bicifadine for up to one year in patients with CLBP with the goal of accumulating an overall safety package of data in 100 patients with one year of dosing and 300 patients with at least six months of dosing at 400 mg b.i.d., the top anticipated dose. The ongoing results from study 022 suggest that bicifadine is at least as effective as SOC in treating CLBP and is safe and well-tolerated. Initial data suggest that patients receiving bicifadine “de novo” experience a decrease in pain, as measured by VAS score, from a rating of approximately 70 mm to 40 mm over the first four weeks. Further, patients who have “rolled over” from study 020 or 021 are entering the trial with an average VAS score of about 40 mm and continue to decrease their pain scores over the following weeks and months. The positive data trends are continuing, with dosing now spanning twelve months and total patients enrolled in study 022 exceeding 700. This study is being conducted in approximately 117 centers and we expect to complete in December 2006 the safety package needed to submit our first NDA for bicifadine in the first half of 2007. In the first quarter of 2006, we plan to initiate a substudy within the long-term safety trial. In this substudy, approximately 100 CLBP patients who are randomized to 400 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine will receive at the outset one of two titration regimens: 200 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine during week one and 300 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine during week two followed by 400 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine for the remainder of the study; or the same titration steps given for two weeks for each dose level followed by 400 mg b.i.d. for the remainder of the trial. This substudy will thus provide information whether the tolerability of a titration regimen to 400 mg b.i.d. of bicifadine is superior to that seen upon starting treatment on day one with the top anticipated dose of 400 mg b.i.d. Phase II Chronic Pain Trials In Progress In February 2006, we initiated two exploratory Phase II clinical trials of bicifadine: one in patients with osteoarthritis and one in patients with painful diabetic neuropathy. The osteoarthritis trial is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, four-way crossover trial designed to assess the efficacy, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of bicifadine alone and in combination with ibuprofen. The clinical trial expects to enroll 60 patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. Each patient receives one week of dosing for each of the following four treatment regimens: bicifadine, ibuprofen, bicifadine plus ibuprofen and placebo. There is a one week washout period between each of the dosing arms. Efficacy is determined using change from baseline for pain via VAS scores, the WOMAC arthritis index, patients’ global improvement assessments and other recognized measures. Preclinical studies of bicifadine show the drug has demonstrated efficacy in models of inflammatory pain. 8 The painful diabetic neuropathy trial is a randomized, multiple-dose, open-label, two-phase overlap trial designed to assess the efficacy and safety of bicifadine and potential interactions of bicifadine and oxycodone used concurrently. The clinical trial will randomize 50 patients with painful diabetic neuropathy into two parallel four-week treatment groups. In this trial, patients will receive either bicifadine or oxycodone alone for two weeks and then both drugs dosed concurrently for the remaining two weeks. Analgesic efficacy is determined at the end of each two-week period using patient VAS scores for pain, the trial’s primary endpoint. Secondary efficacy endpoints include patient ratings of global improvement and use of rescue medication. Preclinical studies of bicifadine show the drug has substantial analgesic effects in models of neuropathic pain in both diabetic animals and in animals with sensory neuron damage near the spinal cord. DOV expects to complete dosing for both Phase II trials in the third quarter of 2006. Acute Pain Drug Development Program In March 2004 and March 2006, we received guidance from the FDA on a plan for the balance of the Phase III bicifadine program necessary to submit an NDA for acute pain. The March 2006 meeting revealed that the FDA is receptive to reviewing an NDA for a broad label acute pain indication for bicifadine based on the successful outcomes from two Phase III clinical trials in repeat-dose acute pain models. This is fewer trials than expected, and there was agreement that one of these trials may be in a non-surgical pain model. This FDA guidance marks a significant improvement for the bicifadine acute pain program in terms of the regulatory path, and we will have further communication with the FDA as we determine the optimal acute pain models to pursue as part of an acute pain NDA package. We announced in March 2006 that we discontinued the conduct of an ongoing vaginal hysterectomy Phase III trial as we believe that this more severe post-surgical pain model is unlikely to support the repeat dosing analysis of bicifadine now required for registration. We also then determined that although the recently completed positive efficacy bunionectomy Phase III trial provides compelling evidence that bicifadine is an effective analgesic in a severe post-surgical pain model, the high rate of “rescue” medication use confounds the repeat dosing analysis required by the FDA. Completed Acute Pain Trials of Bicifadine In August 2002, we completed a Phase II clinical trial in the U.S. involving 750 patients in the treatment of moderate to severe post-surgical dental pain. This Phase II trial was a single-dose, double-blind, placebo-controlled, study that evaluated three controlled release doses of bicifadine and one dose of codeine compared to placebo. Bicifadine produced a highly statistically significant, dose-related reduction in pain compared to placebo at each of the two higher doses. The efficacy of bicifadine was at least equivalent to codeine at all three doses. The trial demonstrated bicifadine to be safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events. Both codeine and the two higher doses of bicifadine produced significantly more adverse events than placebo, with the bicifadine 400 mg and 600 mg doses producing 22 percent and 37 percent, respectively, versus 11 percent for placebo. The most frequently reported adverse events were nausea and vomiting. In September 2003, we completed a 540-patient, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase III clinical trial to compare three doses of bicifadine and one dose of tramadol to placebo in a moderate to severe post-surgical dental pain model. Bicifadine, in a dose-dependent fashion, produced a highly statistically significant reduction in pain compared to placebo, as did the single-dose level of tramadol. Statistically significant increases in analgesia were measured as early as one hour after administration and analgesia was sustained for the balance of the six-hour measurement period. The maximal efficacy of bicifadine was statistically indistinguishable from tramadol. Both bicifadine and tramadol were safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events. In September 2005, we completed a Phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, outpatient, multi-center clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of three dose levels of bicifadine in patients with moderate to severe acute pain following bunionectomy surgery for a five-day period incorporating tramadol as an active control. The bunionectomy Phase III trial ultimately enrolled 325 patients at five sites in the U.S. The design and analysis of the study compared 200 mg and 400 mg t.i.d. of bicifadine to placebo with 100 mg t.i.d. of tramadol as an active control. Statistically significant increases in analgesia were measured as early as 30 minutes after administration and these effects were sustained for the balance of the eight-hour measurement period. The maximal efficacy of bicifadine was statistically indistinguishable from tramadol. While both bicifadine and tramadol were safe and relatively well-tolerated without producing any serious adverse events, the high level of “rescue” analgesic medication used in both the placebo and active drug groups confounded an assessment of the analgesic actions of bicifadine or tramadol under repeat dosing conditions, which are an FDA requirement. 9 DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303: Our Triple Reuptake Inhibitors, or TRIs, for Depression Depression is a disorder in which the affected person experiences a mental state of sadness, despair, discouragement and hopelessness. Other symptoms may include apathy, withdrawal from social contact, an inability to experience pleasure, changes in appetite and sleep patterns, low energy levels, difficulty concentrating and thoughts of suicide. Neurotransmitters regulate numerous functions in the CNS, and imbalances in them have been linked to a number of psychiatric disorders, including depression. The actions of these neurotransmitters are terminated by specific transport proteins that remove them from synapses in the brain. Antidepressants are thought to produce their therapeutic effects by inhibiting the uptake activity of one or more of these transport proteins, effectively increasing the concentration and duration of action of these neurotransmitters at their receptors. The emergence of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs, starting with Prozac® in January 1988, followed by Zoloft® in February 1992 and Paxil® in January 1993, has had a dramatic impact on the antidepressant market. According to IMS figures, sales of antidepressants in the U.S. increased from approximately $424 million in 1987, the year prior to the introduction of Prozac, to approximately $13.7 billion in 2004. Despite this widespread commercial success, SSRIs suffer from the following limitations: · 30-40 percent of patients do not experience an adequate therapeutic response to a given drug; · three or more weeks of therapy are often required before meaningful improvement is observed; and · side effects such as nervousness, agitation, insomnia and sexual dysfunction. Dual uptake inhibitors, referred to as SNRIs, like Effexor®, launched in 1994, and Cymbalta, launched in August 2004, block the uptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine and are appreciably more potent on the serotonin system. While these drugs may be more effective than SSRIs in some patients, SNRIs still take three or more weeks of therapy before a meaningful improvement is observed. In addition, SNRIs have their own unique set of side effects, including nausea, headache, sleepiness, dry mouth, sexual dysfunction and dizziness. Both preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that a drug inhibiting uptake of all three, serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, may produce a faster onset of action or provide greater efficacy than traditional antidepressants. We believe that such a ‘broad spectrum’ antidepressant would represent a breakthrough in the treatment of depression. DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 are TRIs affecting the neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine. In preclinical studies, DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 were shown to inhibit the uptake of all three neurotransmitters. In animal models highly predictive of antidepressant action, DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 were more potent than Tofranil®, an SNRI, and the SSRIs Prozac and Celexa. Because of their ability to inhibit the uptake of all three neurotransmitters implicated in depression, we believe DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 may be more effective and have a more rapid onset than other antidepressants. We have completed several Phase I studies of DOV 21,947 and intend to initiate a Phase II clinical trial in the third quarter of 2006. DOV 21,947 is related to DOV 216,303. In December 2005 we dosed the initial set of subjects in a second Phase Ib clinical trial of DOV 21,947. At the highest dose levels explored - well separated from what is believed to be the therapeutic range - rashes were noted in some subjects. In the third quarter of 2006, we expect to initiate a Phase II double-blind clinical trial of DOV 21,947 vs. placebo in depressed outpatients. Before sublicensing DOV 216,303 to Merck, we completed a Phase II efficacy trial in patients with major depressive disorder. The clinical trial was a randomized, multi-center, double-blind, safety, efficacy and tolerability study with 67 patients and compared 50 mg b.i.d. of DOV 216,303 to 20 mg b.i.d. of citalopram, an SSRI. Patients who completed two weeks of treatment in both the DOV 216,303 and citalopram groups demonstrated reductions from baseline (p<0.0001) in the total HAM-D scores. This study also showed that DOV 216,303 was generally well-tolerated, with no serious adverse events occurring. Merck has licensed the rights to DOV 216,303 for depression, anxiety and addiction. We are currently evaluating DOV 216,303 in preclinical models to determine additional indications, outside of the Merck indications, to pursue in clinical development. 10 DOV 102,677: Our TRI for Alcohol Abuse & Alcoholism Alcoholism, also known as alcohol dependence, is a disease with symptoms including: · craving: a strong need or compulsion to drink; · loss of control: the inability to limit one’s drinking on any given occasion; · physical dependence: withdrawal symptoms, such as nausea, sweating, shakiness and anxiety, occur when alcohol use is stopped after a period of heavy drinking; and · tolerance: the need to drink greater amounts of alcohol in order to ‘get high.’ The most recent alcohol use and abuse study conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“The 2001 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse”), estimates that approximately 14 million Americans - 7.4 percent of the population - meet the diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse or alcoholism. Yet, this level of incidence is met by a general lack of effective treatments for alcohol abuse. DOV 102,677 is a TRI with preferential action on the dopamine transporter protein and is related to DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303. In a Phase Ia clinical trial, DOV 102,677 was shown to be safe and well-tolerated at doses ≤ 150 mg. At higher doses, abnormal color vision, which was both transient and reversible, was observed in the majority of subjects. Results of this Phase Ia trial and results from an animal model of alcohol abuse have led us to identify DOV 102,677 as a development candidate to treat alcohol abuse and alcoholism rather than depression. We intend to initiate a Phase Ib repeat-dose clinical trial in normal volunteers for DOV 102,677 in the alcohol abuse indication in 2007. Preclinical Development Programs Our discovery program remains focused on GABAA receptor modulators and reuptake inhibitors for the treatment of CNS disorders. Our co-founders, Dr. Bernard Beer and Dr. Arnold Lippa, conducted pioneering work on GABAA receptors. This work classified GABAA receptors into biochemically, pharmacologically and functionally distinct receptor subtypes. They demonstrated that different receptor subtypes influence different behaviors such as anxiety, sedation and amnesia. Furthermore, through their research delineating the actions of BDZs on GABAA receptors, they were the first to discover non-BDZ compounds that act on specific subtypes of GABAA receptors. BDZs are believed to produce their undesirable effects at therapeutic doses because they affect all GABAA receptor subtypes. We believe that compounds that selectively act on specific GABAA receptor subtypes produce the desired therapeutic effects in the absence of the undesirable effects associated with BDZs. For example, compounds acting at one GABAA receptor subtype may reduce anxiety without sedation, while compounds acting at another GABAA receptor subtype may produce sedation without memory impairment, or other effects associated with acting at other subtypes. Our internal discovery effort with GABAA receptor modulators has yielded a series of compounds we are currently evaluating. These new chemical entities, currently in the lead optimization phase, are significantly more potent than ocinaplon, our previous anti-anxiety product candidate, and we have prioritized our preclinical pipeline and 2006 activities accordingly. These compounds appear to function as partial positive allosteric modulators at specific GABAA receptor subtypes that may be involved in the treatment of various anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder, or GAD, and panic. In August 2005, we suspended further dosing in the ongoing Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon following the occurrence of enzyme elevations in liver function tests, or LFTs, for one subject. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in the Phase III trial. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was eight percent in the ocinaplon-treated subjects and zero percent in the placebo-controlled subjects. Based upon the data, in October 2005 we discontinued the development of ocinaplon for GAD. We are evaluating ocinaplon in preclinical models to determine possible alternative indications for which the risk of liver damage would be reduced. We plan to select a preclinical candidate for clinical development in GAD in the third quarter of 2006. Our preclinical research and discovery activities and program also includes our work to identify second generation bicifadine compounds. 11 Cardiovascular Disorders Chronic stable angina, or angina pectoris, refers to recurring severe constricting pain in the chest due to inadequate blood supply to the heart caused by heart disease. Angina attacks are more likely to occur during the morning and afternoon hours. Likewise, hypertension is greater in the morning hours. According to the 2002 practice guidelines update for the management of patients with chronic stable angina, published by the American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association/American College of Physicians-American Society of Internal Medicine, the number of patients in the U.S. with stable angina was estimated at 16.5 million. According to Decision Resources, high blood pressure or hypertension was estimated to affect more than 50 million people in the U.S. Diltiazem belongs to a well-known class of drugs called calcium channel blockers. Calcium channel blockers remain a standard of care in the treatment of chronic stable angina and hypertension and continue to be highly endorsed by the medical community. Although comparative studies have demonstrated equivalent anti-angina effects for many marketed calcium channel blockers, a lower incidence of side effects with diltiazem was often reported in these studies. According to IMS figures for 2004, sales of diltiazem products in the U.S. totaled $799 million. In an effort to provide both therapeutic blood levels of diltiazem for longer periods of time and improved patient compliance, several slow or extended release preparations of diltiazem have been developed for the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina. However, these commercially available, once-daily, extended release formulations produce only a partial reduction of chronic stable angina. According to published studies, currently marketed diltiazem products such as Tiazac®, Cardizem® and Dilacor XR® only reduce the number of angina attacks by approximately 50-60 percent when given at FDA-approved therapeutic doses. We believe incomplete reduction in angina demonstrated by current treatments may be the result of inadequate blood levels of the drug in the morning hours, when approximately half of all angina attacks occur. Experts in chronic stable angina have confirmed their dissatisfaction with the ability of current extended release products to adequately treat many of their patients on a once-a-day basis. DOV Diltiazem, our proprietary formulation of diltiazem, is our product candidate for the treatment of angina and hypertension. DOV diltiazem combines an immediate release component with a controlled release component in order to provide prompt and improved blood levels throughout the day compared to currently marketed diltiazem products. We believe that DOV diltiazem will reduce morning angina attacks to a significantly greater extent than commercially available products because of its combination of immediate and extended release components. Data from three Phase I trials indicate that our patented formulation produces clinically relevant blood levels within 30 minutes of administration and results in higher blood levels in the morning than Tiazac. In 2004, we reached agreement with the FDA’s Cardio-Renal Division on the scope and design of the clinical trials required for submission of an NDA for DOV diltiazem. The FDA agreed that no additional preclinical or toxicology studies would be required for the NDA submission. We are currently evaluating strategic relationships to advance DOV diltiazem into Phase III clinical development and commercialization while continuing to focus primarily on our CNS programs. We intend that further clinical development of DOV diltiazem be conducted by a licensee of this product, assuming we are able to secure attractive license terms. Collaborations and Licensing Agreements One of our business strategies is to establish alliances with industry leaders to access their unique technologies and capabilities. To date, we have established the following collaborations and licensing agreements: 12 Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. and Pfizer, Inc. In June 1998, we sublicensed indiplon to Neurocrine on an exclusive, worldwide basis for ten years or, if later, the expiration of any patent covering either the compound or the marketed product, currently 2023. At the end of the term, Neurocrine will be deemed to have a fully-paid, royalty-free license to the compound and the marketed product. During the term of the agreement and after payments to our licensor, Wyeth, we are entitled to receive a royalty equal to 3.5 percent of net sales for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents in such country and a period of the first ten years post launch in a given market, if any, and additional net milestone payments of $1.5 million upon FDA approval. As noted below, the royalty term has been expanded to include Neurocrine patents covering indiplon. During 2004, we received $2.0 million from Neurocrine for the milestone due upon NDA filing. In December 2002, Neurocrine and Pfizer announced a global agreement for the exclusive worldwide development and commercialization of indiplon. Neurocrine and Pfizer are responsible for the research, development and commercialization of indiplon. We have the right to terminate our agreement with Neurocrine, with regard to the entire territory, if Neurocrine terminates the research and development program or halts the research and development program for six months or longer within the U.S., other than for reasons relating to regulatory constraints. Likewise, if Neurocrine halts, for six months or longer, or terminates the research and development program in any other country, we have the right to terminate the agreement with respect to that country. If we terminate the agreement due to an uncured breach by Neurocrine, it must transfer to us all information and know-how related to indiplon or the marketed product, and all governmental filings and approvals. In February 2004, we reorganized our sublicense agreement with Neurocrine in respect to indiplon. As part of the reorganization, Neurocrine acquired Wyeth’s interest under the license covering indiplon entered into between Wyeth and DOV in 1998. The restated sublicense agreement with Neurocrine expands the royalty term to include the life of Neurocrine patents as well as Wyeth patents covering indiplon. The revised agreement allows Neurocrine to pay to us royalty payments, that are 3.5 percent of net sales, and milestone payments net of those amounts that would be owed by DOV to Wyeth. In addition, the first milestone payment to Wyeth of $2.5 million upon an NDA was changed to $1.0 million upon an NDA filing and $1.5 million upon an NDA approval. Thus the net milestones payable to DOV is $2.0 million upon an NDA filing (which was paid in December 2004) and $1.5 million upon an NDA approval. Merck Agreement On August 5, 2004, we entered into an agreement with Merck for the worldwide development and commercialization of DOV 21,947 for all therapeutic indications and of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, anxiety and addiction. Additionally, Merck obtained rights of first offer and refusal regarding a licensing agreement for DOV 102,677 under certain circumstances and for additional consideration. Merck assumed financial responsibility for development and commercialization of a product containing at least one of the licensed compounds. The parties agreed to work together to clinically develop licensed product and we have reserved the right to co-promote the sales of product in the U.S. to psychiatrists and other specialists who treat depression. Under the agreement, we received a $35.0 million up-front licensing payment. In addition, we could receive as much as $300.0 million for achieving certain clinical development and regulatory milestones for multiple territories and approval of two indications, and up to $120.0 million upon achievement of certain sales thresholds. Merck assumed responsibility for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of DOV 21,947 and agreed to pay us royalties on worldwide sales, if any, which increase based upon certain sales thresholds. 13 In August 2005, we announced that our license agreement with Merck for DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303 had been amended. The milestones, royalties and business terms originally established in the August 2004 license agreement were retained in full along with DOV’s co-promote rights. The amendment transfers to us from Merck certain development contemplated by the license agreement. It also permits expansion of the parties’ relationship to include an additional TRI from the DOV preclinical pipeline for inclusion in the original license agreement with no additional upfront payment. If the DOV studies for DOV 21,947 are successful, we may be reimbursed by Merck for pre-agreed expenses and may receive a success premium. Subsequently, we could receive payment for achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones pursuant to the existing agreement. Both parties retain certain termination rights. Elan Corporation, plc and Elan International Services, Ltd. In January 1999, Elan and we established a joint venture and formed DOV (Bermuda), Ltd., or DOV Bermuda, a holding company, and Nascime Limited, or Nascime, an operating company, to develop controlled release formulations of bicifadine for the treatment of pain and ocinaplon for the treatment of anxiety disorders and epilepsy. Pursuant to the original agreements, through December 31, 2002, Elan and we funded the joint venture in proportion to our equity interests in the venture, 19.9 percent and 80.1 percent, respectively. Effective January 1, 2003, Elan no longer funded its pro rata portion of the joint venture's expenses and, after funding ours and Elan’s portion of the joint venture's expenses for the first and second quarters of 2003, our equity ownership in the joint venture increased to 83.0 percent from 80.1 percent. On October 21, 2003, we entered into an agreement with Elan and certain of Elan’s affiliates to terminate the joint venture and acquire 100 percent ownership of Nascime, the joint venture’s operating company. In connection with this agreement, among other things, Elan and we agreed to eliminate all material consent rights found in the 1999 stock purchase and license agreements. The termination agreement ended Elan’s involvement in the nearly five-year joint venture established to develop controlled release formulations of bicifadine and ocinaplon. Pursuant to the termination agreement, we paid $5.0 million to a subsidiary of Elan in respect of its 17 percent equity stake in the joint venture. We agreed to indemnify Elan and its affiliates, subject to certain limitations, for claims arising from the past, present and any future activities of the joint venture companies, including activities related to the conduct of the joint venture's clinical trials. Each party waived any rights and released the other parties from any claims arising under certain of the principal joint venture agreements. Elan granted to Nascime, now wholly owned by us, a new non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide license to make and sell the two product candidates in controlled release formulations using the Elan intellectual property licensed to the joint venture, including that developed during the venture. In connection with the license grant, Elan will be entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $3.0 million when the products are licensed or come to market. We recently have taken steps to transfer to us the intellectual property held by Nascime. Biovail Laboratories Incorporated and Biovail In January 2001, we entered into a license, research and development agreement with Biovail to develop, manufacture and market DOV diltiazem. Biovail’s license to use DOV diltiazem was exclusive and worldwide in scope. In March 2003, following Biovail’s receipt of marketing authorization for Cardizem LA, we and Biovail agreed to terminate the license agreement. The separation agreement provided for the return to us of the patent license covering DOV diltiazem, a $1.0 million payment by us to Biovail and contingent payments by us to Biovail of $3.0 million upon issuance of marketing authorization for the drug and up to $7.5 million based upon sales, if any. We and Biovail have delivered mutual releases relating to the license agreement. Market Exclusivity, Patent Protection and Intellectual Property We believe that establishing and maintaining market exclusivity for our product candidates is critical to our long-term success. We utilize a number of methods to establish and maintain market exclusivity, including taking advantage of statutory market exclusivity provisions, seeking patent protection for our product candidates and otherwise protecting our intellectual property. 14 The Hatch-Waxman Act Under the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, or Hatch-Waxman Act, newly approved drugs and indications benefit from a statutory period of marketing exclusivity. Under the Hatch-Waxman Act, the FDA provides marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval for a particular new drug by prohibiting the filing of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA, by a generic competitor for up to five years after the drug is first approved. The Hatch-Waxman Act also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for a new indication for an existing drug. This market exclusivity is provided even in the absence of patent protection for the approved drug. If the drug is also claimed in a patent, a third party may file an ANDA four years after the drug is first approved, provided that the third party certifies that the applicable patent is invalid or not infringed. Because they appear to be compounds with new active ingredients, we believe ocinaplon, bicifadine and DOV 216,303 will each be eligible for the five-year exclusivity provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act if they are the first approved drugs containing their active compounds. Since certain patents relating to bicifadine and ocinaplon have expired, in the absence of new patent protection based on patent applications currently being pursued by DOV, these market exclusivity provisions may be of particular importance to the success of these compounds if they are approved by the FDA. The Hatch-Waxman Act also permits an extension of up to five years of the term of a patent for new approved products to compensate for patent term lost during the drug development and FDA regulatory review process if the applicant can show that research and development has been sufficiently continuous during the FDA review process. Only one patent applicable to any approved drug is eligible for extension under these provisions. In addition, this extension must be applied for after NDA approval of the new drug covered by the patent and before expiration of the patent. We will review at the time patent term extensions for some of our current patents under the Hatch-Waxman Act to add patent life beyond the expiration date. Since patent term extensions for patent term lost require prior NDA approval of the product, our prospective eligibility for extensions is subject to the expected length of clinical trials, patent life and factors involved in the filing and approval of an NDA. Patents and Intellectual Property Protection We seek to protect our rights in the compounds, formulations, processes, therapeutic uses, technologies and other valuable intellectual property invented, developed, licensed or used by us through a number of methods, including the use of patents, patent extensions, license agreements and confidentiality agreements. We have or have licensed from others twelve issued U.S. patents, seven of which have expired, including the patent for the use of bicifadine for pain, the use of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression and a patent covering ocinaplon. The patent that currently provides protection for the use of bicifadine and DOV 216,303 for alcohol, cocaine and other addictive disorders is due to expire in December 2018. In 2002, we filed a provisional patent application claiming a novel, three-dimensional composition of matter for bicifadine, as well as therapeutic uses and methods of manufacture for this composition. This application was perfected in 2003 as a regular utility patent application and a separate, international, or PCT, patent application. Also in 2002 and 2003, we filed U.S. provisional and U.S. utility and PCT patent applications claiming novel controlled release formulations of bicifadine. In 2004, we filed a U.S. provisional patent application directed to the use of bicifadine for controlling fever and menopausal symptoms, including hot flashes. This application was perfected in 2005 as regular U.S. utility and PCT patent applications. In 2005 we filed a U.S. provisional application directed to therapeutic uses, compositions and methods employing bicifadine to treat neuropathic disorders, including neuropathic pain, and a second U.S. provisional application directed to therapeutic uses, compositions and methods employing bicifadine to treat urological disorders, including urinary incontinence. Each of these provisional applications is planned to be perfected in 2006 as U.S. regular utility and PCT patent applications. Also in 2005 we filed a U.S. provisional application directed to novel synthetic methods and intermediates for the production of bicifadine and related compounds, and this application was recently perfected as U.S. regular utility and PCT patent applications. In 2006, we intend to file several additional patent applications directed to novel therapeutic uses and compositions of bicifadine. 15 The patent covering ocinaplon composition of matter expired in June 2003. Intermediates useful for manufacturing ocinaplon are currently protected by a patent that is due to expire in February 2007. In 2002, we filed a provisional patent claiming controlled release formulations of ocinaplon. Additional patent applications are planned for filing in 2006 directed to new compositions, formulations and methods for production of ocinaplon. A composition of matter patent for indiplon, patent no. 6,399,621, which falls under our license agreement and our sublicense to Neurocrine, was issued to a former Wyeth subsidiary, American Cyanamid, in June 2002 and is due to expire in August 2020. A further composition of matter patent covering indiplon, patent no. 6,544,999, was issued to Neurocrine in April 2003 and is due to expire in October 2020. A further composition of matter patent covering a novel polymorphic form (different crystal structure) of indiplon, patent no. 6,903,106 was issued in June 2005 and is due to expire in 2023. In December 2000, a patent issued covering the compound formulation of DOV diltiazem. This patent is due to expire in April 2018. Additionally, in May 2001, we filed a patent application covering an additional release characteristic of DOV diltiazem. In April 2002, a patent was issued claiming the composition of matter, use and method of treatment and method of manufacture for DOV 21,947, a triple uptake inhibitor under development for the treatment of depression. This patent is due to expire in January 2021. In January 2003, a patent was issued claiming the composition of matter, use and method of manufacture of DOV 102,677, our candidate for the treatment of indications including depression, obesity, Parkinson’s disease, restless leg syndrome and attention deficit disorder. This patent will expire in 2023. Additional patent applications are planned for filing in 2005 directed to new compositions and uses for DOV 102,677. In 2006, we received a Notice of Allowance on a U.S. patent directed to methods for production of DOV 102,677, which patent is scheduled to issue in the near future. In addition to protecting our compounds described above, we intend to supplement our current patents with additional patent applications covering new compositions of matter, uses, methods of manufacture and formulations, as appropriate. Once a basic product patent expires, we may be able to derive additional commercial exclusivity and benefits, including from: · later-granted patents on processes or intermediates related to the most economical method of manufacture of the active ingredient of the product; · patents directed to additional therapeutic uses; and · patents directed to related compositions and improved clinical formulations. In-Licenses Wyeth. In May 1998, we licensed from Wyeth, on an exclusive, worldwide basis, indiplon, bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 for any indication, including insomnia, pain, anxiety and depression. We have the right to develop and commercialize these compounds, including the right to grant sublicenses to third parties, subject to Wyeth's right of first refusal. In February, 2004, we reorganized our exclusive license agreement with Wyeth. Under the restated agreement, we are obligated to pay Wyeth royalties of 3.5 percent of net sales for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and 5.0 percent of net sales for bicifadine, and milestones of $2.5 million each for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and $5.0 million for bicifadine upon NDA filing, and $4.5 million each for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 upon a NDA approval. The royalty rate for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 will increase by 0.5 percent should we partner or sublicense that compound. In addition, should we partner or sublicense a compound, the next milestone payable to Wyeth for that compound will be accelerated to become due upon partnering. Since we licensed certain rights to DOV 216,303 to Merck, should Merck achieve sales on this compound, we will owe Wyeth a royalty of 4.0 percent on those sales. The milestone payable to them upon NDA filing of $2.5 million was accelerated and paid in 2004. As part of the reorganization, Neurocrine acquired Wyeth’s interest under the license covering indiplon, with the result that the 2.5 percent royalty payable by us to Wyeth and the $2.5 million in milestones was eliminated. Accordingly, the reorganization with Neurocrine allows Neurocrine to pay to us royalty and milestone payments net of those that would be owed by us to Wyeth, or 3.5 percent on worldwide net sales, if any, and a $1.5 million milestone upon NDA approval. 16 If Wyeth terminates the license upon an uncured breach by us, and by Neurocrine under the standby license, we must transfer to Pfizer all information, data and know-how relating to the products and any government authorizations, in addition to our rights derived from our sublicensees with regard to the products. The agreement expires as to each compound for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents in such country and a period of ten years following the launch of each compound in each country. Upon such expiration, with respect to each country we will have a fully paid, royalty-free license with the right to make, use or sell the compounds without any further monetary obligation to Wyeth. Elan. On October 21, 2003, in connection with termination of the joint venture with Elan, Elan granted to Nascime Limited, the former joint venture operating company, now wholly owned by us, a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide license to make and sell controlled release formulations of ocinaplon and bicifadine using the Elan intellectual property licensed to the joint venture, including that developed during the venture. We are required to pay Elan milestones, amounting to $1.0 million for ocinaplon and $0.5 million for bicifadine upon license of the products to a third party for development or commercialization, and additional equal amounts upon commercial launch, or an aggregate of $3.0 million upon commercial launch of both products if we do not license the products to a third party. The Elan intellectual property under license includes certain Elan know-how and all Elan patents owned, licensed or controlled by Elan subsequent to the license agreement. We recently have taken steps to transfer to us the intellectual property held by Nascime. Manufacturing We have and will continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We also intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities for large-scale commercialization. In this regard, we have and will continue to engage those contract manufacturers who have the capability to manufacture drug products in amounts required for commercialization. Marketing and Sales We have limited marketing and no sales or distribution capabilities. In December 2005, we established an internal division of strategic marketing and commercialization. To augment our limited capabilities in this area, we will need to either acquire or internally develop sales and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us, in order to commercialize any of our product candidates. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and corresponding regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and the efficacy of a drug product. In the U.S., drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before they can begin clinical trials in the U.S. An IND becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless the FDA objects to it. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time-consuming and costly three-phase process. 17 Phase I Refers typically to closely-monitored clinical trials and includes the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into human patients or normal volunteer subjects. Phase I clinical trials are designed to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of a drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing drug doses and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. Phase I trials also include the study of structure-activity relationships and mechanism of action in humans, as well as studies in which investigational drugs are used as research tools to explore biological phenomena or disease processes. During Phase I clinical trials, sufficient information about a drug’s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects should be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled, scientifically valid, Phase II studies. The total number of subjects and patients included in Phase I clinical trials varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80. Phase II Refers to controlled clinical trials conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of a drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition under study and to determine the common short-term side effects and risks associated with the drug. These clinical trials are typically well controlled, closely monitored and conducted in a relatively small number of patients, usually involving no more than several hundred patients. Phase III Refers to expanded controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials, also involving patients with the disease or condition under study. These clinical trials are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of a drug has been obtained. They are intended to gather additional information about the effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit-risk relationship of the drug and to provide an adequate basis for physician labeling. Phase III trials usually include from several hundred to several thousand patients. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the U.S. and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date we have conducted certain of our clinical trials outside the U.S., where they are monitored by the cognizant national regulatory agencies. Currently, on-going clinical trials are being conducted in the U.S., Canada, Guatemala, India and Israel. All clinical trial test design and results, whether the trial is conducted in the U.S. or abroad, are subject to review by the FDA following IND or NDA filings. Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA, in the form of a NDA, for approval to commence commercial sales. In response, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if the FDA determines that the application does not meet regulatory approval criteria. FDA approval may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA may prevent a drug developer from marketing a product under a label for its desired indications, which may impair commercialization of the product. Similar regulatory procedures must also be complied with in countries outside the U.S. If the FDA approves the NDA, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe in the U.S. After approval, the drug developer must submit periodic reports to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may request or require additional trials to evaluate any adverse reactions or long-term effects. In addition to studies requested by the FDA after approval, a drug developer may conduct other trials and studies to explore use of the approved compound for treatment of new indications. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to broaden the application and use of the drug and its acceptance in the medical community. We will have to complete an approval process, similar to the U.S. approval process, in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the U.S. We face the risk that the resulting prices would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our collaborators. 18 Competition The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and marked by a number of established, large pharmaceutical companies, as well as smaller emerging companies, whose activities are directly focused on our target markets and areas of expertise. Many of our competitors possess greater financial, managerial and technical resources and have established reputations for successfully developing and marketing drugs, all of which put us at a competitive disadvantage. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our product candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our drug candidates. Furthermore, new developments occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We have five product candidates undergoing DOV-driven or collaborative clinical development addressing four different and substantial pharmaceutical markets. Competition in these markets includes the following drugs and pharmaceutical companies: Insomnia Market Indiplon would compete in the sedative and hypnotic market, which, as defined by IMS, demonstrated one of the highest sales growth rates among any therapeutic area in 2005. Sales for the year ending 2005 were $2.8 billion, with a one year growth rate of more than 30 percent. Prescription growth jumped into double-digit figures with a one year increase of almost 12 percent. Sanofi-Aventis’ Ambien continues to dominate the market with sales of $2.1 billion. Sepracor’s Lunesta was just launched in March, 2005 and captured $322 million in sales by year’s end, demonstrating the market’s sensitivity and acceptance to novel new entries. Sanofi-Aventis launched Ambien CR in September 2005 and captured $73 million of sales in a four-month period. Pain Market Bicifadine would target the analgesic market. The two principal classes of pain treatments, as defined by IMS, are the antiarthritic class and the analgesic class. Due to the incidence and prevalence of pain, both classes have a very large volume in sales and in total prescriptions. Sales of antiarthritics in 2005 were $7.9 billion which represents a one year growth decrease of 19.1 percent in value due to the withdrawal of additional COX-2 inhibitors (for example, Celebrex and Bextra, both marketed by Pfizer). This has led other antiarthritics, such as Mobic®, marketed by Boehringer Ingelheim, to capture a significant share of this class. In 2005, Mobic sales more than doubled with total sales of $1 billion. Sales of the analgesic class, as defined by IMS, reached $10.5 billion in 2005 which represented a flat annual growth rate and an increase of approximately five percent in total prescriptions. This class is dominated by narcotics. Sales of longer acting non-injectable narcotics that are actively marketed such as Actiq® by Cephalon, Inc., Avinza® by Ligand Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Kadian® by Alpharma, Inc., continue to show strong growth in sales and prescriptions. Non-narcotics, such as the synthetic non-narcotic subclass as defined by IMS, demonstrated positive growth in total prescriptions, but negative growth in 2005 sales because of generic erosion in price. Branded synthetic non-narcotic products such as Ultram® and Ultracet®, both marketed by Johnson & Johnson, enjoyed very strong sales when heavily promoted, but are now off-patent and are demonstrating significant sales declines. Conversely, generic tramadol has been showing continual growth in prescriptions since entering the market in 2002. Depression Market DOV 21,947 and 216,303 would target the antidepressant market, which is dominated by SSRIs and SNRIs that comprise nearly 80 percent of the antidepressant market. Significant SSRI market positions are held by Zoloft, marketed by Pfizer, Celexa and Lexapro®, marketed by Forest Laboratories, Inc., and Paxil, marketed by GlaxoSmithKline. SNRI market leaders include Effexor, marketed by Wyeth, and Cymbalta, marketed by Eli Lilly and Co., which is also co-promoted for neuropathic pain. In 2004 IMS estimated that the SSRI and SNRI markets combined totaled $11 billion. 19 Alcohol Abuse DOV 102,677 would compete in the alcohol abuse market. Campral®, marketed by Forest, is the leading prescription pharmaceutical in this market. Alcohol abuse is an underserved space, met by a general lack of effective treatments. The most recent alcohol use and abuse study conducted by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“The 2001 National Household Survey on Drug Abuse”), estimates that approximately 14 million Americans - 7.4 percent of the population - meet the diagnostic criteria for alcohol abuse or alcoholism. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had 111 employees, consisting of 109 full-time employees and two part-time employees. Of the full-time employees, 31 hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe the relationship with our employees is good. Our Scientific Advisory Board Our scientific advisory board, or SAB, advises us with respect to our product development strategy as well as the scientific and business merits of licensing opportunities and acquisition of compounds and the availability of opportunities for collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies. The SAB consists of a group of highly regarded and experienced scientists and clinicians. A formal, three-day meeting is held off-site annually in the spring. We have, in the past, compensated certain SAB members with stock options pursuant to our 2000 stock option and grant plan, and expenses for attendance at the annual meeting. Certain of the SAB members receive compensation for consulting services. The current SAB members are: Robert Cancro, M.D. is the chairman of our Scientific Advisory Board and one of our co-founders. From 1976 until his retirement in 2006, Dr. Cancro served as professor and chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine, Director of Psychiatry at New York University Hospital and director of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research. Today, he continues to serve as a professor in the Department of Psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine and as director of the Mental Illness Prevention Center. Prior to 1976, Dr. Cancro was a professor in the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Connecticut Health Center. Dr. Cancro is a widely published, internationally recognized psychiatrist and educator, having received numerous honors and awards. He is on the editorial board of several scientific journals and is an examiner for the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology Inc. Dr. Cancro is a Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, the American College of Psychiatrists and the American College of Physicians. Dr. Cancro is president and a director of the International Committee Against Mental Illness and Chairman of the Section on Psychiatric Rehabilitation of the World Psychiatric Association. Arvid Carlsson, M.D., Ph.D. is a world-renowned neuropharmacologist and the recipient of numerous prizes and awards, including the Nobel Prize and the Legion of Honour. Dr. Carlsson has been Professor Emeritus at the University of Gothenburg, Sweden since 1989. Prior to that, he was Professor, Pharmacology Department, University of Gothenburg since 1959 and served as chairman from 1959 to 1976. He has conducted groundbreaking research in the areas of depression, schizophrenia and Parkinson’s disease. John W. Daly, Ph.D. is an internationally known chemist/pharmacologist. Now a scientist emeritus in the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Dr. Daly was chief of NIDDK’s Laboratory of Bioorganic Chemistry, a laboratory he founded and headed from 1981 to 1997. Natural products discovered through the research of Dr. Daly’s lab, primarily alkaloids derived from amphibian skin, have had a major impact on knowledge of how the nervous system functions and how drugs interact with the nervous system. During Dr. Daly’s 40-year tenure at NIH, his numerous accomplishments have included the discovery of the “NIH Shift” — an unexpected molecular process involved in the conversion of the amino acids phenylalanine and tryptophan to the important neurotransmitters dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin. 20 Author of more than 500 research papers, a book (Cyclic Nucleotides in the Nervous System) and many book chapters, Dr. Daly was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1997. Among his many other honors are the Hillebrand Award from the American Chemical Society in 1978, the Research Achievement Award from the American Society of Pharmacognosy in 1997, the Karl Wilhelm Scheele Award from the Swedish Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences in 1999 and in 2002, the American Chemical Society’s Ernest Guenther Award in the Chemistry of Natural Products. That same year, he was also named among the most-cited pharmacologists in the world. David H. Farb, Ph.D. is a Professor and has served since 1990 as Chairman of the Department of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics at the Boston University School of Medicine, where he also serves as Director of the Program in Biomedical Neuroscience. Additionally, he is Director of the university-wide interdisciplinary NIGMS-funded Biomolecular Pharmacology Training Program, the interdepartmental Program in Biomedical Neuroscience and heads the Laboratory of Molecular Neurobiology. Dr. Farb chairs the Executive Committee for the Medical Sciences Training Program and is a member of the Bioinformatics Program. He is currently President of New England Pharmacologists Chapter of ASPET. Prior to joining BU, Dr. Farb was a full professor with tenure and Head of the Molecular Pharmacology Research Program at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center. He also was elected Presiding Officer of the Graduate School at SUNY. While in New York, Dr. Farb was elected Chair of the Section of Biological Sciences at the New York Academy of Sciences, where he subsequently founded the Section of Neuroscience. He received his B.A. in Chemistry from Long Island University and the Ph.D. in Biochemistry at Brandeis University. Dr. Farb’s current research is directed toward understanding the mechanisms of action of abused substances and steroid hormones and their interactions with excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors in the central nervous system. The research also focuses on the mechanism of action and discovery of neuromodulators as therapeutic agents and on the structure, function, and cellular dynamics of ion channels and receptors in the brain and spinal cord. Roger Guillemin, M.D., Ph.D. is a Nobel Laureate and distinguished professor at The Salk Institute. Dr. Guillemin received the Nobel Prize for his work on brain hormones, which brought to light an entirely new class of hormones important in regulating growth, development, reproduction and stress response. Drugs based upon these molecules are used for the management or treatment of infertility, precocious puberty, dwarfism, diabetes, prostate cancer and pituitary tumors (acromegaly). He has served on several committees of the National Institutes of Health, as President of the Endocrine Society and is a member of the National Academy of Science and of several other foreign academies. Arnold S. Lippa, Ph.D. is a co-founder of DOV and served as our Chief Executive Officer from April 1995 to July 2005. Since our inception in April 1995, Dr. Lippa has served as our Chairman of our Board of Directors. Prior to 1985, he served as Director of Molecular Neurobiology and held other positions at American Cyanamid. In addition, Dr. Lippa has consulted for various pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and has been a graduate faculty professor at the New York University School of Medicine and the City University of New York. Website Availability of Reports Our Internet website address is http://www.dovpharm.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Corporate Information We were incorporated in May 1995 in New Jersey and reincorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 433 Hackensack Avenue, Hackensack, NJ 07601. The telephone number of our principal executive offices is (201) 968-0980. 21 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the events covered by the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, our actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of the following factors. Risks Related to our Business Our stock price is likely to be volatile and the market price of our common stock may decline. Market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical companies have been particularly volatile. In particular, our stock price has fluctuated between a high of $21.49 and a low of $12.79 since January 1, 2005. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · results of clinical trials conducted by us or on our behalf, or by our competitors, such as results in the ongoing Phase III clinical trial with bicifadine in patients with chronic low back pain expected early in the second quarter of 2006; · delays in initiating clinical trials; · business or legal developments concerning our collaborators or licensees, including Merck, Pfizer and Neurocrine; · delays or disagreements with Merck in the development of DOV 21,947 to be conducted by us under the August 2005 amendment to the license agreement with Merck; · regulatory developments or enforcement in the United States and foreign countries, such as the result of the projected May 15, 2006 action by the FDA for the indiplon NDA filings; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · public concern over our drugs that treat CNS disorders, including any drugs that we may develop in the future; · litigation; · future sales of our common stock; 22 · general market conditions; · changes in the structure of health care payment systems; · failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. If any of the foregoing risks occur, our stock price could fall and in some cases expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. In this regard, following a decline in the aftermarket trading price of our common stock in connection with our initial public offering, beginning on April 30, 2002, a number of class action lawsuits were filed naming us as defendants, in addition to certain of our officers and directors and certain of our underwriters. On December 20, 2002, we entered into a settlement agreement, which was approved by the court on April 16, 2003, to settle these lawsuits. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we have paid the class members (inclusive of their attorneys' fees and costs) $250,000 in cash and issued them six-year warrants to purchase 500,000 shares of our common stock with an exercise price of $10.00 per share. Upon issuance, we determined the value of the warrants to be $2.2 million. If our outstanding convertible debt is converted into shares of our common stock, existing common stockholders will experience immediate equity dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. The 2.5% subordinated convertible debentures that we issued in December 2004 and January 2005 are convertible, at the option of the holders, into shares of our common stock at initial conversion rates of 43.9560 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, or $22.75 per share, subject to adjustment in certain circumstances. If all the debentures were converted at their initial conversion rate, we would be required to issue approximately 3,516,484 shares of our common stock. We have reserved shares of our authorized common stock for issuance upon conversion of the debentures. If the debentures are converted into shares of our common stock, our existing stockholders will experience immediate equity dilution and our common stock price may be subject to significant downward pressure. We have incurred losses since our inception and expect to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future, and we may never reach profitability. Since our inception in April 1995 through December 31, 2005, we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $153.3 million. We have not yet completed the development, including obtaining regulatory approvals, of any product candidate and, consequently, have not generated any revenues from the sale of products. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates, we may never achieve significant sales revenue and we expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating expenses and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: · conduct clinical trials; · conduct research and development on existing and new product candidates; · make milestone payments; · seek regulatory approvals for our product candidates; · commercialize our product candidates, if approved; · hire additional clinical, scientific and management personnel; · add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel; and · identify additional compounds and acquire rights from third parties to those compounds through a license to us. 23 We must generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue and we may never be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We are dependent on the successful outcome of clinical trials for our lead product candidates. None of our product candidates are currently approved for sale by the FDA or by any other regulatory agency in the world, and our product candidates may never be approved for sale or become commercially viable. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, they must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans and we intend to devote a significant portion of our resources in the upcoming year to the development of bicifadine. Our success will depend on the success of our currently ongoing clinical trials and clinical trials that have not yet begun. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials including, but not limited to, the possibilities that: · we may discover that a product candidate causes or may cause harmful side effects; · we may discover that a product candidate, even if safe when taken alone, may interfere with the actions of other drugs taken at the same time such that its marketability is materially reduced; · we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the expected therapeutic results in humans; · a product candidate may lend itself to user abuse, in which case labeling may adversely affect its marketability; · results may not be statistically significant or predictive of results that will be obtained from large-scale, advanced clinical trials; · we or the FDA may suspend or delay initiation of further clinical trials of our product candidates for any of a number of reasons, including safety or delay in obtaining clinical trial material; · we may be delayed in the FDA protocol review process; · patient recruitment may be slower than expected; and · patients may drop out of our clinical trials. In October 2003, the FDA placed the start of our Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon, our anti-anxiety product candidate, on hold and requested that we produce additional safety information. We supplied this information to the FDA and with FDA concurrence initiated a Phase III clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2004. In August 2005, we announced that we had suspended the trial due to a recent occurrence of enzyme elevations in liver function tests, or LFTs, for one subject in the trial and, following our trial report to the FDA, the agency joined in the clinical hold. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in ocinaplon clinical trials. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was eight percent. Based upon these data, we have discontinued the development of ocinaplon for generalized anxiety disorder. Given the uncertainty surrounding the regulatory and clinical trial process, we may not be able to successfully advance the development of effective or safe, commercially viable products. The August 2005 amendment to our license agreement with Merck conditions Merck’s obligation to reimburse us, including to reimburse us at a premium, for certain clinical tests on DOV 21,947 and to pay us a development milestone upon the successful outcome of a certain test measured by criteria to be agreed upon by the parties. We may not be able to achieve agreement with Merck on such criteria. 24 If we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize any one or more of our product candidates, this could severely harm our business, impair our ability to generate revenues and adversely impact our stock price. We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, approvals may be delayed or the approvals we receive may not be sufficient to fulfill our current goals for our product candidates. Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates and in our ongoing research and development activities. Our partner Neurocrine filed two NDAs for indiplon for the treatment of insomnia in April and May 2005. All our other product candidates are in various stages of research and development and we have not yet requested or received regulatory approval to commercialize any product candidate from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing, clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. The approval process may take many years to complete and the approvals we receive may not allow us to pursue all the desired indications or uses for each of our product candidates. Additionally, even after receipt of FDA approval, the FDA may request additional clinical trials to evaluate any adverse reactions or long-term effects. The scope and expense of such post-approval trials could be extensive and costly to us. Any FDA or other regulatory approval of our product candidates, once obtained, may be withdrawn. If our product candidates are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments. Any failure to receive regulatory approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates would have a material adverse effect on our business. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. If we, or our collaborators or licensees, fail to obtain or maintain or encounter delays in obtaining or maintaining regulatory approvals, it could adversely affect the marketing of any product candidates we develop, our ability to receive product or royalty revenues and our liquidity and capital resources. As noted above, in October 2003, the FDA placed the start of our Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon, on hold and requested that we produce additional safety information. We supplied this information to the FDA and with FDA approval initiated a Phase III clinical trial in the fourth quarter of 2004. In August 2005, we announced that we had suspended the trial following a recent occurrence of enzyme elevations in LFTs for one subject in the trial and, following our trial report to the FDA, the agency joined in the clinical hold. We have since evaluated the safety findings from all subjects in ocinaplon clinical trials. During this study the overall incidence of an elevation in liver enzymes greater than three times normal was eight percent. Based upon these data, we have discontinued the development of ocinaplon for GAD. On September 28, 2004, we announced that we had initiated a pivotal, Phase III, U.S. clinical trial in patients with moderate to severe chronic lower back pain. This clinical trial is being conducted in accordance with a protocol (revised as described below) that we originally submitted to the FDA in accordance with the FDA’s special protocol assessment, or SPA, guidelines in May 2004. Following submission of the protocol to the FDA, we had meetings with the agency to reach agreement on the study design. Following our meeting with the FDA in September 2004, we revised the protocol in response to comments from the FDA, and initiated this clinical trial in accordance with the revised protocol. We received oral confirmation from the FDA that the revised protocol was acceptable, however did not obtain formal documentation of the agreement from the FDA regarding this revised protocol. In a letter dated February 2006, the FDA stated that there was no formal agreement for the protocol because the protocol had been amended subsequent to the original SPA submission. We can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an NDA review process, if any, the FDA will not determine that a previously approved special protocol assessment for a particular protocol is no longer valid. This could have a material adverse effect on the NDA approval process, if any. 25 Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenue is unpredictable and has fluctuated significantly from year-to-year and quarter-to-quarter and will likely continue to be highly volatile. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results are not good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict our future results. In the future, our operating results in a particular period may not meet the expectations of any securities analysts whose attention we may attract, or those of our investors, which may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We rely on the efforts of Neurocrine and Pfizer and ultimately Merck for the development, design and implementation of clinical trials, regulatory approval and commercialization of indiplon and our product candidates DOV 216,303 and DOV 21,947. In 1998, we sublicensed indiplon to Neurocrine without retaining any material rights other than the right to receive milestone payments and royalties on product sales, if any. In December 2002, Neurocrine entered into a development and commercialization agreement with Pfizer for indiplon. In August 2004, we sublicensed DOV 216,303 for certain indications and DOV 21,947 for all indications to Merck without retaining any material rights other than our participation in the ongoing clinical plan collaboration, the right to receive milestone payments and royalties on product sales, if any, and co-promotion. The clinical development, design and implementation of clinical trials, the preparation of filings for FDA approval and, if approved, the subsequent commercialization of these product candidates are within the control of our partners. We will lack control over the process and, as a result, our ability to receive any revenue from these product candidates is dependent on the success of their efforts. Our partners may fail or otherwise decide not, or otherwise not have the ability, to devote the resources necessary to successfully develop and commercialize the product candidates, which would impair our ability to receive milestone or royalty payments, if any, in respect of the product candidates. We entered into an amendment of our license agreement with Merck on August 5, 2005 which provides for us to conduct certain development of DOV 21,947 that would otherwise have been the responsibility of Merck under the terms of the agreement. Merck has the right to choose one of our preclinical triple reuptake inhibitors for inclusion under the license agreement with no further up-front fee. In the event we are unable to produce successful results from these clinical trials under criteria to be agreed upon by the parties, Merck will not be obligated to reimburse our costs of such development. Merck is not presently performing any clinical studies with DOV 21,947 under this arrangement and continues to have the right to terminate the license agreement. Our success in developing our product candidates depends upon the performance of our licensees and collaborative partners. Our efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our existing and any future product candidates depend in part upon the performance of our licensees and collaborative partners. Currently, we have license and collaborative agreements with Merck, Neurocrine, Pfizer and Wyeth. Neurocrine has entered into a development and commercialization agreement with Pfizer involving a further sublicense under our agreement with Neurocrine. In connection with certain of these agreements, we have granted certain rights, including development and marketing rights and rights to defend and enforce our intellectual property. We do not have day-to-day control over the activities of our licensees or collaborative partners and cannot assure you that they will fulfill their obligations to us, including their development and commercialization responsibilities in respect of our product candidates. Our license agreement with Merck was amended on August 5, 2005 to provide that we would assume responsibility for certain development of DOV 21,947 that Merck would have otherwise been responsible for under the agreement. Merck is not presently performing any clinical studies under this arrangement and continues to have the right to terminate the license agreement. We also cannot assure you that our licensees or collaborators will properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or that they will not utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or potentially invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability. Further, we cannot assure you that our licensees or collaborators will not encounter conflicts of interest, or changes in business strategy, or that they will not acquire or develop rights to competing products, all of which could adversely affect their willingness or ability to fulfill their obligations to us. 26 From January 1999 until October 21, 2003, Elan and we were engaged in developing controlled release formulations of bicifadine and ocinaplon pursuant to our joint venture. In October 2003, we acquired from Elan 100% ownership of Nascime, the joint venture's operating subsidiary, and the product candidates bicifadine and ocinaplon. This acquisition ended our involvement with Elan in the nearly five-year joint venture. In March 2003, we and Biovail terminated our collaboration for DOV diltiazem. Any failure on the part of our licensees or collaborators to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and affect our ability to realize product revenues. Disagreements with our licensees or collaborators could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which could be time-consuming and expensive. If we or our licensees or collaborators fail to maintain our existing agreements or establish new agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. This would significantly increase our capital requirements and may also delay the commercialization of our product candidates. Under the August 5, 2005, amendment to our license agreement with Merck, we are now responsible for designing, conducting and bearing the costs of certain clinical trials that Merck would have otherwise been obligated to perform under the terms of the license agreement. If the results of these clinical trials do not meet the criteria of success to be agreed upon with Merck, we may not be reimbursed for the costs of conducting such trials, unless Merck agrees. If Merck does not continue the license agreement, our business and results may be adversely affected. On August 5, 2005, we amended our license agreement with Merck such that we are now responsible for conducting certain development of DOV 21,947 that had been the responsibility of Merck under the agreement. Merck has the right to choose one of our preclincial triple reuptake inhibitors for inclusion under the agreement with no further up-front fee. In the event we are unable to produce successful results from these clinical trials under criteria of success to be agreed upon by the parties, Merck will not be obligated to reimburse our costs of such development. Merck is not presently performing any clinical studies with DOV 21,947 under this arrangement and continues to have the right to terminate the license agreement. If the trials are not successful, Merck may elect to reimburse us notwithstanding and retain DOV 21,947. If the Merck agreement is terminated, we will need to pursue alternative arrangements for the development and commercialization of DOV 21,947, and we may be unable to reach an agreement with another party on economic terms as favorable as those in the Merck agreement. The independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations that we rely upon to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials may not be diligent, careful or timely, and may make mistakes, in the conduct of our trials. We depend on independent clinical investigators and contract research organizations, or CROs, to assist in the conduct of our clinical trials under their agreements with us. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our programs. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our drug development programs, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the approval of our FDA applications and our introduction of new drugs. The CROs we contract with to assist with the execution of our clinical trials play a significant role in the conduct of the trials and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CROs to meet their obligations could adversely affect clinical development of our products. Moreover, these independent investigators and CROs may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. If independent investigators and CROs assist our competitors at our expense, it could harm our competitive position. Our existing collaborative and licensing agreements contain, and any such agreements that we may enter into in the future may contain, covenants that restrict our product development and commercialization activities. 27 Our existing license and collaborative agreements contain covenants that restrict our product development and our ability to compete in collaborative agreements. In addition, certain of our agreements no longer effective have involved, among other things, restrictions on the issuance of debt and equity securities and limitations on our ability to license our product candidates to third parties. Because of existing restrictive covenants, if our licensees or collaborators fail to fulfill their obligations to us or we are otherwise not able to maintain these relationships, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into alternative arrangements or assume the development of these product candidates ourselves. This would significantly affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Further, we cannot assure you, even if alternative arrangements are available to us, that they will be any less restrictive on our business activities. If we are unable to create sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We do not have any sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize our product candidates, if any are approved, we must either acquire or internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us. If we obtain FDA approval for our existing product candidates, we intend to rely on relationships with one or more pharmaceutical companies or other third parties with established distribution systems and direct sales forces to market our product candidates. If we decide to market any of our product candidates directly, we must either acquire or internally develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. The acquisition or development of a sales and distribution infrastructure would require substantial resources, which may divert the attention of our management and key personnel, and negatively impact our product development efforts. Moreover, we may not be able to establish in-house sales and distribution capabilities or relationships with third parties. To the extent we enter into co-promotion or other licensing agreements, our product revenues are likely to be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our product candidates, and any revenue we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which may not be successful. If we cannot raise additional funding, we may be unable to complete development of our product candidates. At December 31, 2005, we had cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of $97.6 million. We currently have no commitments or arrangements for any financing. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses, debt obligations and capital requirements until at least March 31, 2007. We believe that we will require additional funding to continue our research and development programs, including preclinical testing and clinical trials of our product candidates, for operating expenses and to pursue regulatory approvals for our product candidates. We may continue to seek additional capital through public or private financing or collaborative agreements. If adequate funds are not available to us as we need them, we may be required to curtail significantly or eliminate at least temporarily one or more of our product development programs. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow, cash position and stock price. In December 2004 and January 2005, we sold $80.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2.5% subordinated convertible debentures due in January 2025. Our annual debt service obligation on these debentures is $2.0 million. The holders of the debentures may require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures on January 15, 2012, January 15, 2015 and January 15, 2020. If we issue other debt securities prior to conversion of the debentures, our debt service obligations will increase further. We intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. In the future, if the holders require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures and we are unable to generate cash or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations, we may have to delay or curtail research, development and commercialization programs. The holders’ right to require us to purchase the debentures, prior to maturity in January 2025, may be exercised in January 2012, 2015 and 2020. 28 The success of our business depends upon the members of our senior management team, our scientific staff and our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. We are dependent on the principal members of our management team and scientific staff for our business success. The loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development and business objectives. We do not carry key man life insurance on the lives of any of our key personnel. There is intense competition for human resources, including management, in the scientific fields in which we operate and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful development of our product candidates, and any expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise. In addition, there can be no assurance that such personnel or resources will be available when needed. In addition, we rely on a significant number of consultants to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy and other business activities. All of our consultants may have commitments to, or advisory or consulting agreements with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. As is commonplace in the biotechnology industry, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. Because some of our patents with respect to some of our product candidates have expired or will expire in the near term, we may be required to rely solely on the Hatch-Waxman Act for market exclusivity. A number of patents that we licensed from Wyeth have expired, including certain patents that provide protection for the use of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, the use of bicifadine for the treatment of pain and the use of ocinaplon for anxiety. Patents protecting intermediates useful in the manufacture of ocinaplon are due to expire in 2007. The numerous patent applications pending and others in preparation covering our compounds, even if filed and approved, may not afford us adequate protection against generic versions of our product candidates or other competitive products. In the event we achieve regulatory approval to market any of our product candidates, including bicifadine, DOV 216,303 or ocinaplon, and we are unable to obtain adequate patent protection for the ultimate marketed product, we will be required to rely to a greater extent on the Hatch-Waxman Act, and applicable foreign legislation, to achieve market exclusivity. The Hatch-Waxman Act generally provides for marketing exclusivity to the first applicant to gain approval for a particular drug by prohibiting filing of an abbreviated NDA, or ANDA, by a generic competitor for up to five years after the drug is first approved. The Hatch-Waxman Act, however, also accelerates the approval process for generic competitors using the same active ingredients once the period of statutory exclusivity has expired. It may also in practice encourage more aggressive legal challenges to the patents protecting approved drugs. In addition, because some of our patents have expired, third parties may develop competing product candidates using our product compounds and if they obtain regulatory approval for those products prior to us, we would be barred from seeking an ANDA for those products under the Hatch-Waxman Act for the applicable statutory exclusivity period. Our business activities require compliance with environmental laws, which if violated could result in significant fines and work stoppage. Our research and development programs, and the manufacturing operations and disposal procedures of our contractors and collaborators, are affected by federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws. Although we intend to use reasonable efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, our contractors and collaborators may not comply with these laws. Failure to comply with environmental laws could result in significant fines and work stoppage, and may harm our business. 29 We intend to pursue a rapid growth strategy, which could give rise to difficulties in managing and successfully implementing such growth. We intend to pursue a strategy of growth, both with regard to infrastructure and personnel, and will seek to aggressively develop our current product candidates and to acquire new product candidates. In the event of rapid growth in our operations, we will need to hire additional personnel, some of whom, due to the specialized scientific and technical nature of our business, must possess advanced degrees, be highly skilled and have many years of experience. We may be unable to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, or such personnel may not be available when needed, to successfully meet our growth needs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the personnel needed to achieve such growth or that we will be able to obtain and maintain all regulatory approvals or employ the best personnel to ensure compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and licensing requirements that may be necessary as a result of such growth. We currently do not have operational laboratory facilities. The absence of such facilities and technical staff requires us to rely on contract parties for all preclinical, formulations and analytical work. We have recently committed to a ten-year operating lease for 133,686 square feet facility in Somerset, New Jersey which is expected to serve as our corporate headquarters and principal place of business effective May 2006. This new facility has office and laboratory space. The use of such facilities, even if they lead to cost savings and improved control and turn-around time, is expected to require substantial management time, personnel transition and relocation costs. The facility will result in a higher level of fixed overhead. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may obligate us to make substantial payments and in some instances payments in advance of judicial resolution of entitlement. Our bylaws require that we indemnify our directors, officers and scientific advisory board members, and permit us to indemnify our other employees and agents, to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware corporate law. This could require us, with some legally prescribed exceptions, to indemnify our directors, officers and scientific advisory board members against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement in connection with an action, suit or proceeding relating to their association with us. For directors, our bylaws require us to pay in advance of final disposition all expenses including attorneys' fees incurred by them in connection with any action, suit or proceeding relating to their status or actions as directors. Advance payment of legal expenses is discretionary for officers, scientific advisory board members and other employees or agents. We may make these advance payments provided that they are preceded or accompanied by an undertaking on behalf of the indemnified party to repay all advances if it is ultimately determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by us. Accordingly, we may incur expenses to meet these indemnification obligations, including expenses that in hindsight are not qualified for reimbursement and possibly not subject to recovery as a practical matter. Provisions of Delaware law, our charter and by-laws and our stockholders rights plan may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Moreover, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in October 2002, commonly called a poison pill, empowers our board of directors to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly to thwart, any tender or takeover attempt the board of directors opposes. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. 30 Risks Related to our Industry We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, the demand for our products, if any, may be reduced. The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive and marked by a number of established, large pharmaceutical companies, as well as smaller emerging companies, whose activities are directly focused on our target markets and areas of expertise. We face and will continue to face competition in the discovery, in-licensing, development and commercialization of our product candidates, which could severely impact our ability to generate revenue or achieve significant market acceptance of our product candidates. Furthermore, new developments, including the development of other drug technologies and methods of preventing the incidence of disease, occur in the pharmaceutical industry at a rapid pace. These developments may render our product candidates or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We are focused on developing product candidates for the treatment of central nervous system and other disorders that involve alterations in neuronal processing. We have a number of competitors. If one or more of their products or programs are successful, the market for our product candidates may be reduced or eliminated. Compared to us, many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater: · capital resources and access to capital; · research and development resources, including personnel and technology; · regulatory experience; · preclinical study and clinical testing experience; and · manufacturing, distribution and marketing experience. As a result of these factors, our competitors may obtain regulatory approval of their products more rapidly than we. Our competitors may obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limit our ability to develop or commercialize our product candidates or technologies. Our competitors may also develop drugs that are more effective or useful and less costly than ours and may also be more successful than we and our collaborators or licensees in manufacturing and marketing their products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our product candidates. To a substantial degree, our success will depend on the following intellectual property achievements: · our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates, as well as our ability to preserve our trade secrets; · the ability of our collaborators and licensees to obtain patent protection for their proprietary technologies and product candidates covered by our agreements, as well as their ability to preserve related trade secrets; and · our ability to prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights, as well as the ability of our collaborators and licensees to accomplish the same. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we, either alone or together with our collaborators or licensees, intend to seek and enhance patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates. The risk exists, however, that these patents may be unobtainable and that the breadth of the claims in a patent, if obtained, may not provide adequate protection of our, or our collaborators’ or licensees’ proprietary technologies or product candidates. 31 We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, licensees, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some of, but not all, our collaborators and consultants. If our employees, collaborators or consultants breach these agreements or common law principles, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own or otherwise have certain rights to a number of patents and patent applications, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensees. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or if they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents, or the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or that challenges will result in elimination of patent claims and therefore limitations of coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents, the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that our patents do not cover its technology. In addition, interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensees. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we, or our collaborators or licensees, will be able to prevent misappropriation of our respective proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our product candidates and the technologies we use in our research may inadvertently infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, other parties conduct their research and development efforts in segments where we, or our collaborators or licensees, focus research and development activities. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our collaborators or licensees, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents may cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our collaborators or licensees could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, as a result of a patent infringement suit brought against us, or our collaborators or licensees, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to stop or be delayed, unless that party is willing to grant certain rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, or our collaborators or licensees were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential products or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. Our ability to receive royalties and profits from product sales depends in part upon the availability of approved reimbursement for the use of our products from third-party payors, for which we may or may not qualify. 32 Our royalties or profits will be heavily dependent upon the availability of reimbursement for the use of our products from third-party health care payors, both in the United States and in foreign markets. The health care industry and these third-party payors are experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing the costs of health care through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. These cost-containment efforts could adversely affect the market acceptance of our product candidates and may also harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to offset any of the payment reductions that may occur. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a product is: · safe, effective and medically necessary; · appropriate for the specific patient; · cost-effective; and · neither experimental nor investigational. Reimbursement approval is required from each third-party payor individually, and seeking this approval is a time-consuming and costly process. Third-party payors may require cost-benefit analysis data from us in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any product we might bring to market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to provide data sufficient to gain acceptance with respect to reimbursement. There also exists substantial uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of any drug product incorporating new technology. We cannot assure you that third-party reimbursement will be available for our product candidates utilizing new technology, or that any reimbursement authorization, if obtained, will be adequate. If such reimbursement approval is denied or delayed, the marketability of our product candidates could be materially impaired. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any approved products may expose us to a substantial risk of product liability claims and the adverse publicity resulting from such claims. These claims might be brought against us by study participants or once a drug has received regulatory approval and is marketed, by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we may incur substantial losses or expenses, or be required to limit the commercialization of our product candidates. We have obtained limited product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials in the amount of $10 million per occurrence and $10 million in the aggregate. Our insurance coverage, however, may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, and we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause our stock price to fall. We may not be able to utilize any of or all our net operating losses to offset future taxable income. As a company experiencing growth through the sale of equity, we may be limited under the tax code in the tax deductions we can take against income for net operating loss carryforwards if during the three years preceding such income shareholder control of our company changed to a significant degree or if our research and development expenditures were incurred by our subsidiary Nascime Limited outside the United States. 33 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 