Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. We depend on renewals of our membership-based services. We derive most of our revenues from annual memberships for our products and services. Our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing research programs and to enter into new membership arrangements. Failure to achieve high membership renewal rate levels would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our ability to secure membership renewals depends upon our ability to deliver consistent, high-quality and timely research and analysis with respect to issues, developments and trends that members view as important. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the necessary level of performance to achieve a high rate of membership renewals. Although we actively market our research programs throughout the year, historically, more than 40% of all renewals have taken place in the fourth quarter of the year. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business.” 8 We cannot know in advance whether new products will be successful. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new research programs that address specific industry and business constituencies and the changing needs of our current and prospective members for information, analysis and advice. We cannot assure you that our efforts to introduce new research programs will be successful. The process of internally researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of new research programs is time consuming, expensive and inherently risky. Delays or failures during development or implementation, or lack of market acceptance of new research programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if we were unable to develop and introduce successful new research programs or other new products, or to make enhancements to existing research programs in a timely manner in response to member requirements. See “Business—Products and Services.” We may experience difficulties in anticipating market trends. Our future success will also depend upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing market trends and to adapt our research and analysis to meet the changing information needs of our members. We may fail to continue to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. Any such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industry and business sectors that we analyze undergo frequent and often dramatic changes, including the introduction of new products and the obsolescence of old products, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants and changing objectives and expectations of users of members’ products and services. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research and analysis on issues of importance. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. We must attract and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees. Our future success also will depend upon our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts and sales and marketing staff. Our inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of research and analysis products and services. Many of these firms have substantially greater financial resources than we have to attract and compensate qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled employees in the future, or that we will be successful in training, motivating and retaining the employees we are able to hire. See “Business—Employees.” We are restricted from selling our products and services to health-care provider companies. At the time of our initial public offering, we entered into an agreement with The Advisory Board Company that restricts us from selling our membership-based products and services to companies principally engaged in the health-care provider business, although we may sell such products and services to non-health-care provider divisions or subsidiaries of health-care provider companies. The agreement continues through January 1, 2007. Continued consolidation in the financial institution industry may adversely impact our business. A number of our research programs are oriented toward companies in the financial services industry. The financial services industry is continuing to experience substantial consolidation. This consolidation has resulted, and is expected to continue to result in a reduction in the number of our financial institution members. We cannot assure you that this consolidation will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2005, less than 30% of our contract value was attributable to financial institution members, which include commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, consumer credit lenders, brokerage houses, private and trust banks and insurance companies. We may experience fluctuations in operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various factors, including the growth in and timing of new programs, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, the timing of executive education seminars, the timing of the hiring of research analysts and sales and marketing staff, changes in the spending patterns of our members, our accounts receivable collection experience, changes in market demand for research and analysis, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, competitive conditions in the industry and general economic conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 9 We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our products and services would be adversely affected. We may be exposed to litigation related to content. As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis and a user of third-party content, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence and copyright and trademark infringement. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Third-party content includes information created or provided by information services organizations and consultants whom we retain and may be delivered to clients in writing, over the Internet or orally. We may be exposed to loss of revenue resulting from our unconditional service guarantee. We generally offer an unconditional service guarantee to our members. At any time, a member may request a refund of its membership fee for a research program. Refunds are provided on a pro rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds of membership fees by a significant number of our members could lower revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Pricing.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 