ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY WE HAVE A HISTORY OF OPERATING LOSSES AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses each year and we expect that we will continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We had losses from continuing operations, net of applicable income tax benefits, of approximately $13.3 million, $24.9 million and $11.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. The principal causes of our losses are likely to continue to be: · costs resulting from the operation of our businesses; · costs relating to entering new business lines; · failure to generate sufficient revenue; and · selling, general and administrative expenses. 15 Although we have restructured our businesses, including most recently as a result of the sale of our SendTec marketing services business, we still expect to continue to incur losses as we continue to develop our VoIP telephony services business and while we explore a number of strategic alternatives for our businesses, including continuing to operate the businesses, selling certain businesses or assets, or acquiring or developing additional businesses or complementary products. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN ON A LONG-TERM BASIS. We received a report from our independent accountants, relating to our December 31, 2005 audited financial statements, containing a paragraph stating that our recurring losses from operations and our accumulated deficit subject the Company to certain liquidity and profitability considerations. Based upon the net proceeds received from the sale of our SendTec business on October 31, 2005, management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to operate as a going concern through at least the end of 2006. In order to assure its longer term financial viability, the Company must complete the development of and successfully implement its new strategic business plan. The Company’s new business plan may include making certain changes which transform its unprofitable businesses into profitable ones, selling or otherwise disposing of businesses or components, acquiring or internally developing new businesses, including Tralliance, and/or raising additional equity capital. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in taking any of the above actions which would enable it to continue as a going concern (see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further details). OUR ENTRY INTO NEW LINES OF BUSINESS, AS WELL AS POTENTIAL FUTURE ACQUISITIONS, JOINT VENTURES OR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS ENTAILS NUMEROUS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES. During our recent past, we have entered into a number of new business lines through acquisitions: computer games, VoIP telephony services, marketing services and Internet services. We may also enter into new or different lines of business, as determined by management and our Board of Directors. Our acquisitions, as well as any future acquisitions or joint ventures could result, and in some instances have resulted in numerous risks and uncertainties, including: · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, which may be issued at the time of the transaction or in the future if certain performance or other criteria are met or not met, as the case may be. These securities may be freely tradable in the public market or subject to registration rights which could require us to publicly register a large amount of our Common Stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price; · diversion of management's attention and resources from our existing businesses; · significant write-offs if we determine that the business acquisition does not fit or perform up to expectations; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or impairment charges related to goodwill and other long-lived assets; · difficulties in the assimilation of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; · regulatory and tax risks relating to the new or acquired business; · the risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · the risk that the acquired business will not perform as expected; and · material decreases in short-term or long-term liquidity. 16 THE ANTICIPATED BENEFITS OF THE SALE OF OUR SENDTEC BUSINESS MAY NOT BE REALIZED. The net cash proceeds received from the sale of our SendTec business are expected to provide sufficient liquidity to enable the Company to operate on a going concern basis through at least the end of 2006 and to complete the development of and begin the implementation of a new strategic business plan. SendTec represented the Company’s only profitable business, with our VoIP telephony services and computer games businesses continuing to incur operating losses at the present time. Our newly acquired Internet services business, Tralliance Corporation (“Tralliance”), is in the process of evolving from the start-up phase of its operations and began collecting fees for its services in October 2005. In order to capitalize on and realize the benefits of selling its SendTec business, the Company must either sell or otherwise dispose of unprofitable businesses, make changes which transform unprofitable businesses into profitable ones, and/or acquire or internally develop new profitable businesses, including Tralliance. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in taking any of the above actions which would enable it to achieve satisfactory investment returns in future periods and realize the benefits of selling its SendTec business. OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE LIMITED. As of December 31, 2005, we had net operating loss carryforwards potentially available for U.S. tax purposes of approximately $147.2 million. These carryforwards expire through 2025. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of an "ownership change" of a corporation. Due to various significant changes in our ownership interests, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, commencing in August 1997 through our most recent issuance of convertible notes in July 2005, and assuming conversion of such notes, we may have substantially limited or eliminated the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. Our 2005 total consolidated tax provision reflects the usage of all current year net operating losses and a portion of prior years net operating loss carryforwards to offset 2005 taxable income related to the gain on the sale of our SendTec business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize any net operating loss carryforwards in the future beyond the net operating losses recognized in calculating our 2005 tax provision. WE DEPEND ON THE CONTINUED GROWTH IN THE USE AND COMMERCIAL VIABILITY OF THE INTERNET. Our VoIP telephony services business, Internet services business and computer games businesses are substantially dependent upon the continued growth in the general use of the Internet. Internet and electronic commerce growth may be inhibited for a number of reasons, including: · inadequate network infrastructure; · security and authentication concerns; · inadequate quality and availability of cost-effective, high-speed service; · general economic and business downturns; and · catastrophic events, including war and terrorism. As web usage grows, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth or its performance and reliability may decline. Websites have experienced interruptions in their service as a result of outages and other delays occurring throughout the Internet network infrastructure. If these outages or delays frequently occur in the future, web usage, as well as usage of our services, could grow more slowly or decline. Also, the Internet's commercial viability may be significantly hampered due to: · delays in the development or adoption of new operating and technical standards and performance improvements required to handle increased levels of activity; · increased government regulation; · potential governmental taxation of such services; and · insufficient availability of telecommunications services which could result in slower response times and adversely affect usage of the Internet. 17 WE MAY FACE INCREASED GOVERNMENT REGULATION, TAXATION AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES IN OUR INDUSTRY, BOTH DOMESTICALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND/OR OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. There are an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet and telecommunications. In addition, a number of federal, state, local and foreign legislative and regulatory proposals are under consideration. Laws and regulations have been and will likely continue to be adopted with respect to the Internet relating to, among other things, fees and taxation of VoIP telephony services, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, public safety issues like enhanced 911 emergency service ("E911"), the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access, and the characteristics and quality of products and services. Changes in tax laws relating to electronic commerce could materially affect our business, prospects and financial condition. One or more states or foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on out-of-jurisdiction companies that engage in electronic commerce. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional telephony, and otherwise harm our business. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to electronic commerce. However, a number of states, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes on electronic commerce. If any of these initiatives addressed the Supreme Court's constitutional concerns and resulted in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect sales and use taxes. The imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon electronic commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could adversely affect our VoIP business operations, and ultimately our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. Regardless of the type of state tax imposed, the threshold issue involving state taxation of any transaction is always whether sufficient nexus, or contact, exists between the taxing entity and the taxpayer or the transaction to which the tax is being applied. The concept of nexus is constantly changing and no bright line exists that would sufficiently alert a business as to whether it is subject to tax in a specific jurisdiction. All states which have attempted to tax Internet access or online services have done so by asserting that the sale of such telecommunications services, information services, data processing services or other type of transaction is subject to tax in that particular state. A handful of states impose taxes on computer services, data processing services, information services and other similar types of services. Some of these states have asserted that Internet access and/or online information services are subject to these taxes. Most states have telecommunications sales or gross receipts taxes imposed on interstate calls or transmissions of data. A sizable minority tax only intrastate calls. Although these taxes were enacted long before the birth of electronic commerce and VoIP, several states have asserted that Internet access and/or online information services are subject to these taxes. For example, in the 2005 Florida legislative session, Florida incorporated into the tax imposed by Chapter 202, Florida Statutes, (the Communications Services Tax) language which establishes tax nexus in Florida for VoIP. The Florida legislature inserted this language to protect the scope of the tax base for the Communications Services Tax. The language could have the effect of imposing the Communications Services Tax on VoIP services not based in the state of Florida. The Florida legislature borrowed the language that it used to amend the Florida Statute from the national Streamlined Sales Tax Project. This project is being touted by many states as a proposed tax simplification plan. If adopted by other states, the language included in the Florida law could have a far reaching effect in many states in the United States. 18 Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel, and personal privacy apply to the Internet and electronic commerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet or VoIP telephony services, may impose additional burdens on electronic commerce or may alter how we do business. This could decrease the demand for our existing or proposed services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, plans, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. WE RELY ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. We regard substantial elements of our websites and underlying technology, as well as certain assets relating to our VoIP business and other opportunities we are investigating, as proprietary and attempt to protect them by relying on intellectual property laws and restrictions on disclosure. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants. In connection with our license agreements with third parties, we generally seek to control access to and distribution of our technology and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar technology independently. Thus, we cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation or infringement of our proprietary information, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around our intellectual property rights. We pursue the registration of our trademarks in the United States and, in some cases, internationally. We have been awarded and are also seeking additional patent protection for certain VoIP assets which we acquired or which we have developed. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our services are distributed or made available through the Internet. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet related businesses are also uncertain and still evolving. We cannot assure you about the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. However, we may not have sufficient funds or personnel to adequately litigate or otherwise protect our rights. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our business activities and product offerings will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us, including claims related to providing hyperlinks to websites operated by third parties or providing advertising on a keyword basis that links a specific search term entered by a user to the appearance of a particular advertisement. Moreover, from time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert claims of alleged infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. Sprint recently filed one such lawsuit which remains pending against us and our tglo.com, inc. subsidiary (formerly known as voiceglo Holdings, Inc.) alleging infringement by us. Any litigation claims or counterclaims could impair our business because they could: · be time-consuming; · result in significant costs; · subject us to significant liability for damages; · result in invalidation of our proprietary rights; · divert management's attention; · cause product release delays; or · require us to redesign our products or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements that may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 19 We license from third parties various technologies incorporated into our products, networks and sites. We cannot assure you that these third-party technology licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, we cannot assure you that the third parties from which we license our technology will be able to defend our proprietary rights successfully against claims of infringement. As a result, our inability to obtain any of these technology licenses could result in delays or reductions in the introduction of new products and services or could adversely affect the performance of our existing products and services until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies could establish and have established additional top-level domains, could appoint additional domain name registrars or could modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our names or our “.travel” domain registry business. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed, or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. The relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may not be able to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. WE MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL IN ESTABLISHING AND MAINTAINING BRAND AWARENESS; BRAND IDENTITY IS CRITICAL TO OUR COMPANY. Our success in the markets in which we operate will depend on our ability to create and maintain brand awareness for our product offerings. This has in some cases required, and may continue to require, a significant amount of capital to allow us to market our products and establish brand recognition and customer loyalty. Many of our competitors are larger than us and have substantially greater financial resources. Additionally, many of the companies offering VoIP services have already established their brand identity within the marketplace. We can offer no assurances that we will be successful in establishing awareness of our brand allowing us to compete in the VoIP market. If we fail to promote and maintain our various brands or our businesses' brand values are diluted, our businesses, operating results, financial condition, and our ability to attract buyers for any of our businesses could be materially adversely affected. The importance of brand recognition will continue to increase because low barriers of entry to the industries in which we operate may result in an increased number of direct competitors. To promote our brands, we may be required to continue to increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand awareness. We may not generate a corresponding increase in revenue to justify these costs. OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS FLUCTUATE. Due to our significant change in operations, including the entry into new lines of business and disposition of other lines of business, our historical quarterly operating results are not necessarily reflective of future results. The factors that will cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in the future include: · acquisitions of new businesses or sales of our businesses or assets; · changes in the number of sales or technical employees; · the level of traffic on our websites; · the overall demand for Internet telephony services, print and Internet advertising and electronic commerce; · the addition or loss of VoIP customers, advertisers of our computer games businesses, subscribers to our magazine, and electronic commerce partners on our websites; · overall usage and acceptance of the Internet; · seasonal trends in advertising and electronic commerce sales and member usage in our businesses; · costs relating to the implementation or cessation of marketing plans for our various lines of business; · other costs relating to the maintenance of our operations; · the restructuring of our business; · failure to generate significant revenues and profit margins from new products and services; and · competition from others providing services similar to ours. 20 OUR LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY MAKES FINANCIAL FORECASTING DIFFICULT. OUR INEXPERIENCE IN THE VOIP TELEPHONY BUSINESS AND INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS WILL MAKE FINANCIAL FORECASTING EVEN MORE DIFFICULT. We have a limited operating history for you to use in evaluating our prospects and us, particularly as it pertains to our VoIP and domain name registry businesses. Our prospects should be considered in light of the risks encountered by companies operating in new and rapidly evolving markets like ours. We may not successfully address these risks. For example, we may not be able to: · maintain or increase levels of user traffic on our e-commerce websites; · attract customers to our VoIP telephony service; · generate and maintain adequate levels of “.travel” domain name registrations; · adequately forecast anticipated customer purchase and usage of our retail VoIP products; · maintain or increase advertising revenue for our magazine; · adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments; and · identify, attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. OUR MANAGEMENT TEAM IS INEXPERIENCED IN THE MANAGEMENT OF A LARGE OPERATING COMPANY. Only our Chairman has had experience managing a large operating company. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that: · our key employees will be able to work together effectively as a team; · we will be able to retain the remaining members of our management team; · we will be able to hire, train and manage our employee base; · our systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations; and · our management will be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully exploit the market opportunity for our products and services. WE DEPEND ON HIGHLY QUALIFIED TECHNICAL AND MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical expertise and managerial personnel necessary to operate our businesses. We may need to give retention bonuses and stock incentives to certain employees to keep them, which can be costly to us. The loss of the services of members of our management team or other key personnel could harm our business. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of key management, client service, product development, sales and technical personnel. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers and do not intend to purchase any in the future. Although we generally enter into non-competition agreements with our key employees, our business could be harmed if one or more of our officers or key employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete with us. We may be unable to attract, assimilate or retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the future. Wages for managerial and technical employees are increasing and are expected to continue to increase in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and could continue to experience in the future if we need to hire any additional personnel, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. If we were unable to attract and retain the technical and managerial personnel necessary to support and grow our businesses, our businesses would likely be materially and adversely affected. 21 OUR OFFICERS, INCLUDING OUR CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT HAVE OTHER INTERESTS AND TIME COMMITMENTS; WE HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH SOME OF OUR DIRECTORS; ALL OF OUR DIRECTORS ARE EMPLOYEES OR STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY OR AFFILIATES OF OUR LARGEST STOCKHOLDER. Because our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Egan, is an officer or director of other companies, we have to compete for his time. Mr. Egan became our Chief Executive Officer effective June 1, 2002. Mr. Egan is also the controlling investor of Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., an entity controlled by Mr. Egan, which is our largest stockholder. Mr. Egan has not committed to devote any specific percentage of his business time with us. Accordingly, we compete with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. and Mr. Egan's other related entities for his time. Our President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and Director, Mr. Edward A. Cespedes, is also an officer or director of other companies. Accordingly, we must compete for his time. Mr. Cespedes is an officer or director of various privately held entities and is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. Our Vice President of Finance and Director, Ms. Robin Lebowitz is also affiliated with Dancing Bear Investments, Inc. She is also an officer or director of other companies or entities controlled by Mr. Egan and Mr. Cespedes. Due to the relationships with his related entities, Mr. Egan will have an inherent conflict of interest in making any decision related to transactions between the related entities and us, including investment in our securities. Furthermore, the Company's Board of Directors presently is comprised entirely of individuals which are employees of theglobe, and therefore are not "independent." We intend to review related party transactions in the future on a case-by-case basis. WE RELY ON THIRD PARTY OUTSOURCED HOSTING FACILITIES OVER WHICH WE HAVE LIMITED CONTROL. Our principal servers are located in areas throughout the eastern region of the United States primarily at third party outsourced hosting facilities. Our operations depend on the ability to protect our systems against damage from unexpected events, including fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failures and vandalism. Any disruption in our Internet access could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems could also materially adversely affect our businesses. Our reputation, theglobe.com brand and the brands of our individual businesses could be materially and adversely affected by any problems experienced by our websites, databases or our supporting information technology networks. We may not have insurance to adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. We do not presently have any secondary off-site systems or a formal disaster recovery plan. HACKERS MAY ATTEMPT TO PENETRATE OUR SECURITY SYSTEM; ONLINE SECURITY BREACHES COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Consumer and supplier confidence in our businesses depends on maintaining relevant security features. Substantial or ongoing security breaches on our systems or other Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. We incur substantial expenses protecting against and remedying security breaches. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation. Experienced programmers or "hackers" have successfully penetrated our systems and we expect that these attempts will continue to occur from time to time. Because a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security could misappropriate proprietary or confidential information (including customer billing information) or cause interruptions in our products and services, we may have to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or to alleviate problems caused by these hackers. Additionally, we may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. Such security breaches could materially adversely affect our company. In addition, the transmission of computer viruses resulting from hackers or otherwise could expose us to significant liability. Our insurance may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties with whom we have relationships. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LIABILITY FOR INFORMATION RETRIEVED FROM OR TRANSMITTED OVER THE INTERNET. Users may access content on our websites or the websites of our distribution partners or other third parties through website links or other means, and they may download content and subsequently transmit this content to others over the Internet. This could result in claims against us based on a variety of theories, including defamation, obscenity, negligence, copyright infringement, trademark infringement or the wrongful actions of third parties. Other theories may be brought based on the nature, publication and distribution of our content or based on errors or false or misleading information provided on our websites. Claims have been brought against online services in the past and we have received inquiries from third parties regarding these matters. Such claims could be material in the future. 22 WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES SOLD OVER THE INTERNET, INCLUDING PRODUCTS AND SERVICES SOLD BY OTHERS. We enter into agreements with commerce partners and sponsors under which, in some cases, we are entitled to receive a share of revenue from the purchase of goods and services through direct links from our sites. We sell products directly to consumers which may expose us to additional legal risks, regulations by local, state, federal and foreign authorities and potential liabilities to consumers of these products and services, even if we do not ourselves provide these products or services. We cannot assure you that any indemnification that may be provided to us in some of these agreements with these parties will be adequate. Even if these claims do not result in our liability, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims. The imposition of potential liability for information carried on or disseminated through our systems could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to liability. Those measures may require the expenditure of substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our services. Additionally, our insurance policies may not cover all potential liabilities to which we are exposed. WE ARE A PARTY TO LITIGATION MATTERS THAT MAY SUBJECT US TO SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY AND BE TIME CONSUMING AND EXPENSIVE. We are currently a party to litigation. At this time we cannot reasonably estimate the range of any loss or damages resulting from any of the pending lawsuits due to uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome. The defense of any litigation may be expensive and divert management's attention from day-to-day operations. An adverse outcome in any litigation could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and may utilize a significant portion of our cash resources. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO IMPLEMENT SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT ON A TIMELY BASIS. The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as directed by Section 404 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules generally requiring each public company to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the company's independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. This requirement will first apply to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We are currently at the beginning stages of developing our Section 404 implementation plan. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that need improvement. How companies should be implementing these new requirements including internal control reforms to comply with Section 404's requirements, and how independent auditors will apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls, is still reasonably uncertain. We expect that we will need to hire and/or engage additional personnel and incur incremental costs in order to complete the work required by Section 404. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete our Section 404 plan on a timely basis. The Company's liquidity position in 2006 and 2007 may also impact our ability to adequately fund our Section 404 efforts. Even if we timely complete our Section 404 plan, we may not be able to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or in the event that we conclude that our internal controls are effective, our independent accountants may disagree with our assessment and may issue a report that is qualified. This could subject the Company to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm the Company's operating results or cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations. 23 RISKS RELATING TO OUR VOIP TELEPHONY BUSINESS WE ARE UNABLE TO PREDICT THE VOLUME OF USAGE AND OUR CAPACITY NEEDS FOR OUR VOIP BUSINESS; DISADVANTAGEOUS CONTRACTS HAVE REDUCED OUR OPERATING MARGINS AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. We have entered into a number of agreements (generally for initial terms of one year, with the terms of several agreements extending beyond one year) for leased communications transmission capacity and data center facilities with various carriers and other third parties. The minimum amounts payable under these agreements and the underlying current capacity of our VoIP network greatly exceeds our current estimates of customer demand and usage for the foreseeable future. We are currently seeking to reduce the amounts payable under these network-related agreements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately reduce our network-related contractual commitments and achieve the desired level of network-related cost savings. If we are not successful in significantly reducing such commitments, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. THE VOIP MARKET IS SUBJECT TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE AND WE WILL NEED TO DEPEND ON NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTIONS AND INNOVATIONS IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH, MAINTAIN AND GROW OUR BUSINESS. VoIP is an emerging market that is characterized by rapid changes in customer requirements, frequent introductions of new and enhanced products, and continuing and rapid technological advances. To enter and compete successfully in this emerging market, we must continually design, develop and sell new and enhanced VoIP products and services that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability at lower costs. These new and enhanced products must take advantage of technological advancements and changes, and respond to new customer requirements. Our success in designing, developing and selling such products and services will depend on a variety of factors, including: · access to sufficient capital to complete our development efforts; · the identification of market demand for new products; · the determination of appropriate product inventory levels; · product and feature selection; · timely implementation of product design and development; · product performance; · cost-effectiveness of products under development; · securing effective sources of equipment supply; and · success of promotional efforts and our efforts to create brand recognition. Additionally, we may also be required to collaborate with third parties to develop our products and may not be able to do so on a timely and cost-effective basis, if at all. If we are unable, due to resource constraints or technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely manner or if such new or enhanced products do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our operating results will suffer and our business will not grow. OUR ABILITY AND PLANS TO PROVIDE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES AT ATTRACTIVE RATES ARISE IN LARGE PART FROM THE FACT THAT VOIP SERVICES ARE NOT CURRENTLY SUBJECT TO THE SAME REGULATION OR TAXATION AS TRADITIONAL TELEPHONY. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC") has so far declined to make a general conclusion that all forms of VoIP services constitute telecommunications services (rather than information services). Because their services are not currently regulated to the same extent as telecommunications services, some VoIP providers, such as the Company, can currently avoid paying certain charges and incurring certain costs and expenses that traditional telephone companies must pay and incur. Many traditional telephone operators are lobbying the FCC and the states to regulate VoIP on the same or similar basis as traditional telephone services. The FCC and several states are examining this issue. 24 On March 10, 2004, the FCC released its IP-Enabled Services Notice of Proposed Rulemaking which included guidelines and questions upon which it is seeking public comment to determine what regulation, if any, will govern companies that provide VoIP services. Specifically, the FCC has expressed an intention to further examine the question of whether certain forms of phone-to-phone VoIP services are information services or telecommunications services. The two classifications are treated differently in several respects, with certain information services being regulated to a lesser degree than telecommunications services. The FCC has noted that certain forms of phone-to-phone VoIP services bear many of the same characteristics as more traditional voice telecommunications services and lack the characteristics that would render them information services. In addition to regulation by the FCC, we currently face potential regulation by state governments and their respective agencies. Although VoIP services are presently largely unregulated by the state governments, such state governments and their regulatory authorities may assert jurisdiction over the provision of intrastate IP communications services where they believe that their telecommunications regulations are broad enough to cover regulation of IP services. A number of state regulators have recently taken the position that VoIP providers are telecommunications providers and must register as such within their states. VoIP operators have resisted such registration on the position that VoIP is not, and should not be, subject to such regulations because VoIP is an information service, not a telecommunications service and because VoIP is interstate in nature, not intrastate. Various state regulatory authorities have initiated proceedings to examine the regulatory status of Internet telephony services and, in several cases, rulings have been obtained to the effect that the use of the Internet to provide certain interstate services does not exempt an entity from paying intrastate access charges in the jurisdictions in question. The FCC has stated in at least one case that multiple state regulatory regimes could violate the Commerce Clause because of the unavoidable effect that regulation on an intrastate component would have on interstate use of the service. However, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of this ruling or whether the facts of that case are so unique as to be inapplicable to our VoIP operations. As state governments, courts, and regulatory authorities continue to examine the regulatory status of Internet telephony services, they could render decisions or adopt regulations affecting providers of VoIP or requiring such providers to pay intrastate access charges or to make contributions to universal service funding. Should the FCC determine to regulate IP services, states may decide to follow the FCC's lead and impose additional obligations as well. If providers of VoIP services, such as the Company, become subject to additional regulation by the FCC or any state regulatory agencies, the cost of complying with such additional regulation would likely increase the costs of providing such services. In addition, the FCC or any such state agencies may impose new surcharges, taxes, fees and/or other charges upon providers or users of VoIP services. Such charges could include, among others, access charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic, contributions to the Universal Service Fund or other charges. Such new charges would likely increase our cost of VoIP operations and, to the extent that any or all of them are passed along to our VoIP customers, they could adversely affect our revenues from our VoIP services. Accordingly, more aggressive state and/or federal regulation of Internet telephony providers and VoIP services may adversely affect our VoIP business operations, and ultimately our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. RECENT REGULATORY ENACTMENTS BY THE FCC REQUIRE US TO PROVIDE ENHANCED EMERGENCY 911 DIALING CAPABILITIES TO OUR SUBSCRIBERS AS PART OF OUR INTERCONNECTED VOIP SERVICES AND TO COMPLY WITH THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1994. THESE REQUIREMENTS WILL RESULT IN INCREASED COSTS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR DELIVERY OF OUR INTERCONNECTED VOIP SERVICES, INCLUDING A POSSIBLE REQUIRED DISCONTINUATION OF SUCH SERVICES WITH RESPECT TO A POTENTIALLY MATERIAL PORTION OF OUR INTERCONNECTED VOIP SUBSCRIBERS. On June 3, 2005, the FCC released the "IP-Enabled Services and E911 Requirements for IP-Enabled Service Providers, First Report and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking" (the "E911 Order"). The E911 Order requires, among other things, that providers of "Interconnected VoIP Service" ("Interconnected VoIP Providers") supply enhanced emergency 911 dialing capabilities ("E911") to their subscribers no later than 120 days from the effective date of the E911 Order. The effective date of the E911 Order is July 29, 2005. Additionally, the E911 Order requires each Interconnected VoIP Provider to file with the FCC a compliance letter on or before November 28, 2005 detailing its compliance with the above E911 requirements. For purposes of the E911 Order, "Interconnected VoIP Service" is defined as a VoIP service that: (1) enables real-time, two-way voice communications; (2) requires a broadband connection from the user’s location; (3) requires Internet protocol-compatible customer premises equipment; and (4) permits users generally to receive calls that originate on the public switched telephone network and to terminate calls to the public switched telephone network. 25 As part of the E911 capabilities required to be provided pursuant to the E911 Order, Interconnected VoIP Providers are required to mimic the E911 emergency calling capabilities offered by traditional landline phone companies. Specifically, all Interconnected VoIP Providers must deliver 911 calls to the appropriate local public safety answering point ("PSAP"), along with call back number and location information with respect to the user making the 911 call. Such E911 capabilities must be included in the basic service offering of the Interconnected VoIP Providers; it cannot be an optional or extra feature. The PSAP delivery obligation, including call back number and location information, must be provided regardless of whether the service is "fixed," such as where the service is being provided to a fixed location via wireline technology, or "nomadic," such as where the service is being provided to a mobile location via wireless technology. In some cases, the requirement to provide location information to the appropriate PSAP relies on the user to self-report his or her location. The E911 Order, however, provides that the FCC intends, through a future order, to adopt an advanced E911 solution for interconnected VoIP services that must include a method for determining a user’s location without assistance from the user as well as firm implementation deadlines for that solution. Additionally, the E911 Order required that, by July 29, 2005 (the effective date of the E911 Order), each Interconnected VoIP Provider must have: (1) specifically advised every new and existing subscriber, prominently and in plain language, of the circumstances under which the E911 capabilities service may not be available through its VoIP services or may in some way be limited by comparison to traditional landline E911 services; (2) obtained and kept a record of affirmative acknowledgement from all subscribers, both new and existing, of having received and understood the advisory described in the preceding item (1); and (3) distributed to its existing subscribers warning stickers or other appropriate labels warning subscribers if E911 service may be limited or not available and instructing the subscriber to place them on or near the equipment used in conjunction with the provider's VoIP services. We complied with the requirements set forth in the preceding items (1) and (3). However, despite engaging in significant efforts, as of August 10, 2005, we had received the affirmative acknowledgements required by the preceding item (2) from less than 15% of our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers. On July 26, 2005, noting the efforts made by Interconnected VoIP Providers to comply with the E911 Order's affirmative acknowledgement requirement, the Enforcement Bureau of the FCC (the "EB") released a Public Notice communicating that, until August 30, 2005, it would not initiate enforcement action against any Interconnected VoIP Provider with respect to such affirmative acknowledgement requirement on the condition that the provider file a detailed report with the FCC by August 10, 2005. The Public Notice provided that the report must set forth certain specific information relating to the provider's efforts to comply with the requirements of the E911 Order. Furthermore, the EB stated its expectation that that if an Interconnected VoIP Provider had not received such affirmative acknowledgements from 100% of its existing subscribers by August 29, 2005, then the Interconnected VoIP Provider would disconnect, no later than August 30, 2005, all subscribers from whom it has not received such acknowledgements. On August 26, 2005, the EB released another Public Notice communicating that it would not, until September 28, 2005, initiate enforcement action regarding the affirmative acknowledgement requirement against any provider that: (1) previously filed the compliance report required by the July 26 Public Notice on or before August 10, 2005; and (2) filed two separate updated reports with the FCC by September 1, 2005 and September 22, 2005 containing certain additional required information relating to such provider's compliance efforts with respect to the E911 Order's requirements. The EB further stated in the second Public Notice its expectation that, during the additional period of time afforded by the extension, all Interconnected VoIP Providers that qualified for such extension would continue to use all means available to them to obtain affirmative acknowledgements from all of their subscribers. On September 27, 2005, the EB released a third Public Notice communicating that it would not seek enforcement action regarding the affirmative acknowledgement requirement against any provider that had received acknowledgements from at least 90% of their applicable VoIP subscribers. Furthermore, the EB communicated in the third Public Notice that, with respect to any providers that had not received acknowledgements from at least 90% of their applicable VoIP subscribers, the EB would not initiate enforcement action regarding the affirmative acknowledgement requirement until October 31, 2005, provided that such providers filed a status report regarding their respective compliance efforts by October 25, 2005. 26 Although we have engaged in efforts to comply with all of the requirements of the E911 Order, as of November 28, 2005 and as of December 31, 2005, we were not able to provide the E911 capabilities required by the E911 Order our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers. Moreover, we did not file the compliance letter with respect to our compliance efforts on November 28, 2005 as required by the E911 Order. The Company did comply with the reporting requirements of the EB's Public Notices issued on July 26, 2005, August 26, 2005 and September 27, 2005. Accordingly, the Company qualified for the September 28, 2005 and October 31, 2005 extensions with respect to the E911 Order's requirement to obtain the required acknowledgements from our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers. However, the FCC issued no additional extensions to the October 31, 2005 deadline for this requirement. As of October 31, 2005 and as of December 31, 2005, we had received the required affirmative acknowledgements from less than 15% of our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers. While we continue to be engaged in efforts to provide the E911 capabilities required by the E911 Order to as many of our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers as possible and to obtain the required acknowledgements from those of our subscribers to whom we are not delivering such capabilities, we are currently not in compliance with the E911 Order. Moreover, we can provide no assurances as to whether the percentage of our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers with respect to which we have complied with all of the E911 Order's requirements will increase significantly or at all. Accordingly, although the EB has not, as of March 28, 2006, initiated an enforcement action against the Company with respect to such non-compliance, the EB may decide to do so at any time. We are currently evaluating whether to suspend delivery of our Interconnected VoIP Service to those of our subscribers with respect to which we have not complied with the requirements of the E911 Order. If we decide to suspend delivery of our Interconnected VoIP Service to such subscribers for an extended period of time due to our non-compliance with the E911 Order, or if we are required to do so by the EB, our future revenues from our VoIP operations may be negatively impacted. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, our aggregate net revenues for VoIP services, including, without limitation, revenue for Interconnected VoIP Services, totaled approximately $249,000, or 10%, of the Company's aggregate net revenue from continuing operations. Even assuming our full compliance with the E911 Order, such compliance and our efforts to achieve such compliance, will increase our cost of doing business in the VoIP arena and may adversely affect our ability to deliver our Interconnected VoIP Service to new and existing customers in all geographic regions. In addition to the E911 Order, on September 23, 2005, the FCC released a First Report and Order and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (the "CALEA Order") in which it concluded that providers of "Interconnected VoIP Service" constitute telecommunications carriers for purposes of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act of 1994 ("CALEA") even when those providers are not telecommunications carriers under the Communications Act of 1934. CALEA requires telecommunications carriers to assist law enforcement officials in executing electronic surveillance pursuant to court order or other lawful authorization and requires carriers to design or modify their systems to ensure that lawfully-authorized electronic surveillance can be performed. For purposes of the CALEA Order, the term "Interconnected VoIP Service" is defined in the same way as it is defined in the E911 Order. Accordingly, Interconnected VoIP Providers, such as the Company, are now required to comply with all of the requirements of CALEA no later than 18 months from the effective date of the CALEA Order. The FCC notes in the CALEA Order that it will release another order that will address separate questions regarding the assistance capabilities required of the Interconnected VoIP Providers. The CALEA Order provides that such subsequent order will address, among other matters, issues such as compliance extensions and exemptions, cost recovery, identification of future services and entities subject to CALEA, and enforcement. The Company is currently evaluating how and to what extent it will need to modify its technology infrastructure and systems in order to timely comply with the requirements of the CALEA Order. However, any such compliance efforts are likely to increase our costs of providing our Interconnected VoIP Services and adversely affect our results of operations from such services. In light of the increasing regulatory burdens attendant to operating in the VoIP arena, we are currently evaluating the migration of most, if not all, of our Interconnected VoIP Service subscribers to our outbound only calling product. As this service allows outbound dialing only, it does not constitute an "Interconnected VoIP Service" as defined in the E911 Order or in the CALEA Order. Accordingly, it is not subject to either of such order's respective requirements. However, even assuming that we can timely and effectively realize this migration, we cannot predict whether in the future the FCC or any state or other regulatory agencies will expand their regulations, or implement new ones, so as to include VoIP services other than Interconnected VoIP Services within the scope of such regulations. 27 OUR ABILITY TO OFFER VOIP SERVICES OUTSIDE THE U.S. IS ALSO SUBJECT TO THE LOCAL REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT, WHICH MAY BE COMPLICATED AND OFTEN UNCERTAIN. Although the use of private IP networks to provide voice services over the Internet is currently permitted by United States federal law and largely unregulated within the United States, several foreign governments have adopted laws and/or regulations that could restrict or prohibit the provision of voice communications services over the Internet or private IP networks. The regulatory treatment of IP communications outside the United States varies significantly from country to country. Some countries currently impose little or no regulation on Internet telephony services, as in the United States. Other countries, including those in which the governments prohibit or limit competition for traditional voice telephony services, generally do not permit Internet telephony services or strictly limit the terms under which those services may be provided. Still other countries regulate Internet telephony services like traditional voice telephony services, requiring Internet telephony companies to make various telecommunications service contributions and pay other taxes. Internationally, the European Union has also enacted several directives relating to the Internet. The European Union has, for example, adopted a directive that imposes restrictions on the collection and use of personal data. Under the directive, citizens of the European Union are guaranteed rights to access their data, rights to know where the data originated, rights to have inaccurate data rectified, rights to recourse in the event of unlawful processing and rights to withhold permission to use their data for direct marketing. The directive could, among other things, affect U.S. companies that collect or transmit information over the Internet from individuals in European Union member states, and will impose restrictions that are more stringent than current Internet privacy standards in the U.S. In particular, companies with offices located in European Union countries will not be allowed to send personal information to countries that do not maintain adequate standards of privacy. Compliance with these laws is both necessary and difficult. Failure to comply could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity, and other losses that could harm our business. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to address these privacy and data protection and retention issues could directly affect the way we do business or could create uncertainty on the Internet. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increased service or delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. Other laws that reference the Internet, such as the European Union's Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce has begun to be interpreted by the courts and implemented by the European Union member states, but their applicability and scope remain somewhat uncertain. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either with respect to our services in general, or with respect to certain categories or items of our services. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate VoIP telephony services to users worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. For example, the Australian high court has ruled that a U.S. website in certain circumstances must comply with Australian laws regarding libel. As we expand our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. Laws regulating Internet companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, and users. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings relative to those in the U.S. Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to bans on our services. NEW LAWS AND REGULATIONS AFFECTING THE INTERNET GENERALLY MAY INCREASE OUR COSTS OF COMPLIANCE AND DOING BUSINESS, DECREASE THE GROWTH IN INTERNET USE, DECREASE THE DEMAND FOR OUR SERVICES OR OTHERWISE HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS. Today, there are still relatively few laws specifically directed towards online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, many laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at all levels of governments around the world and it is possible that such laws and regulations will be adopted. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses. The vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. In the United States, Congress has recently adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the Internet, including online content, user privacy and taxation. In addition, Congress and other federal entities are considering other legislative and regulatory proposals that would further regulate the Internet. Congress has, for example, considered legislation on a wide range of issues including Internet spamming, database privacy, gambling, pornography and child protection, Internet fraud, privacy and digital signatures. For example, Congress recently passed and the President signed into law several proposals that have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. For example, in December 2004, the U.S. federal government enacted the Internet Tax Nondiscrimination Act (the "ITNA"). While the ITNA generally extends through November 2007 the moratorium on taxes on Internet access and multiple and discriminatory taxes on electronic commerce, it does not affect the imposition of tax on a charge for voice or similar service utilizing Internet Protocol or any successor protocol. In addition, the ITNA does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. 28 Various states have adopted and are considering Internet-related legislation. Increased U.S. regulation of the Internet, including Internet tracking technologies, may slow its growth, particularly if other governments follow suit, which may negatively impact the cost of doing business over the Internet and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. Legislation has also been proposed that would clarify the regulatory status of VoIP service. The Company has no way of knowing whether legislation will pass or what form it might take. Domain names have been the subject of significant trademark litigation in the United States and internationally. The current system for registering, allocating and managing domain names has been the subject of litigation and may be altered in the future. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries may change. Regulatory bodies are anticipated to establish additional top-level domains and may appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names, any or all of which may dilute the strength of our names. We may not acquire or maintain our domain names in all of the countries in which our websites may be accessed, or for any or all of the top-level domain names that may be introduced. THE INTERNET TELEPHONY BUSINESS IS HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND ALSO COMPETES WITH TRADITIONAL AND CELLULAR TELEPHONY PROVIDERS. The long distance telephony market and the Internet telephony market are highly competitive. There are several large and numerous small competitors and we expect to face continuing competition based on price and service offerings from existing competitors and new market entrants in the future. The principal competitive factors in our market include price, quality of service, breadth of geographic presence, customer service, reliability, network size and capacity, and the availability of enhanced communications services. Our competitors include major and emerging telecommunications carriers in the U.S. and abroad. Financial difficulties in the past several years of many telecommunications providers are rapidly altering the number, identity and competitiveness of the marketplace. Many of the competitors for our current and planned VoIP service offerings have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we have. As a result, certain of these competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies which could hinder our ability to market our voice services. During the past several years, a number of companies have introduced services that make Internet telephony or voice services over the Internet available to businesses and consumers. All major telecommunications companies, including entities like AT&T, Verizon and Sprint, either presently or potentially compete or can compete directly with us. Other Internet telephony service providers, such as Skype, Net2Phone, Vonage, Go2Call and deltathree, also focus on a retail customer base and compete with us. These companies may offer the kinds of voice services we currently offer or intend to offer in the future. In addition, companies currently in related markets have begun to provide voice over the Internet services or adapt their products to enable voice over the Internet services. These related companies may potentially migrate into the Internet telephony market as direct competitors. A number of cable operators have also begun to offer VoIP telephony services via cable modems which provide access to the Internet. These companies, which tend to be large entities with substantial resources, generally have large budgets available for research and development, and therefore may further enhance the quality and acceptance of the transmission of voice over the Internet. AOL, Google and Yahoo! also now offer new services that have features similar to some of our products and services. We also compete with cellular telephony providers. PRICING PRESSURES AND INCREASING USE OF VOIP TECHNOLOGY MAY LESSEN OUR COMPETITIVE PRICING ADVANTAGE. One of the main competitive advantages of our current and planned VoIP service offerings is the ability to provide discounted local and long distance telephony services by taking advantage of cost savings achieved by carrying voice traffic employing VoIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. In recent years, the price of telephone service has fallen. The price of telephone service may continue to fall for various reasons, including the adoption of VoIP technology by other communications carriers. Many carriers have adopted pricing plans such that the rates that they charge are not always substantially higher than the rates that VoIP providers charge for similar service. In addition, other providers of long distance services are offering unlimited or nearly unlimited use of some of their services for increasingly lower monthly rates. 29 IF WE DO NOT DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIPS FOR VOIP PRODUCTS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY MARKET ANY OF OUR VOIP PRODUCTS. Our success in the VoIP market is partly dependent on our ability to forge marketing, engineering and carrier partnerships. VoIP communication systems are extremely complex and no single company possesses all the technology components needed to build a complete end-to-end solution. We will likely need to enter into partnerships to augment our development programs and to assist us in marketing complete solutions to our targeted customers. We may not be able to develop such partnerships in the course of our operations and product development. Even if we do establish the necessary partnerships, we may not be able to adequately capitalize on these partnerships to aid in the success of our business. THE FAILURE OF VOIP NETWORKS TO MEET THE RELIABILITY AND QUALITY STANDARDS REQUIRED FOR VOICE COMMUNICATIONS COULD RENDER OUR PRODUCTS OBSOLETE. Circuit-switched telephony networks feature very high reliability, with a guaranteed quality of service. In addition, such networks have imperceptible delay and consistently satisfactory audio quality. VoIP networks will not be a viable alternative to traditional circuit switched telephony unless they can provide reliability and quality consistent with these standards. ONLINE CREDIT CARD FRAUD CAN HARM OUR BUSINESS. The sale of our products and services over the Internet exposes us to credit card fraud risks. Many of our products and services, including our VoIP services, can be ordered or established (in the case of new accounts) over the Internet using a major credit card for payment. As is prevalent in retail telecommunications and Internet services industries, we are exposed to the risk that some of these credit card accounts are stolen or otherwise fraudulently obtained. In general, we are not able to recover fraudulent credit card charges from such accounts. In addition to the loss of revenue from such fraudulent credit card use, we also remain liable to third parties whose products or services are engaged by us (such as termination fees due telecommunications providers) in connection with the services which we provide. In addition, depending upon the level of credit card fraud we experience, we may become ineligible to accept the credit cards of certain issuers. We are currently authorized to accept Discover, together with Visa and MasterCard (which are both covered by a single merchant agreement with us). Visa/MasterCard constitutes the primary credit card used by our VoIP customers. The loss of eligibility for acceptance of Visa/MasterCard could significantly and adversely affect our business. During 2004, we updated our fraud controls and will attempt to manage fraud risks through our internal controls and our monitoring and blocking systems. If those efforts are not successful, fraud could cause our revenue to decline significantly and our business, financial condition and results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMPUTER GAMES BUSINESS THE MARKET SITUATION CONTINUES TO BE A CHALLENGE FOR CHIPS & BITS DUE TO ADVANCES IN CONSOLE AND ONLINE GAMES, WHICH HAVE LOWER MARGINS AND TRADITIONALLY LESS SALES LOYALTY TO CHIPS & BITS. Our subsidiary, Chips & Bits depends on major releases in the Personal Computer (“PC”) market for the majority of sales and profits. Advances in technology and the game industry’s increased focus on console and online game platforms, such as Xbox, PlayStation and GameCube, has dramatically reduced the number of major PC releases, which resulted in significant declines in revenues and gross margins for Chips & Bits. Because of the large installed base of personal computers, revenue and gross margin percentages may fluctuate with changes in the PC game market. However, we are unable to predict when, if ever, there will be a turnaround in the PC game market, or if we will be successful in adequately increasing our future sales of non-PC games. WE HAVE HISTORICALLY RELIED SUBSTANTIALLY ON ADVERTISING REVENUES, WHICH COULD DECLINE IN THE FUTURE. We historically derived a substantial portion of our revenues from the sale of advertisements, primarily in our Computer Games Magazine. Our games business model and our ability to generate sufficient future levels of print and online advertising revenues are highly dependent on the print circulation of our magazine, as well as the amount of traffic on our websites and our ability to properly monetize website traffic. Print and online advertising market volumes have declined in the past and may decline in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Many advertisers have been experiencing financial difficulties which could further negatively impact our revenues and our ability to collect our receivables. For these reasons, we cannot assure you that our current advertisers will continue to purchase advertisements from us or that we will be successful in selling advertising to new advertisers. 30 WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE IN THE ELECTRONIC COMMERCE MARKETPLACE. The games marketplace has become increasingly competitive due to acquisitions, strategic partnerships and the continued consolidation of a previously fragmented industry. In addition, an increasing number of major retailers have increased the selection of video games offered by both their traditional “bricks and mortar” locations and their online commerce sites, resulting in increased competition. Our Chips & Bits subsidiary may not be able to compete successfully in this highly competitive marketplace. We also face many uncertainties, which may affect our ability to generate electronic commerce revenues and profits, including: · our ability to obtain new customers at a reasonable cost, retain existing customers and encourage repeat purchases; · the likelihood that both online and retail purchasing trends may rapidly change; · the level of product returns; · merchandise shipping costs and delivery times; · our ability to manage inventory levels; · our ability to secure and maintain relationships with vendors; and · the possibility that our vendors may sell their products through other sites. Additionally, if use of the Internet for electronic commerce does not continue to grow, our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. INTENSE COMPETITION FOR ELECTRONIC COMMERCE REVENUES HAS RESULTED IN DOWNWARD PRESSURE ON GROSS MARGINS. Due to the ability of consumers to easily compare prices of similar products or services on competing websites and consumers’ potential preference for competing website’s user interface, gross margins for electronic commerce transactions, which are narrower than for advertising businesses, may further narrow in the future and, accordingly, our revenues and profits from electronic commerce arrangements may be materially and adversely affected. OUR ELECTRONIC COMMERCE BUSINESS MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT LIABILITY CLAIMS AGAINST US. Consumers may sue us if any of the products that we sell are defective, fail to perform properly or injure the user. Consumers are also increasingly seeking to impose liability on game manufacturers and distributors based upon the content of the games and the alleged affect of such content on behavior. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. As a result, any claims, whether or not successful, could seriously damage our reputation and our business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS OUR CONTRACT TO SERVE AS THE REGISTRY FOR THE “.TRAVEL” TOP-LEVEL DOMAIN MAY BE TERMINATED EARLY, WHICH WOULD LIKELY DO IRREPARABLE HARM TO OUR NEWLY DEVELOPING INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. Our contract with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (“ICANN”) to serve as the registry for the “.travel” top-level Internet domain is for an initial term of ten years. Additionally, we have agreed to engage in good faith negotiations at regular intervals throughout the term of our contract (at least once every three years) regarding possible changes to the provisions of the contract, including changes in the fees and payments that we are required to make to ICANN. In the event that we materially and fundamentally breach the contract and fail to cure such breach within thirty days of notice, ICANN has the right to immediately terminate our contract. 31 Should our “.travel” registry contract be terminated early by ICANN, we would likely permanently shutdown our Internet services business. Further, we could be held liable to pay additional fees or financial damages to ICANN or certain of our related subcontractors and, in certain limited circumstances, to pay punitive, exemplary or other damages to ICANN. Any such developments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED IF IN THE FUTURE THE ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE INTERNET NO LONGER RELIES UPON THE EXISTING DOMAIN NAME SYSTEM. The domain name registration industry continues to develop and adapt to changing technology. This development may include changes in the administration or operation of the Internet, including the creation and institution of alternate systems for directing Internet traffic without the use of the existing domain name system. The widespread acceptance of any alternative systems could eliminate the need to register a domain name to establish an online presence and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE OUTSOURCE CERTAIN OPERATIONS WHICH EXPOSES US TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR THIRD PARTY VENDORS. We do not develop and maintain all of the products and services that we offer. We offer most of our services to our customers through various third party service providers engaged to perform these services on our behalf and also outsource most of our operations to third parties. Accordingly, we are dependent, in part, on the services of third party service providers, which may raise concerns by our customers regarding our ability to control the services we offer them if certain elements are managed by another company. In the event that these service providers fail to maintain adequate levels of support, do not provide high quality service, discontinue their lines of business, cease or reduce operations or terminate their contracts with us, our business, operations and customer relations may be impacted negatively and we may be required to pursue replacement third party relationships, which we may not be able to obtain on as favorable terms or at all. If a problem should arise with a provider, transitioning services and data from one provider to another can often be a complicated and time consuming process and we cannot assure that if we need to switch from a provider we would be able to do so without significant disruptions, or at all. If we were unable to complete a transition to a new provider on a timely basis, or at all, we could be forced to either temporarily or permanently discontinue certain services which may disrupt services to our customers. Any failure to provide services would have a negative impact on our revenue, profitability and financial condition and could materially harm our Internet services business. REGULATORY AND STATUTORY CHANGES COULD HARM OUR INTERNET SERVICES BUSINESS. We cannot predict with any certainty the effect that new governmental or regulatory policies, including changes in consumer privacy policies or industry reaction to those policies, will have on our domain name registry business. Additionally, ICANN’s limited resources may seriously affect its ability to carry out its mandate or could force ICANN to impose additional fees on registries. Changes in governmental or regulatory statutes or policies could cause decreases in future revenue and increases in future costs which could have a material adverse effect on the development of our domain name registry business. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK THE VOLUME OF SHARES AVAILABLE FOR FUTURE SALE IN THE OPEN MARKET COULD DRIVE DOWN THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK OR KEEP OUR STOCK PRICE FROM IMPROVING, EVEN IF OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IMPROVES. As of March 21, 2006, we had issued and outstanding approximately 174.7 million shares, of which approximately 70.1 million shares were freely tradable over the public markets. There is limited trading volume in our shares and we are now traded only in the over-the-counter market. Most of our outstanding restricted shares of Common Stock were issued more than one year ago and are therefore eligible to be resold over the public markets pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 32 Sales of significant amounts of Common Stock in the public market in the future, the perception that sales will occur or the registration of additional shares pursuant to existing contractual obligations could materially and adversely drive down the price of our stock. In addition, such factors could adversely affect the ability of the market price of the Common Stock to increase even if our business prospects were to improve. Substantially all of our stockholders holding restricted securities, including shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants or the conversion of the Convertible Notes to acquire our Common Stock (which are convertible into 68 million shares), have registration rights under various conditions and will become available for resale in the future. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, there were outstanding options to purchase approximately 15.4 million shares of our Common Stock, which become eligible for sale in the public market from time to time depending on vesting and the expiration of lock-up agreements. The shares issuable upon exercise of these options are registered under the Securities Act and consequently, subject to certain volume restrictions as to shares issuable to executive officers, will be freely tradable. Also as of March 21, 2006, we had issued and outstanding warrants to acquire approximately 7.3 million shares of our Common Stock. In addition, the Company holds in escrow warrants to acquire up to 1.5 shares of Common Stock, subject to release over approximately the next year (some of which may accelerate under certain events) upon the attainment of certain performance objectives. Many of the outstanding instruments representing the warrants contain anti-dilution provisions pursuant to which the exercise prices and number of shares issuable upon exercise may be adjusted. OUR CHAIRMAN MAY CONTROL US. Michael S. Egan, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns or controls, directly or indirectly, approximately 140.7 million shares of our Common Stock as of March 21, 2006, which in the aggregate represents approximately 57% of the outstanding shares of our Common Stock (treating as outstanding for this purpose the shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise and/or conversion of the options, Convertible Notes and warrants owned by Mr. Egan or his affiliates). Accordingly, Mr. Egan will be able to exercise significant influence over, if not control, any stockholder vote. DELISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAKES IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO SELL SHARES. THIS MAY POTENTIALLY LEAD TO FUTURE MARKET DECLINES. The shares of our Common Stock were delisted from the NASDAQ national market in April 2001 and are now traded in the over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board or "OTCBB." As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. The delisting has made trading our shares more difficult for investors, potentially leading to further declines in share price and making it less likely our stock price will increase. It has also made it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We may also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if we sell equity due to our delisting. OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO CERTAIN "PENNY STOCK" RULES WHICH MAY MAKE IT A LESS ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT. Since the trading price of our Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share, trading in our Common Stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act if our net tangible assets were to fall below $2.0 million. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our Common Stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. 33 ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AFFECTING US COULD PREVENT OR DELAY A CHANGE OF CONTROL. Provisions of our charter, by-laws and stockholder rights plan and provisions of applicable Delaware law may: · have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company; · discourage bids of our Common Stock at a premium over the market price; or · adversely affect the market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of, our Common Stock. Certain Delaware laws could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of our Company. One of these laws prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met. In addition, provisions of our charter and by-laws, and the significant amount of Common Stock held by our current executive officers, directors and affiliates, could together have the effect of discouraging potential takeover attempts or making it more difficult for stockholders to change management. In addition, the employment contracts of our Chairman and CEO, President and Vice President of Finance provide for substantial lump sum payments ranging from 2 (for the Vice President) to 10 times (for each of the Chairman and President) of their respective average combined salaries and bonuses (together with the continuation of various benefits for extended periods) in the event of their termination without cause or a termination by the executive for “good reason,” which is conclusively presumed in the event of a “change-in-control” (as such terms are defined in such agreements). OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE AND MAY DECLINE. The trading price of our Common Stock has been volatile and may continue to be volatile in response to various factors, including: · the performance and public acceptance of our new product lines; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · competitive announcements; · sales of any of our businesses, including the recent sale of our SendTec business; · the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable to us; · news relating to trends in our markets; and · disposition or entry into new lines of business and acquisitions of businesses, including our Tralliance acquisition. The market price of our Common Stock could also decline as a result of unforeseen factors. The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of technology companies, particularly Internet related companies, have been highly volatile. Our stock is also more volatile due to the limited trading volume and the high number of shares eligible for trading in the market. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 ITEM 