ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves multiple risks and substantial uncertainty. The following discussion addresses risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ from expectations in material ways. In evaluating our business, investors should pay particular attention to the risks and uncertainties described below and in other sections of this report and in our subsequent filings with the SEC. These risks and uncertainties, or other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We depend on sales of a relatively small number of our solutions for a substantial majority of our revenues, and decreased demand for any of those solutions could substantially harm our revenues, while we may be unable to expand our service offerings successfully. We generated 90% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 from our travel procurement, expense management, and integrated travel procurement and expense management solutions. We expect these solutions to continue to constitute a large percentage of our total revenues even as we expand our service offerings. Our financial performance and business outlook depends on continued market acceptance of these solutions. If customers reduce or cancel their subscriptions for our solutions due to economic conditions or because our competitors (some of which have substantially greater resources than we do) develop new offerings, or if we do not keep up with technological advancements in services and software platforms, delivery models or product features, our revenues could decline. There can be no assurance that our solutions will continue to maintain current levels of market penetration or that we will maintain current levels of revenues from sales of these solutions in the future. There can also be no assurance that we will be able to introduce new solutions successfully, or that any initial interest in such solutions will result in significant revenue or long term success for us. If the market for integrated travel and expense management services develops more slowly than we expect it to, our future revenue and profitability will be harmed. The market for integrated travel and expense management services is developing, and it is not certain whether these services will continue to achieve market acceptance and sustain high demand. Our future revenue and profits depend on increasing customer subscriptions for integrated travel and expense management services. The market for integrated travel and expense management services may not grow, or may shrink. Our future financial performance and revenue growth depend on the willingness of enterprise customers to use integrated travel and expense management services. Many enterprises have internal resources and processes to manage corporate travel and expenses, so they may not perceive the benefit of our external integrated travel and expense management services. Privacy concerns and transition costs are also factors that may affect an enterprise’s decision to subscribe to an external solution. If enterprises do not value the benefit of integrated travel and expense services, then the market for these services will not develop at the rate that we anticipate. Uncertain and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our financial performance depends, in part, on the state of the global economy, which has deteriorated in the recent past, and which remains uncertain and may deteriorate in the future. Declining levels of global economic activity typically lead to declines in corporate spending on travel, fewer travel and expense transactions, lower information technology spending, and deceased revenue for us. The core factors that affect customer usage and therefore our subscription revenue are unemployment, recession-driven attrition through business failure or acquisition, and travel budget cutbacks. If unfavorable economic conditions remain uncertain or worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents We face significant competition from companies with longer operating histories and greater resources than we have, and our business, financial condition and operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. Our principal direct competition comes from independent vendors of corporate travel and expense management software and services, as well as financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors that sell products similar to ours along with their suites of other products and services. Some of our competitors may offer services similar to ours at a greatly reduced price to achieve greater sales of other services. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories; more financial, technical, marketing and other resources; greater name recognition; and more customers for their products and services than we do. Some of our competitors, particularly major financial institutions and enterprise resource planning software vendors, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, as well as with systems integrators and other vendors and service providers. Our competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, or better withstand economic downturns. We also compete with the internal development efforts of potential customers and, at times, have to overcome their reluctance to move away from existing paper-based systems. In addition, we anticipate the entrance of new competitors in the future. This competitive landscape may make it difficult for us to achieve our objective of increasing the number of our customers and expanding our role in the travel supply chain. Increased competition may also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and change in market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on strategic relationships with reseller and referral partners, so if we do not maintain our existing strategic relationships or enter into new strategic relationships, our revenues could decline. We depend on strategic reseller and referral relationships to offer products and services to a larger customer base than we can reach through our current direct sales, telesales and internal marketing efforts. Some of our strategic reseller and referral partners are in early stages of operation and, accordingly, it is not certain whether our partners will be able or willing to expend the required effort and resources to market our products and services successfully or provide the volume and quality of orders and lead referrals that we expect. In addition, some of our partners have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors. Further, many of our partners have multiple strategic relationships and they may not regard us as significant for their businesses. Our partners may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, or attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our products or services. Our partners also may impair our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. Further, unfavorable global economic conditions may hurt our partners, making them less effective or causing them to modify or cancel their relationships with us. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships or enter into new ones, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sales and marketing of our products and services, which would increase our costs and decrease our earnings. Our operating results depend on our ability to grow our subscription services. Our costs of providing subscription services are relatively fixed in the short term, so we may not be able to adjust expenses quickly enough to offset slowdowns in subscription sales. In addition, delays in deployment of our subscription services may prevent us from recognizing subscription revenue for indeterminate periods of time, even when we have already incurred costs relating to the deployment. Further, we may experience unanticipated increases in costs associated with providing our subscription services to customers over the term of our customer contracts as a result of inaccurate internal cost projections or other factors, which may harm our operating results. If our customers cannot make payments or gain access to credit to make payments, they may be 13 Table of Contents forced to cancel existing subscriptions for our products and services. Some of our sales contracts contain cancellation provisions and, if cancelled, could result in us recognizing substantially less revenue than the aggregate value of those contracts over their terms. If customers terminate subscription agreements before the end of their respective terms, or if we are not able to renew such agreements, our operating results could be adversely affected. We depend on our relationships with travel suppliers, so adverse changes in our existing relationships could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An important component of our business success is our ability to maintain and develop relationships with travel suppliers. Adverse changes in existing relationships, including any impact of the economic recession on the businesses of those suppliers, could reduce the amount, quality and breadth of attractively priced travel products and services that we are able to offer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. If our customers have concerns over the scalability or security of our products, they may not continue buying our products and our revenues will decline. If customers believe that our subscription services offerings are not sufficiently scalable, do not provide adequate security for the dissemination of information over the Internet or corporate extranets, or are otherwise inadequate for Internet or extranet use or if, for any other reason, our customers decide not to accept our subscription services for use, our business will be harmed. As part of our subscription services, we receive credit card, travel booking, employee, purchasing, supplier and other financial and accounting data, through the Internet or extranets and there can be no assurance that this information will not be subject to computer break-ins, theft and other improper activity that could jeopardize the security of information handled by our products. Any such lapse in security could expose us to litigation, loss of customers, damage to our reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, any person who circumvents our security measures could steal proprietary or confidential customer information or cause interruptions in our operations. We incur significant costs to protect against security breaches, and may incur significant additional costs to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Customers’ concerns about security could deter them from using the Internet to conduct transactions that involve confidential information, so our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could significantly harm our business and financial results. Privacy concerns could result in regulatory changes that may impose additional costs and liabilities on us and limit our use of information. Many of our travel and expense software solutions collect, store and report information regarding travel procurement and employee spending. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and many other countries where we operate. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have imposed or are considering imposing restrictions and requirements regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and individuals. Changes to laws or regulations affecting privacy, if applicable to our business, could impose additional costs and liability on us and could limit our use and disclosure of such information. If we were required to change our business activities or revise or eliminate services, our business could be harmed. Privacy concerns, whether valid or not, may inhibit market adoption of our service in certain industries and foreign countries In addition, we may be subject to fines, penalties and potential litigation if we fail to comply with such regulatory restrictions and requirements. 14 Table of Contents Interruption of our operations could prevent us from delivering our products and services to our customers, which could significantly harm our business. Because our business is primarily conducted over the Internet, it depends on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our computer equipment, offices and hosting facilities against damage from earthquake, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion and other events. There can be no assurance that our disaster preparedness will prevent significant interruption of our operations. In addition, we engage third party facility providers for our Web hosting facilities and related infrastructure that is essential for our subscription services. Our service to customers could be interrupted in the event of a natural disaster, by a hosting provider decision to close a facility or terminate operations or by other unanticipated problems. Similarly, we use third-party telecommunications providers for Internet and other telecommunication services. We also rely heavily on our own and third-party financial, accounting, and other data processing systems, as well as various financial institutions to perform financial services in connection with our operations and our services offerings, such as providing depository services and executing Automated Clearing House and wire transfers as part of our expense reimbursement services. Any of these third-party providers may fail to perform their obligations adequately, and any of these third-party systems may fail to operate properly or become disabled for varying periods of time, causing business interruption, system damage, or inability to process funds on behalf of our customers, which could reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions, cause other liability to customers, or cause regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate, and if we fail to meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, our stock price could decline substantially. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, and if they fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could substantially decline. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results include: • general economic and market conditions; • the evolving demand for our solutions; • spending decisions by our customers and prospective customers; • our ability to manage expenses; • the timing of new product releases; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of large contracts or contract terminations; • changes in mix of our offerings; • the mix of sales channels through which our solutions are sold; • costs of developing new products and enhancements; • our ability to adequately provide software solutions on-demand; • foreign currency fluctuations; and • global political conditions. Our acquisitions of, and investments in, other companies, products, or technologies may not yield expected benefits. As part of our business strategy, from time to time we invest in or acquire complementary businesses, joint ventures, products or technologies, and we expect that we will make such investments and acquisitions in the 15 Table of Contents future. For example, our most recent acquisition occurred in July 2011, when we acquired GlobalExpense, a London-based market leader in Web-based end-to-end expense management. In March 2011, we invested in ClearTrip Inc., a leading provider of online travel services in India. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions or investments to the extent that we anticipate, or at all, because acquisitions and investments involve many risks, including: • difficulties integrating the acquired operations, personnel, technologies, products or infrastructure; • diversion of management attention or other resources from other business operations and strategic priorities; • unexpected difficulties encountered when we enter new markets in which we have little or no experience, or where competitors may have stronger market positions; • potential loss of key employees; • inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our products and services; • potential unknown liabilities associated with an acquired business or investment; • unanticipated expenses related to integrating acquired technology with our existing technology; • the impact on our results of operations due to depreciation and amortization related to acquired intangible assets, fixed assets and deferred compensation; • potential litigation, such as claims by third parties related to intellectual property of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest; • potential write-offs of our investments in acquired assets; • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; and • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences. We may issue additional equity securities or convertible debt securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders and affect the trading price of our securities. If any acquisition or investment is not perceived as ultimately improving our financial condition and operating results, our stock price may decline. Further, if we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed and the value of your investment may decline. The growth of the international component of our business subjects us to additional management challenges and incremental costs associated with foreign operations. Our international operations are an increasingly important part of our business. Customers located outside the United States represented 14% of our total revenues in 2011. In addition, a portion of our United States revenue reflects utilization of our services outside of the United States by customers located in the United States. We expect international revenues as a percentage of our total revenues to increase. Our international operations are subject to many difficulties and incremental costs, including: • costs to customize our products for foreign markets; • foreign currency exchange rate risk; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • different pricing environments; • longer sales cycles; 16 Table of Contents • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • adverse tax consequences; • potentially weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing our rights abroad; • regional data privacy laws that apply to the transmission of customer data across international borders; • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • Regional economic and political conditions. Our ability to sell our solutions into international markets will depend on our ability to develop and support solutions that incorporate the tax laws, accounting practices and currencies of applicable countries. Our international operations also involve foreign currency risks for us. Most of our revenues are denominated in United States dollars, but we believe that an increasing portion of our revenues will be denominated in foreign currencies. Unfavorable economic conditions have been accompanied by increased foreign currency exchange rate volatility. Our international revenues and expenses are currently subject to the risks of foreign currency fluctuations. Our international operations also increase our exposure to international laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. For example, the governments of foreign countries might attempt to regulate our services and products or levy sales or other taxes relating to our activities. In addition, foreign countries might impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business in international markets. In 2009 and 2011, we acquired products and services in international markets through our acquisitions of Etap-On-Line and GlobalExpense Limited. In 2011, we also established a Japanese joint venture, Concur Japan. We intend to continue to expand our global sales and marketing activities and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We are in the early stages of developing our distribution channels in markets outside the United States. We may not be able to attract and retain distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported financial results. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and will occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect investor views of us and the value of our common stock. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. However, despite our efforts any failure to maintain or implement 17 Table of Contents required controls could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in the trading price of our stock. Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, and these compliance expenses are expected to increase over time. For example, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and rules subsequently implemented or to be implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market include new disclosure and corporate governance requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel are required to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. If we do not adequately comply with applicable laws and regulations applicable to public companies, we could be subject to liability, increased compliance costs, regulatory inquiries or litigation. Our lengthy sales cycle could cause our operating results to vary significantly. Our sales cycle, which is the time between initial contact with a potential customer and the ultimate sale, is often lengthy and unpredictable. Our potential customers typically commit significant resources to an evaluation of available alternatives and require us to expend substantial time, effort and money educating them about the value of our offerings. As a result, we have limited ability to forecast the timing and size of specific sales. In addition, customers may delay their purchases from one quarter to another as they wait for new product enhancements. Customers may delay their purchases for even longer periods due to their inability to assess and forecast future business activity, impaired purchasing ability or other economic factors. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, sales in a particular quarter or year could harm our business and could cause our operating results to vary significantly. If we do not successfully develop or introduce new products or enhancements to existing products, or successfully integrate acquired products and services with our offerings, we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers and our financial performance and revenue growth may suffer. Our financial performance and revenue growth depends upon the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our software solutions and on our ability to integrate products and services that we acquire into our existing and future solutions. We have experienced delays in the planned release dates of enhancements to our solutions and we have discovered errors in new releases after their introduction. Either situation could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our products and services, or customer claims, including, among other things, warranty claims against us, any of which could cause us to lose existing customers or affect our ability to attract new customers. If we do not deliver new product versions, upgrades or other enhancements to existing products and services on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may lose existing customers or may not be able to attract new customers. We are also continually seeking to develop new offerings. However, we remain subject to all of the risks inherent in product development, including unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in product introduction and acceptance or significantly increased costs. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new solutions successfully, or to introduce and gain market acceptance of new solutions in a timely manner. 18 Table of Contents If our products and services do not keep pace with technological change, our sales could decline and our business could be harmed. We must continually modify and enhance our software solutions to keep pace with changes in hardware and software platforms, database technology, electronic commerce technical standards and other items. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions, or modifications by vendors of operating systems, back-office applications and browsers and other Internet-related applications, could cause our sales to decline and harm our business. We rely on third-party software and services that may be difficult to replace. We license or purchase software and services provided by third parties to offer some of our services and software offerings. Such third-party software and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss or inability to maintain our rights to use any of these software or services could result in delays in the sale of our services or software offerings until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated, which could harm our business. Our stock price has experienced high volatility, may continue to be volatile and may decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may do so in the future, as a result of many factors. In particular, the stock market as a whole has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies’ operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate include: • general and industry-specific business, economic and market conditions; • the announcement of a merger or acquisition; • fluctuations in our actual and anticipated operating results; • changes in our earnings estimates, or other information published by analysts; • failing to achieve revenue or earnings expectations; • volatility inherent in prices of technology company stocks; • adverse publicity; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales upon exercise of outstanding options. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining key personnel. Many of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than us for attracting experienced personnel. We also compete for personnel with other software vendors and consulting and professional services companies. Further, changes in applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. We rely on our direct sales force to sell our services and software in the marketplace. We anticipate increasing our direct sales force. There is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the advanced sales skills and technical knowledge we need. If we were not able to hire or retain competent sales personnel our business would suffer. In addition, by relying primarily on a direct sales model, we may miss sales opportunities that might be available through other sales channels, such as 19 Table of Contents domestic and international resellers and strategic referral arrangements. Any inability to hire and retain salespeople or any other qualified personnel, or any loss of the services of key personnel, would harm our business. Our ability to protect our intellectual property is limited and we have been or may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets and other proprietary information and our ability to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure and use. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information. We have issued patents and have patent applications pending in various countries. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other data transmitted. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products or other intellectual property rights. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties claiming that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The cost to defend or settle these claims could be material to our business. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, could divert management attention from executing our business plans and could require us to change our technology, change our business practices and/or pay monetary damages or enter into short- or long-term royalty or licensing agreements which may not be available in the future at the same terms or at all. In addition, many of our customer agreements require us to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling on such a claim. Any adverse determination related to intellectual property claims or litigation could prevent us from offering our solutions to others, or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, over the past several years, we have made numerous changes in our product names. Although we own registered trademarks in the United States and have filed trademark applications in the United States and in certain other countries, we cannot assure you that our strategy with respect to our trademark portfolio will be adequate to secure or protect all necessary intellectual property. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of Concur. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware General Corporation Law, may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of Concur. For example: • our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with special voting or economic rights; • our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights and, therefore, each of our directors can only be elected by a majority of our votes cast at a stockholder meeting; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; • our stockholders may not take action by written consent; • our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year; 20 Table of Contents • we require advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, under certain circumstances, may make it more difficult for a person who would be an “Interested Stockholder,” as defined in Section 203, to effect various business combinations with us for a three-year period. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws do not exclude us from the restrictions imposed under Section 203. In addition, the fundamental changes provisions of our outstanding senior convertible notes due in 2015 may delay or prevent a change in control of Concur, because those provisions allow note holders to require us to repurchase the notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change. We have increased our indebtedness. In April 2010, we completed an offering of $287.5 million aggregate principal amount of our senior convertible notes due in 2015, as a result of which we incurred approximately $287.5 million principal amount of new indebtedness that we may be required to repurchase at maturity in 2015 or upon the occurrence of fundamental changes. There can be no assurance that we will be able to repay this indebtedness when due, or that we will be able to refinance this indebtedness on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, this indebtedness could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to pay other obligations; • make it difficult to obtain favorable terms for any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes; and • limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business. Conversion of our senior convertible notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding senior convertible notes due in 2015 will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver newly-issued shares of common stock upon conversion. Holders of such notes may convert them on or after January 15, 2015, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of such notes. We expect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash and potentially shares of common stock. Prior to January 15, 2015, conversion of such notes is subject to satisfaction of certain conditions. Any sales in the public market of shares of common stock issued upon conversion of such notes could adversely affect trading prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of such notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of such notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of such notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The note hedges and warrants may adversely affect the value of our common stock. In connection with our offering of senior convertible notes due in 2015, we entered into note hedges covering approximately 5 million shares of our common stock. We also sold warrants to acquire up to approximately 5.5 million shares of our common stock at an initial strike price of $73.29. The note hedges are intended to reduce the potential economic dilution to our common stock upon conversion of the senior convertible notes. However, the warrants could have a dilutive effect, if the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants. The counterparties to our note hedges and warrants are likely to enter into or unwind various derivatives with respect to our common stock, or purchase or sell shares of our common stock or other securities linked to or referencing our common stock in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the senior convertible notes. These activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 