ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions or beliefs that we believe to be reasonable; however assumed facts almost always vary from the actual results, and differences between assumed facts and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, based on assumptions, we or our management express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the stated expectation or belief will occur, be achieved or accomplished. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Business Our operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks. Our operations are subject to the inherent risks normally associated with those operations, including pipeline failures, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), terrorist activity or acts of aggression, and other hazards. Each of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damages or injuries to persons and property causing us to suffer substantial losses. In addition, although the potential effects of climate change on our operations (such as hurricanes, flooding, etc.) are uncertain at this time, changes in climate patterns as a result of global emissions of greenhouse gas could have a negative impact upon our operations in the future, particularly with regard to the facilities of our Pipeline and Exploration and Production segments that are located in or near the Gulf of Mexico and other coastal regions. While we maintain insurance against many of these risks to the extent and in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles and self-insurance levels, limits on our maximum recovery, and do not cover all risks. There is also the risk that our coverages will change over time in light of increased premiums or changes in the terms of the insurance coverages that could result in our decision to either terminate certain coverages, increase our deductibles and self-insurance levels, or decrease our maximum recoveries. In addition, there is a risk that our insurers may default on their coverage obligations. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. The success of our pipeline business depends, in part, on factors beyond our control. The results of our pipeline business are impacted by the volumes of natural gas we transport or store and the prices we are able to charge for doing so. The volumes of natural gas we are able to transport and store depend on the actions of third parties and are beyond our control. Such actions include factors that impact our customers’ demand and producers’ supply, including factors that negatively impact our customers’ need for natural gas from us, as well as the continued availability of natural gas production and reserves connected to our pipeline systems. Further, the following factors, most of which are also beyond our control, may unfavorably impact our ability to maintain or increase current throughput, or to remarket unsubscribed capacity on our pipeline systems: 32 Table of Contents • service area competition; • price competition; • expiration or turn back of significant contracts; • changes in regulation and action of regulatory bodies; • weather conditions that impact natural gas throughput and storage levels; • weather fluctuations or warming or cooling trends that may impact demand in the markets in which we do business, including trends potentially attributed to climate change; • drilling activity and decreased availability of conventional gas supply sources and the availability and timing of other natural gas supply sources, such as LNG and gas shale supplies; • continued development of additional sources of gas supply that can be accessed; • decreased natural gas demand due to various factors, including economic recession (as further discussed below), availability of alternate energy sources and increases in prices; • legislative, regulatory, or judicial actions, such as mandatory renewable portfolio standards and greenhouse gas (GHG) regulations and/or legislation that could result in (i) changes in the demand for natural gas and oil, (ii) changes in the availability of or demand for alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric and nuclear power, wind and solar energy and/or (iii) changes in the demand for less carbon intensive energy sources; • availability and cost to fund ongoing maintenance and growth projects, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline; • opposition to energy infrastructure development, especially in environmentally sensitive areas; • adverse general economic conditions including prolonged recessionary periods that might negatively impact natural gas demand and the capital markets; • our ability to achieve targeted annual operating and administrative expenses primarily by reducing internal costs and improving efficiencies from leveraging a consolidated supply chain organization; • expiration and/or renewal of existing interests in real property, including real property on Native American lands; and • unfavorable movements in natural gas prices in certain supply and demand areas. Certain of our pipeline systems’ transportation services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under “negotiated rate” contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or below the FERC regulated “recourse rate” for that service, and that contract must be filed and accepted by FERC. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation, cost of capital, taxes or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between “recourse rates” (if higher) and negotiated rates, under current FERC policy is generally not recoverable from other shippers. 33 Table of Contents The revenues of our pipeline businesses are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. Substantially all of our pipeline revenues are generated under transportation and storage contracts which expire periodically and must be renegotiated, extended or replaced. If we are unable to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or renegotiate contract terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. For additional information on the expiration of our contract portfolio, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. In particular, our ability to extend and replace contracts could be adversely affected by factors we cannot control, as discussed in more detail above. In addition, changes in state regulation of local distribution companies may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect our pipeline businesses. Revenues generated by our transportation, storage and LNG contracts depend on volumes and rates, both of which can be affected by the prices of natural gas and LNG. Increased prices could result in a reduction of the volumes transported by our customers, including power companies that may not dispatch natural gas-fired power plants if natural gas prices increase. Increased prices could also result in industrial plant shutdowns or load losses to competitive fuels as well as local distribution companies’ loss of customer base. The success of our transmission, storage and LNG operations is subject to continued development of additional gas supplies to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to our systems, which requires the development of additional oil and natural gas reserves, obtaining additional supplies from interconnecting pipelines, and the development of LNG facilities on or near our systems. A decline in energy prices could cause a decrease in these development activities and could cause a decrease in the volume of reserves available for transmission, storage and processing through our systems. Pricing volatility may impact the value of under or over recoveries of retained natural gas, imbalances and system encroachments. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to our pipeline systems are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our long-term recontracting activities. Furthermore, fluctuations in pricing between supply sources and market areas could negatively impact our transportation revenues. Consequently, a significant prolonged downturn in natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Fluctuations in energy prices are caused by a number of factors, including: • regional, domestic and international supply and demand, including changes in supply and demand due to general economic conditions and weather; • availability and adequacy of gathering, processing and transportation facilities; • energy legislation and regulation, including potential changes associated with GHG emissions and renewable portfolio standards; • federal and state taxes, if any, on the sale or transportation of natural gas and NGL; • the price and availability of supplies of alternative energy sources; and • the level of imports, including the potential impact of political unrest among countries producing oil and LNG, as well as the ability of certain foreign countries to maintain natural gas and oil price, production and export controls. 34 Table of Contents The expansion of our pipeline systems by constructing new facilities subjects us to construction and other risks that may adversely affect the financial results of our pipeline businesses. We may expand the capacity of our existing pipeline, storage or LNG facilities by constructing additional facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by the FERC and other regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us, including the potential impact of delays and increased costs caused by certain environmental and landowner groups with interests along the route of our pipelines; • the ability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund expansion projects, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline when we may be unable to access the capital markets; • the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and orders, such as environmental requirements, including climate change requirements that delay or prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; • impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights or to commence and complete construction on a timely basis or on terms that are acceptable to us; • our ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that we may incur cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, contractor productivity, delays in construction or other factors beyond our control, that we may not be able to recover from our customers which may be material; • the lack of future growth in natural gas supply and/or demand; and • the lack of transportation, storage or throughput commitments. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. There is also the risk that the downturn in the economy and its negative impact upon natural gas demand may result in either slower development in our expansion projects or adjustments in the contractual commitments supporting such projects. As a result, new facilities may be delayed or may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Our pipeline systems depend on certain key customers and producers for a significant portion of their revenues. The loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our systems’ revenues. Our systems rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our systems’ revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the four largest natural gas transportation customers for each of TGP, CIG, EPNG and SNG accounted for approximately 22 percent, 60 percent, 52 percent and 44 percent of their respective operating revenues. The loss of all or even a portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our pipeline customers and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk of delays in payment as well as losses resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our pipeline customers, including default risk associated with adverse economic conditions. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit risk. In addition, in certain situations, we may assume certain additional credit risks for competitive reasons or otherwise. If our existing or future customers fail to pay and/or perform and we are unable to remarket the capacity, our business, the results of our operations and our financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to effectively remarket capacity during and after insolvency proceedings involving a shipper. We are exposed to the credit and performance risk of our key contractors and suppliers. As an owner of large energy infrastructure, including significant capital expansion programs, we rely on contractors for certain construction and drilling operations and we rely on suppliers for key materials and supplies, including steel mills and pipe manufacturers. There is a risk that such contractors and suppliers may experience credit and performance issues that could adversely impact their ability to perform their contractual obligations with us. This could result in delays or defaults in performing such contractual obligations, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in natural gas and oil prices could adversely affect the financial results of our exploration and production business. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and future rate of growth of our exploration and production business depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our natural gas and oil production. Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. Further, because the majority of our proved reserves at December 31, 2009 were natural gas reserves, we are substantially more sensitive to changes in natural gas prices than we are to changes in oil prices. Declines in natural gas and oil prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, could adversely affect the financial results of our exploration and production business. A decline in the first day 12-month average natural gas and oil prices could result in additional downward revisions of our reserves and additional full cost ceiling test write-downs of the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, which could be substantial, and would negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity. 36 Table of Contents The success of our exploration and production business is dependent, in part, on the following factors. The performance of our exploration and production business is dependent upon a number of factors that we cannot control, including: • the results of future drilling activity; • the availability and future costs of rigs, equipment and labor to support drilling activity and production operations; • our ability to identify and precisely locate prospective geologic structures and to drill and successfully complete wells in those structures in a timely manner; • our ability to expand our leased land positions in desirable areas, which often are subject to intensely competitive conditions from other companies; • our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; • adverse changes in future tax policies, rates, and drilling or production incentives by state, federal, or foreign governments; • increased federal or state regulations, including environmental regulations, that limit or restrict the ability to drill natural gas or oil wells, limit or restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing in our drilling operations, limit or restrict our access to water rights (including disposal of water and other fluids in our operations), reduce operational flexibility, or increase capital and operating costs; • governmental action affecting the profitability of our exploration and production activities, such as increased royalty rates payable on oil and gas leases, the imposition of additional taxes on such activities or the modification or withdrawal of tax incentives in favor of exploration and development activity; • our ability to receive certain government approvals or permits on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us; • our lack of control over jointly owned properties and properties operated by others; • declines in production volumes, including those from the Gulf of Mexico; and • continued access to sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund drilling programs to develop and replace a reserve base with rapid depletion characteristics especially in periods of prolonged economic decline when we may be unable to access the capital markets. Our natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve many risks and may not be profitable. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties and the drilling of natural gas and oil wells, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. Additionally, our offshore operations may encounter usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions, damage from collisions with vessels, governmental regulations and interruption or termination of drilling rights by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations. Each of these risks could result in damage to property, injuries to people or the shut in of existing production as damaged energy infrastructure is repaired or replaced. While we maintain insurance against many of these risks to the extent and in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles and self-insurance levels, limits on our maximum recovery and do not cover all risks, including potential environmental fines and penalties. In addition, there is a risk that our insurers may default on their coverage obligations. As a result, our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. 37 Table of Contents Our drilling operations are also subject to the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive reservoirs. New wells drilled by us may not be productive, or we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in those wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only because of dry holes but wells that are productive may not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flow is inherently imprecise. All estimates of proved reserves are determined according to the rules prescribed by the SEC. These rules require that the standard of “reasonable certainty” be applied to proved reserve estimates, which is defined as having a high degree of confidence that the quantities will be recovered. A high degree of confidence exists if the quantity is much more likely to be achieved than not, and, as more technical and economic data becomes available, a positive or upward revision or no revision is much more likely than a negative or downward revision. Estimates are subject to revision based upon a number of factors, including many factors beyond our control such as reservoir performance, prices, economic conditions and government restrictions. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of that estimate. Reserve estimates are often different from the quantities of natural gas and oil that are ultimately recovered. Estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process that involves significant interpretations and assumptions and cannot be measured in an exact manner. It requires interpretations and judgment of available technical data, including the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, and engineering data. The accuracy of any reserve estimate is highly dependent on the quality of available data, the accuracy of the assumptions on which it is based, and on engineering and geological interpretations and judgment. It also requires making estimates based upon economic factors, such as natural gas and oil prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures, workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. In addition, due to a lack of substantial, if any, production data, there are greater uncertainties in estimating proved undeveloped reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved developed reserves that are early in their production life. As a result, our reserve estimates are inherently imprecise. We also use a ten percent discount factor for estimating the value of our future net cash flows from reserves and a 12-month average price (calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the 12-month period prior to the end of the reporting period) as prescribed by the SEC. This discount factor may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our exploration and production business or the natural gas and oil industry, in general, are subject. Additionally, this first day 12-month average price will not generally represent the market prices for natural gas and oil over time. Any significant variations from the interpretations or assumptions used in our estimates, changes in commodity prices or changes of conditions could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of our reserves to differ materially. For estimated quantities of proved undeveloped reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved developed reserves as of December 31, 2009, see Item 1, Business, Natural Gas and Oil Properties. Our reserve data represents an estimate. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this report represent the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. The timing of the production and the expenses related to the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. Changes in the present value of these reserves could cause a write-down in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, which could be substantial, and would negatively affect our net income and stockholders’ equity. A portion of our estimated proved reserves are undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. In addition, as the portion of our proved reserve base that consists of unconventional sources increases, the costs of finding, developing and producing those reserves may require capital expenditures that are greater than more conventional sources. The reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but future events, including commodity price changes, may cause these assumptions to change. 38 Table of Contents The success of our exploration and production business depends upon our ability to replace reserves that we produce. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline which will eventually result in a decrease in natural gas and oil production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We historically have replaced reserves through both drilling and acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves requires substantial capital expenditures. Our operations require continued access to sufficient capital to fund drilling programs to develop and replace a reserve base with rapid depletion characteristics. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures, if our capital resources become limited, or if our exploration, development and acquisition activities are unsuccessful, we may not be able to replace the reserves that we produce, which would negatively affect our future revenues, cash flows and results of operations. We face competition from third parties to acquire and develop natural gas and oil reserves. The natural gas and oil business is highly competitive in the search for and acquisition of reserves. Our competitors include the major and independent natural gas and oil companies, individual producers, gas marketers and major pipeline companies some of which have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us, as well as participants in other industries supplying energy and fuel to industrial, commercial and individual consumers. In order to expand our leased land positions in intensively competitive and desirable areas, we must identify and precisely locate prospective geologic structures, identify and review any potential risks and uncertainties in these areas, and drill and successfully complete wells in a timely manner. Our future success and profitability in the production business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to identify these risks or uncertainties and find or acquire additional reserves at costs that allow us to remain competitive. Our use of derivative financial instruments could result in financial losses. Some of our subsidiaries use futures, over-the-counter options and price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions. To the extent we have positions that are not designated as accounting hedges or do not qualify as hedges, changes in commodity prices, interest rates, counterparty non-performance risks, volatility, correlation factors and the liquidity of the market could cause our revenues and net income to be volatile. We could incur financial losses in the future as a result of volatility in the market values of the energy commodities we trade, or if one of our counterparties fails to perform under a contract. The valuation of these financial instruments involves estimates. Changes in the assumptions underlying these estimates can occur, changing our valuation of these instruments and potentially resulting in financial losses. To the extent we enter into derivative contracts to manage our commodity price exposure and interest rate exposure, we forego the benefits we could otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change favorably. To the extent that we enter into fixed price derivative contracts, we could experience losses and be required to pay cash to the extent that commodity prices or interest rates were to increase above the fixed price. The use of derivatives, to the extent they require collateral posting with our counterparties, could impact our working capital (current assets less current liabilities) and liquidity when commodity prices or interest rates change. In this regard, there is proposed federal legislation that would require commodity derivative transactions that are currently traded “over-the-counter” to be traded over regulated exchanges that could require collateral posting for many of our derivative transactions that do not currently have collateral posting requirements and therefore would negatively impact our working capital requirements. For additional information concerning our derivative financial instruments, see Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 8. 39 Table of Contents Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks. Our activities in areas outside the United States, including power, pipeline and exploration and production projects in Brazil, exploration and production projects in Egypt, pipeline projects in Mexico and a power project in Pakistan, are subject to the risks inherent in foreign operations. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these sorts of risks which include: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars or insurrection; • the effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems; • changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including those associated with changes in the governing parties, nationalization, and expropriation; and • protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, customer authorizations or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations. The midstream business may be subject to additional risks associated with fluctuations in energy commodity prices. The midstream sector generally includes the gathering, transporting, processing, fractionating and storing of natural gas, NGLs and oil. The pricing for each of these hydrocarbon products has been volatile over time. In addition, the relative pricing between these hydrocarbon products has been volatile, which may affect fractionation spreads and the profitability of the business. Changes in prices and relative price levels may impact demand for hydrocarbon products, which in turn may impact production, demand and volumes of product for which we may provide services. A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries could affect the profitability of our midstream business. A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries, could adversely affect the profitability of our future midstream business. Various factors could impact the demand for NGL products, including general economic conditions, reduced demand by consumers for the end products made with NGL products, extended periods of ethane rejection, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, adverse weather conditions, availability of NGL processing and transportation capacity, government regulations affecting prices and production levels of natural gas, NGLs or the content of motor fuels. We will face competition from third parties in our midstream businesses. As we re-enter the midstream business, we will be competing with third parties to gather, transport, process, fractionate, store or handle hydrocarbons. Although we will attempt to leverage the synergies between our pipeline and exploration and production businesses, most of these third parties will have existing facilities and as a result initially have more scale and personnel than us. Therefore, there can be no assurances on how successful our re-entry into the midstream business will be. We will face additional reserve and volumetric risk in our midstream business. Although the revenues in our pipeline business are typically collected in the form of demand or reservation charges and are not dependent upon reserves or throughput levels, many transactions in the midstream business involve additional reserve and throughput risk. For example, natural gas and oil reserves committed to gathering and processing facilities may not be as large as expected, the life of the reserves may not be as long as expected or the producers may elect not to develop such reserves. We also cannot influence or control the production or the speed of development of the third-party natural gas we transport or process. The reserves committed will naturally decline overtime and our ability to attract new reserves in competition with third parties to replace these declining supplies is uncertain. Furthermore, the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than we anticipate. As a result, we may face additional reserve and throughput risk in our midstream business beyond what we typically experience in our pipeline business. 40 Table of Contents Retained liabilities associated with businesses that we have sold could exceed our estimates and we could experience difficulties in managing these liabilities. We have sold a significant number of assets and either retained certain liabilities or indemnified certain purchasers against future liabilities relating to businesses and assets sold, including breaches of warranties, environmental expenditures, asset maintenance, tax, litigation, personal injury claims and other representations that we have provided. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for these liabilities, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. We have experienced substantial reductions and turnover in the workforce that previously supported the ownership and operation of such assets which could result in difficulties in managing these businesses, including a reduction in historical knowledge of the assets and businesses and in managing the liabilities retained after closing or defending any associated litigation. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans. Our pipeline and exploration and production businesses require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce including engineers and other technical personnel. If we are unable to retain our current employees (many of which are retirement eligible) or recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters The outcome of governmental investigations could be materially adverse to us. We are subject to various governmental investigations from time to time, including investigations by the FERC and the U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Pipeline Safety. The results of any investigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. The agencies that regulate our pipeline businesses and their customers could affect our profitability. Our pipeline businesses are regulated by the FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Interior, and various state and local regulatory agencies whose actions have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. In particular, the FERC regulates the rates our pipelines are permitted to charge their customers for their services and sets authorized rates of return. Many of our pipelines periodically file to adjust their rates charged to their customers. In establishing those rates, the FERC uses a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the use of proxy groups to develop a range of reasonable returns earned on equity interests in companies with corresponding risks. The FERC then assigns a rate of return on equity within that range to reflect specific risks of that pipeline when compared to the proxy group companies. Depending on the specific risks faced by us and the companies included in the proxy group, the FERC may establish rates that are not acceptable to us and have a negative impact on our cash flows, profitability and results of operations. In addition, pursuant to laws and regulations, our existing rates may be challenged by complaint. The FERC commenced several complaint proceedings in 2009 against unaffiliated pipeline systems to reduce the rates they were charging their customers. There is a risk that the FERC or our customers could file similar complaints on one or more of our pipeline systems and that a successful complaint against our pipelines’ rates could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. We formed EPB, a master limited partnership, in 2007. The FERC currently allows publicly traded partnerships to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance. Any changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service and to potential adjustment in a future rate case of our pipelines’ respective equity rates of return that underlie their recourse rates may cause their recourse rates to be set at a level that is different, and in some instances lower than the level otherwise in effect, could negatively impact our investment in EPB. Also, increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines requires additional spending in order to maintain compliance with these requirements. Any additional requirements that are enacted could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. Further, state agencies that regulate our pipelines’ local distribution company customers could impose requirements that could impact demand for our pipelines’ services. 41 Table of Contents Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations regarding compliance and remediation obligations. Compliance obligations can result in significant costs to install and maintain pollution controls. In addition, although we have environmental management systems to manage our compliance obligations, fines and penalties can result from any failure to comply and potential limitations on our operations. Remediation obligations can result in significant costs associated with the investigation or clean-up of contaminated properties (some of which have been designated as Superfund sites by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act), as well as damage claims arising out of the contamination of properties or impact on natural resources. Although we believe we have processes and systems in place to establish appropriate reserves for our environmental liabilities, it is not possible for us to estimate the exact amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters and we could be required to set aside additional amounts which could significantly impact our future consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. See Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 13. In estimating our environmental liabilities, we face uncertainties that include: • estimating pollution control and clean up costs, including sites where preliminary site investigation or assessments have been completed; • discovering new sites or additional information at existing sites; • forecasting cash flow timing to implement proposed pollution control and cleanup costs; • receiving regulatory approval for remediation programs; • quantifying liability under environmental laws that may impose joint and several liability on potentially responsible parties and managing allocation responsibilities; • evaluating and understanding environmental laws and regulations, including their interpretation and enforcement; • interpreting whether various maintenance activities performed in the past and currently being performed required pre-construction permits pursuant to the Clean Air Act; and • changing environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs. In addition to potentially increasing the cost of our environmental liabilities, changing environmental laws and regulations may increase our future compliance costs, such as the costs of complying with ozone standards, emission standards with regard to our reciprocating internal combustion engines on our pipeline systems, GHG reporting and potential mandatory GHG emissions reductions. Future environmental compliance costs relating to GHGs associated with our operations are not yet clear. For a further discussion on GHGs, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Commitments and Contingencies. Although it is uncertain what impact legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions might have on us until further definition is provided in those forums, there is a risk that such future measures could result in changes to our operations and to the consumption and demand for natural gas and oil. Changes to our operations could include increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities, (iii) construct new facilities, (iv) acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our GHG and other emissions, and (v) administer and manage an emissions program for GHG and other emissions. Changes in regulations, including adopting new standards for emission controls for certain of our facilities, could also result in delays in obtaining required permits to construct or operate our facilities. While we may be able to include some or all of the costs associated with our environmental liabilities and environmental compliance in the rates charged by our pipelines and in the prices at which we sell natural gas and oil, our ability to recover such costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations and legislation. 42 Table of Contents Costs of litigation matters and other contingencies could exceed our estimates. We are involved in various lawsuits in which we or our subsidiaries have been sued (see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 13). We also have other contingent liabilities and exposures. In addition, we have significant benefit plan obligations that could be negatively impacted by changes that might arise out of potential health care and pension reform legislation. Although we believe we have established appropriate reserves for these liabilities, we could be required to set aside additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. Risks Related to Our Liquidity We have significant debt and below investment grade credit ratings, which have impacted and will continue to impact our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have significant debt, debt service and debt maturity obligations. The ratings assigned to El Paso’s senior unsecured indebtedness are below investment grade, currently rated Ba3 with a stable outlook by Moody’s Investor Service and BB- with a negative outlook by Standard & Poor’s. These ratings have increased our cost of capital and our operating costs. There is a risk that these credit ratings may be adversely affected in the future as the credit rating agencies continue to review our leverage, liquidity and credit profile. Any reduction in our credit rating could impact our ability, as well as the ability of El Paso Pipeline Partners and our pipeline subsidiaries, to access the capital markets. These changes could also impact our cost of capital as well as that of our subsidiaries. As a result of the volatility in the financial markets and the capital commitments of our pipeline group, we have been maintaining greater liquidity levels. However, if commodity prices remain at current levels or continue to decline and our access to capital markets is restricted, then such liquidity levels may not be adequate to manage our business and our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12, for a further discussion of our debt. A breach of the covenants applicable to our debt and other financing obligations could affect our ability to borrow funds and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. Our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants, including debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and fixed charges to EBITDA covenants in our revolving credit agreement, and contain cross default provisions. In light of the volatility in the financial markets and a reduction in access to capital, these covenants may become more restrictive over time. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Additionally, some of our credit agreements are collateralized by our equity interests in EPNG and TGP as well as certain natural gas and oil reserves. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. Adverse general global economic conditions could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity or our share price. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general global economic conditions including recession or economic slowdown. The global economy is experiencing a recession and the financial markets have experienced extreme volatility and instability. In response, over the last year we announced reductions in our capital plan as well as several other actions, including non-core asset sales to address these general economic conditions. Adverse general economic conditions as well as restrictions on the ability of parties to access capital markets could negatively impact our ability to sell assets or obtain partners on certain projects on a timely basis. In addition, such conditions if they persist could negatively impact the amount of proceeds from such sales or joint venture arrangements. 43 Table of Contents If we experience prolonged periods of recession or slowed economic growth in the U.S., demand growth from consumers for natural gas and oil produced and transported by us on our natural gas transportation systems may continue to decrease, which could impact the development of our future expansion projects. Additionally, our access to capital could be impeded and the cost of capital we obtain could be higher. We are subject to the risks arising from changes in legislation and regulation associated with any such recession or prolonged economic slowdown, including creating preferences for renewables, as part of a legislative package to stimulate the economy. In addition, the general volatility in the financial markets and the economy may also affect the return expectations of our investors and could adversely impact the value of our securities. Finally, our pension plans were underfunded at December 31, 2009, due primarily to the recent adverse economic conditions. While we do not currently expect to make additional contributions in 2010, we may be required to make additional pension plan contributions in the future if adverse economic conditions continue. Any of these events, which are beyond our control, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We are subject to financing and interest rate risks. Our future success, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected based on our ability to access capital markets and obtain financing at cost effective rates. This is dependent on a number of factors in addition to general economic conditions discussed above, many of which we cannot control, including changes in: • our credit ratings; • the unhedged portion of our exposure to interest rates; • the structured and commercial financial markets; • market perceptions of us or the natural gas and energy industry; • tax rates due to new tax laws; • our stock price; and • market prices for hydrocarbon products. Although a substantial portion of our debt capital structure has fixed interest rates, changes in market conditions, including potential increases in the deficits of federal and state governments, could have a negative impact on interest rates that could cause our financing costs to increase. Rising interest rates could also negatively impact our investment in El Paso Pipeline Partners as changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors in its units. Our available liquidity could be impacted by decreases in our natural gas and oil reserves under our borrowing base facility of our exploration and production subsidiary. We maintain $1.3 billion of our liquidity through the borrowing base facilities of our exploration and production subsidiary. A downward revision of our natural gas and oil reserves, due to future declines in commodity prices, performance revisions or otherwise, could require a redetermination of the borrowing base and could negatively impact our ability to source funds from such facilities in the future. Our ability to sell assets or obtain partners on projects, to maintain adequate liquidity may be impacted by adverse general economic conditions. We currently are projecting to sell certain assets during 2010. In addition, it is possible that we may be required to sell assets or obtain partners on projects in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. Adverse general economic conditions as well as restrictions on the ability of parties to access capital markets could negatively impact our ability to sell such assets or obtain partners on such projects on a timely basis, as well as negatively impact the amount of proceeds from such sales or joint venture arrangements. 44 Table of Contents Our inability to satisfy all conditions precedent under the transaction with Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) associated with the development, construction and financing of the Ruby pipeline project could require us to pay all amounts owed to GIP under the associated equity and debt instruments. During the third quarter of 2009, we entered into an agreement with GIP, whereby it will invest up to $700 million and acquire a 50 percent indirect interest in our Ruby pipeline project. To the extent that all conditions precedent set forth in the agreements with GIP are not satisfied, including obtaining certain regulatory approvals, obtaining certain financing commitments and completing the pipeline, then we are obligated to repurchase its equity interests and repay all amounts owed under the loan arrangements. These repayment obligations are secured by various interests in Ruby Pipeline Holding Company, L.L.C. (Ruby), Cheyenne Plains Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. (Cheyenne Plains) and our common units held in El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. Adverse economic conditions, as well as restrictions on our ability to access the capital markets could negatively impact our ability to meet such obligations, as well as permit GIP to foreclose on such security interests. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 