ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, including, in particular, forward-looking statements under the headings "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include statements regarding WHX's intent, belief or current expectations with respect to (i) its financing plans, (ii) trends affecting its financial condition or results of operations, and (iii) the impact of competition. The words "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements; however, this Report also contains other forward-looking statements in addition to historical information. Any forward-looking statements made by WHX are not guarantees of future performance and there are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. This means that indicated results may not be realized. Factors that could cause the actual results of the Company in future periods to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following: RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RECENTLY COMPLETED REORGANIZATION WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT WE WILL ACHIEVE PROFITABILITY IN 2007. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in recent years, and our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered in operating a company that has just emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code (see "Item 3 - Legal Proceedings"). In addition, the consolidated financial statements for 6 the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005 have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. Note 1A to such consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 describes a number of conditions concerning the Company's liquidity difficulties, and states that these conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The Company incurred net operating losses of $18.2 million, $34.7 million and $140.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and had negative cash flows from operations of $18.8 million, $5.0 million and $39.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $412.1 million and a working capital deficit of $1.6 million. Additionally, the Company has not been in compliance with certain of its bank covenants and has been required to obtain a number of waivers from its lenders related to such covenants. As of December 31, 2006, WHX and its unrestricted subsidiaries had cash of approximately $0.8 million and current liabilities of approximately $7.5 million, including $5.1 million of mandatorily redeemable preferred shares payable to a related party. WHX is a holding company and has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating subsidiaries, H&H and Bairnco, or other discrete transactions. H&H's bank credit facilities and term loans effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets to WHX (with the exception of an unsecured loan for required payments to the pension plan, and for other uses of an unsecured loan in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3.5 million under certain conditions), and are collateralized by substantially all of H&H's assets. Bairnco's revolving credit facility ("Bairnco Revolving Credit Facility") permits distributions by Bairnco to WHX under certain conditions. WHX has no bank credit facility of its own. WHX's ongoing operating cash flow requirements consist of funding the minimum requirements of the WHX Pension Plan and paying other administrative costs. H&H's availability under its revolving credit facility and other facilities as of December 31, 2006 was $19.1 million, and as of March 31, 2007, was approximately $15.5 million. On March 29, 2007, all such facilities, including the term loans, were amended to (i) redefine EBITDA, (ii) reset the levels and amend certain of the financial covenants, (iii) extend the termination date of the credit facilities from March 31, 2007 to June 30, 2008, (iv) permit the extension by H&H to WHX of an unsecured loan for required payments to the pension plan, under certain conditions, and (v) permit the extension by H&H to WHX of an unsecured loan for other uses in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3.5 million under certain conditions. The amendments also provided for waivers of certain events of default existing as of March 29, 2007. In connection with the closing of the Offer and the Merger on April 24, 2007, Bairnco became a wholly-owned subsidiary of WHX. Initial financing was provided by Steel through two facilities in the approximate aggregate amount of $101.5 million. In addition, the Bairnco Revolving Credit Facility was amended to permit the closing of the Merger and related financing transactions. The availability under the Bairnco Revolving Credit Facility on March 31, 2007 was approximately $12.0 million. The Bairnco Revolving Credit Facility permits distributions by Bairnco to WHX under certain conditions. In addition to the obligations under the current credit facilities, the Company also has significant cash flow obligations, including without limitation the amounts due to the WHX Pension Plan (as amended by the IRS Waiver and the PBGC Settlement Agreement entered into December 28, 2006). There can be no assurance that the funds available from operations and under its credit facilities will be sufficient to fund debt service costs, working capital demands and environmental remediation costs, or that the Company will be able to obtain replacement financing at commercially reasonable terms upon the expiration of the H&H and Bairnco credit facilities in June 2008. Throughout 2005 and 2006, the Company experienced liquidity issues. On March 7, 2005, WHX (the parent company) filed a voluntary petition to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. WHX continued to operate its business and own and manage its properties as a debtor-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court until it emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005. Since emerging from bankruptcy, due to covenant restrictions in H&H's credit facilities, there have been no dividends from H&H to WHX and WHX's sources of cash flow have consisted of: o The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred stock by a newly created subsidiary in October 2005, which was invested in the equity of a public company (Cosine Communications Inc.); and 7 o Partial payment of the H&H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million, which required the approval of the banks participating in the H&H bank credit facilities. Subsequent to this transaction in 2006, the remaining intercompany loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million was converted to equity. o As permitted by the March 29, 2007 Amendment and Waiver to the Loan and Security Agreements, an unsecured loan from H&H for required payments to the pension plan, and for other uses of an unsecured loan in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3.5 million under certain conditions. o A $15.0 million subordinated loan from Steel pursuant to a Subordinated Loan and Security Agreement between WHX, as borrower, and Steel, as lender. WHX used the $15.0 million proceeds of the subordinated loan as a capital contribution to acquire Bairnco. WE SPONSOR A DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL CASH FUNDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE. On September 15, 2006, WHX was required to make a minimum contribution to the WHX Pension Plan for the 2005 plan year in the amount of $15.5 million. However, we did not make that contribution due to liquidity issues. We applied to the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") for a funding waiver for the 2005 plan year, and on December 20, 2006, the IRS granted a conditional waiver of the minimum funding requirements for the 2005 plan year in accordance with section 412 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code and section 303 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") (the "IRS Waiver"). On December 28, 2006, WHX, H&H, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the "PBGC") entered into the PBGC Settlement Agreement in connection with the IRS Waiver and certain other matters. The IRS Waiver is subject to certain conditions, including a requirement that the Company meet the minimum funding requirements for the WHX Pension Plan for the plan years ending December 31, 2006 through 2010, without applying for a waiver of such requirements. The PBGC Settlement Agreement and related agreements include the following: (i) the amortization of the waived amount of $15.5 million (the "Waiver Amount") over a period of five years, (ii) the PBGC's consent to increase borrowings under H&H's senior credit facility to $125 million in connection with the closing of an acquisition (iii) the resolution of any potential issues under Section 4062(e) of ERISA, in connection with the cessation of operations at certain facilities owned by WHX, H&H or their subsidiaries, and (iv) the granting to the PBGC of subordinate liens on the assets of H&H and its subsidiaries, and specified assets of WHX, to collateralize WHX's obligation to pay the Waiver Amount to the WHX Pension Plan and to make certain payments to the WHX Pension Plan in the event of its termination. As a result of the PBGC Settlement Agreement and the IRS Waiver, based on estimates from WHX's actuary, the Company expects its minimum funding requirement for the specific plan year and the amortization of the 2005 requirement to be $13.1 million (paid in full in 2006), $10.8 million, $11.0 million, $8.9 million, $7.0 million and $2.3 million (which amounts reflect the recent passage of the Pension Protection Act of 2006) in 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our pension benefit costs are developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Material changes in our pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in market conditions not consistent with the assumptions, changes in assumptions, or other changes such as a plan termination, in which case there may be additional claims related to payment for unfunded liabilities. H&H'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY VARIATIONS IN INTEREST RATES. The H&H credit facilities are collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, and property, plant and equipment. These credit facilities are variable rate obligations which expose H&H to interest rate risks. WARREN G. LICHTENSTEIN, OUR CHAIRMAN, AND CERTAIN OTHER OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, THROUGH THEIR AFFILIATION WITH STEEL PARTNERS II, L.P., HAS THE ABILITY TO EXERT SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER OUR OPERATIONS. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman, as the sole managing member of the general partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., is also deemed to own beneficially the shares of our common stock owned by Steel Partners II, L.P. Steel Partners II, L.P. beneficially owns 5,029,793 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 50.3% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Lichtenstein, as sole managing member and the general partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., has sole investment and voting control over the shares beneficially owned by Steel Partners II, L.P. and thus has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of any action requiring a stockholder vote, such as amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, as well as matters where the interests of Mr. Lichtenstein and Steel Partners II, L.P. may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, employees of an affiliate of Steel Partners II, L.P. hold positions with WHX, including Glen M. Kassan as Chief Executive Officer and John J. Quicke as Vice President, and as directors. 8 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSES IN MANY CASES, H&H'S COMPETITORS ARE LARGER THAN US AND HAVE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES GREATER THAN WE DO, WHICH MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON H&H'S BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. There are many companies, both domestic and foreign, which manufacture tubing products and other specially engineered products of the type H&H manufactures. There are also a number of competitors in each of the classes of precious metal products we sell. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have financial resources greater than we do. Some of these competitors enjoy certain other competitive advantages, including greater name recognition; greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; a larger installed base of customers; and well-established relationships with current and potential customers. Competition is based on quality, technology, service, and price and in some industries, new product introduction, each of which is of equal importance. H&H may not be able to compete successfully and competition may have a negative impact on its business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices, and accordingly reducing its revenues and profits. H&H'S PROFITABILITY MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE COST OF RAW MATERIALS. H&H is exposed to market risk and price fluctuation related to the purchase of natural gas, electricity, precious metals, steel products and certain non-ferrous metals used as raw materials. Its results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which either the prices of such commodities are unusually high or their availability is restricted. H&H holds precious metal positions that are subject to market fluctuations. Precious metal inventory is included in inventory using the last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting. H&H enters into forward or future contracts with major financial institutions to reduce the economic risk of price fluctuations. H&H'S BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. H&H operates in a wide range of manufacturing businesses that serve customers in the construction, electric, electronic, home appliance OEM, automotive, refrigeration, utility, telecommunications, medical and energy related industries. As a result, H&H's results of operations tend not to be disproportionately affected by any one industry or segment, but tend to be affected by general economic conditions and other factors worldwide, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor costs and other factors beyond its control. The demand for H&H's customers' products and, therefore, H&H's products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR MAJOR CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT H&H'S REVENUES AND FINANCIAL HEALTH. In 2006, H&H's 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 27% of its consolidated net sales. If H&H were to lose any of its relationships with these customers, its revenues and profitability could fall significantly. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY INCLUDES SELECTIVE ACQUISITIONS AND ACQUISITIONS ENTAIL NUMEROUS RISKS. Our business strategy includes, among other things, strategic and selective acquisitions. See Item 1 - "Business - Recent Developments." This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, whether or not we are successful in finding acquisitions, and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt. In addition, once found, acquisitions entail further risks, including: unanticipated costs, including environmental liabilities that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; and negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. H&H'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE COULD BE REDUCED IF ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR RELATED PROPRIETARY MANUFACTURING PROCESSES BECOME KNOWN BY ITS COMPETITORS OR IF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES REDUCE H&H'S CUSTOMERS' NEED FOR ITS PRODUCTS. H&H owns a number of trademarks and patents (in the United States and other jurisdictions) on its products and related proprietary manufacturing processes. In addition to trademark and patent protection, H&H relies on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that it seeks to protect. If H&H's intellectual property is not properly protected by it or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, its protection against competitive products could be diminished. H&H COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS, INCLUDING REMEDIATION COSTS, AS A RESULT OF COMPLYING WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS. H&H's facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, foreign and local authorities relating to the protection of the environment. It could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. H&H has incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the 9 contamination detected at sites owned or operated by it (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which H&H disposed of hazardous substances. As of December 31, 2006, we have established a reserve totaling $9.4 million with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. This $9.4 million reserve may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of remediation, including discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations which could result in significant additional costs. In addition, H&H expects that future regulations, and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations, may subject it to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary for H&H to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps, which may be at a substantial cost to H&H. FACTORS AFFECTING THE VALUE OF SECURITIES ISSUED UNDER THE PLAN OF REORGANIZATION THERE IS NO ESTABLISHED MARKET FOR OUR COMMON STOCK. No established market exists for our common stock. Our common stock is presently quoted on the pink sheets. Following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other delinquent periodic reports due under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we anticipate that our new common stock will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we expect to cooperate with any registered broker-dealer who may seek to initiate price quotations for our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board. Again, however, no assurance can be made that such securities will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or that an active trading market will exist. There can be no assurance as to the degree of price volatility in any market for our common stock that does develop. Transfer restrictions contained in our charter to help preserve our net operating loss carryovers will generally prevent any person from rapidly acquiring amounts of our common stock such that such person would hold 5% or more of our common stock, in each case for up to ten years after July 29, 2005, as specifically provided in our charter. These transfer restrictions could hinder development of an active market for our common stock. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE WHICH MAY LIMIT INVESTOR DEMAND. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Such lack of dividend prospects may have an adverse impact on the market demand for our common stock as certain institutional investors may invest only in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our common stock. 