ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this report, the following factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and prospects. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS GENERALLY WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America on a going concern basis, which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities in the normal course of business. Accordingly, the consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability of assets and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. However, for the reasons described below, Company management does not believe that cash on hand and cash flow generated internally by the Company will be adequate to fund its limited overhead and other cash requirements beyond a short period of time. These reasons raise significant doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. During its recent past, the Company was able to continue operating as a going concern due principally to funding of $500 thousand received during 2008 under a Revolving Loan Agreement with an entity controlled by Michael S. Egan, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (See Note 6, “Debt” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details) and proceeds of approximately $421 thousand received during 2009 under an Earn-out Agreement with an entity also controlled by Mr. Egan (See Note 3, “Sale of Tralliance and Share Issuance” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). At December 31, 2009, the Company had a net working capital deficit of approximately $3.1 million. Such working capital deficit included (i) a total of approximately $573 thousand in principal and accrued interest owed under the aforementioned Revolving Loan Agreement; (ii) a total of $120 thousand in management service fees owed under a Master Services Agreement to an entity controlled by Mr. Egan, and (iii) an aggregate of approximately $2.4 million in unsecured accounts payable and accrued expenses owed to vendors and other non-related third parties (of which approximately $1.7 million relates to liabilities of our VoIP telephony service discontinued business, with a significant portion of such liabilities related to charges which have been disputed by theglobe). theglobe believes that its ability to continue as a going concern for any significant length of time in the future will be heavily dependent, among other things, on its ability to prevail and avoid making any payments with respect to such disputed vendor charges and/or to negotiate favorable settlements (including deeply discounted payment and/or payment term concessions) with the aforementioned creditors. As more fully discussed in Note 3, “Sale of Tralliance and Share Issuance,” on September 29, 2008, the Company (i) sold the business and substantially all of the assets of its Tralliance Corporation subsidiary to Tralliance Registry Management, and (ii) issued 229 million shares of its Common Stock (the “Shares”) to Registry Management (the “Purchase Transaction”). Tralliance Registry Management and Registry Management are entities controlled by Michael S. Egan. The closing of the Purchase Transaction resulted in the cancellation of all of the Company’s remaining Convertible Debt, related accrued interest and rent and accounts payable owed to entities controlled by Mr. Egan as of the date of closing (totaling approximately $6.4 million). However, the Company continues to be obligated to repay its principal borrowings totaling $500 thousand, plus accrued interest at the rate of 10% per annum (approximately $73 thousand as of December 31, 2009), due to an entity controlled by Mr. Egan under the aforementioned Revolving Loan Agreement. All unpaid borrowings under the Revolving Loan Agreement, as amended on May 7, 2009 (See Note 6, “Debt”), including accrued interest, are due and payable by the Company in one lump sum on the earlier of (i) five business days following demand for payment, which demand can be made at anytime, or (ii) the occurrence of an event of default as defined in the Revolving Loan Agreement. The Company currently has no ability to repay this loan should a demand for payment be made by the noteholder. All borrowings under the Revolving Loan Agreement are secured by a pledge of all of the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries. After giving effect to the closing of the Purchase Transaction and the issuance of the Shares thereunder, Mr. Egan beneficially owns approximately 76% of the Company’s Common Stock at December 31, 2009. 4 As additional consideration under the Purchase Transaction, Tralliance Registry Management is obligated to pay an earn-out to theglobe equal to 10% (subject to certain minimums) of Tralliance Registry Management’s net revenue (as defined) derived from “.travel” names registered by Tralliance Registry Management from September 29, 2008 through May 5, 2015 (the “Earn-out”). The minimum Earn-out payable by Tralliance Registry Management to theglobe was $300 thousand in the first year of the Earn-Out, and will increase by $25 thousand in each subsequent year (pro-rated for the final year of the Earn-out). In connection with the closing of the Purchase Transaction, the Company also entered into a Master Services Agreement with an entity controlled by Mr. Egan whereby for a fee of $20 thousand per month ($240 thousand per annum) such entity will provide personnel and services to the Company so as to enable it to continue its existence as a public company without the necessity of any full-time employees of its own. Additionally, commensurate with the closing of the Purchase Transaction, Termination Agreements with each of its current executive officers, which terminated their previous and then existing employment agreements, were executed. Notwithstanding the termination of these employment agreements, each of our current executive officers and directors remain as executive officers and directors of the Company. Immediately following the closing of the Purchase Transaction, theglobe became a shell company with no material operations or assets, and no source of revenue other than under the Earn-out. It is expected that theglobe’s future operating expenses as a public shell company will consist primarily of expenses incurred under the aforementioned Master Services Agreement and other customary public company expenses, including legal, audit and other miscellaneous public company costs. As a shell company, management believes that theglobe will most likely continue to incur net and cash flow losses for the foreseeable future. However, assuming that no significant unplanned costs are incurred, management believes that theglobe’s future losses will be limited. Further, in the event that Registry Management is successful in substantially increasing net revenue derived from “.travel” name registrations (and as the result maximizing theglobe’s Earn-out revenue) in the future, theglobe’s prospects for achieving profitability will be enhanced. To date the Company has received only the minimum payments pursuant to the Earn-out. It is the Company’s preference to avoid filing for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. However, based upon the Company’s current financial condition as discussed above, management believes that additional debt or equity capital will need to be raised in order for theglobe to continue to operate as a going concern on a long-term basis. Such capital will be needed both to (i) fund its expected limited future net losses and (ii) repay the $573 thousand of secured debt and related accrued interest due under the Revolving Loan Agreement and the $120 thousand of management services fees due under the Master Services Agreement, and a portion of the approximate $2.4 million unsecured indebtedness (assuming theglobe is successful in favorably resolving and settling certain disputed and non-disputed vendor charges related to such unsecured indebtedness). Any such capital would likely come from Mr. Egan, or affiliates of Mr. Egan, as the Company currently has no access to credit facilities and had traditionally relied upon borrowings from related parties to meet short-term liquidity needs. Any such capital raised would likely result in very substantial dilution in the number of outstanding shares of the Company’s Common Stock. On a short-term liquidity basis, the Company must be successful in collecting the quarterly Earn-out payments contractually due from Tralliance Registry Management on a timely basis, and must receive the continued indulgence of substantially all of its creditors, in order to continue as a going concern in the near term. Given theglobe’s current financial condition and the state of the current United States capital markets and economy, it has no current intent to seek to acquire, or start, any other businesses. WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN SETTLING DISPUTED VENDOR CHARGES. Our balance sheet at December 31, 2009 includes certain material estimated liabilities related to disputed vendor charges incurred primarily as the result of the failure and subsequent shutdown of our discontinued VoIP telephony services business. Although we are seeking to resolve and settle these disputed charges for amounts substantially less than recorded amounts, there can be no assurances that we will be successful in this regard. Additionally, the legal and administrative costs of resolving these disputed charges may be expensive. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could materially and adversely affect our financial position, utilize a significant portion of our cash resources and/or require additional capital to be infused into the Company, and adversely affect our ability to continue to operate as a going concern. See Note 4, “Discontinued Operations” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for future details. OUR NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARDS MAY BE SUBSTANTIALLY LIMITED. As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards which may be potentially available for U.S. tax purposes of approximately $166 million. These carryforwards expire through 2029. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 imposes substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses and tax credits in the event of an "ownership change" of a corporation. Due to various significant changes in our ownership interests, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that occurred prior to December 31, 2008, we have substantially limited the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards. 5 OUR OFFICERS, INCLUDING OUR CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRESIDENT HAVE OTHER INTERESTS; WE HAVE CONFLICTS OF INTEREST WITH OUR DIRECTORS; ALL OF OUR DIRECTORS ARE EMPLOYEES OR STOCKHOLDERS OF THE COMPANY OR AFFILIATES OF OUR LARGEST STOCKHOLDER. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Egan, is an officer or director of other companies. Mr. Egan became our Chief Executive Officer effective June 1, 2002. Mr. Egan is also the controlling investor of The Registry Management Company, LLC, Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., E&C Capital Partners LLLP, and E&C Capital Partners II, LLC, which are our largest stockholders. Mr. Egan is also the controlling investor of Certified Vacations Group, Inc. and Labigroup Holdings, LLC, entities which have had various ongoing business relationships with the Company. Additionally, Mr. Egan is the controlling investor of Tralliance Registry Management Company, LLC, an entity which has recently acquired our Tralliance business (see Note 3, “Sale of Tralliance and Share Issuance” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details). Our President, Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and Director, Mr. Edward A. Cespedes, is also an officer, director or shareholder of other companies, including E&C Capital Partners LLLP, E&C Capital Partners II, LLC, Labigroup Holdings LLC and The Registry Management Company, LLC. Our Vice President of Finance and Director, Ms. Robin Lebowitz is also an officer of Dancing Bear Investments, Inc and director of Certified Vacations Group, Inc. She is also an officer, director or shareholder of other companies or entities controlled by Mr. Egan and Mr. Cespedes, including The Registry Management Company, LLC. Due to the relationships with his related entities, Mr. Egan will have an inherent conflict of interest in making any decision related to transactions between the related entities and us. Furthermore, the Company's Board of Directors presently is comprised entirely of individuals who are executive officers of theglobe, and therefore are not "independent." We intend to review related party transactions in the future on a case-by-case basis. WE CURRENTLY HAVE NO BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND ARE A SHELL COMPANY. Immediately following the closing of the Purchase Transaction, theglobe became a shell company with no material operations or assets, and no source of revenue other than under the “net revenue” earn-out arrangement with Tralliance Registry Management. It is expected that theglobe’s future operating expenses as a public shell company will consist primarily of expenses incurred under the aforementioned Master Services Agreement and other customary public company expenses, including legal, audit and other miscellaneous public company costs. Given theglobe’s current financial condition and the state of the current United States capital markets and economy, the Company has no current intent to seek to acquire, or start, any other business. WE MAY SUFFER ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES IF WE ARE DEEMED AN INVESTMENT COMPANY (DEFINED BELOW) AND WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS TO AVOID INVESTMENT COMPANY STATUS. We believe that we are not an investment company as defined by the Investment Company Act of 1940. If the Commission or a court were to disagree with us, we could be required to register as an investment company. This would negatively affect our ability to consummate a potential acquisition of an operating company, subjecting us to disclosure and accounting guidance geared toward investment, rather than operating companies; limiting our liability to borrow money, issue options, issue multiple classes of stock and debt, and engage in transactions with affiliates; and requiring us to undertake significant costs and expenses to meet disclosure and regulatory requirements to which we would be subject as a registered investment company. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK WE ARE CONTROLLED BY OUR CHAIRMAN. On September 29, 2008, in connection with the closing of the Purchase Transaction more fully described in Note 3, “Sale of Tralliance and Share Issuance,” in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company issued 229 million shares of its Common Stock to Registry Management, an entity controlled by Michael S. Egan, its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Previously on June 10, 2008, Dancing Bear Investments, Inc., also an entity controlled by Mr. Egan, converted an aggregate of $400 thousand of outstanding convertible secured promissory notes due to them by the Company into 40 million shares of our Common Stock. As a result of the issuance of the 269 million shares under the transactions described above, Mr. Egan’s beneficial ownership has been increased to approximately 76% of the Company’s Common Stock. Accordingly, Mr. Egan is now in a position to control the vote on all corporate actions in the future. 6 DELISTING OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAKES IT MORE DIFFICULT FOR INVESTORS TO SELL SHARES. The shares of our Common Stock were delisted from the NASDAQ national market in April 2001 and are now traded in the over-the-counter market on what is commonly referred to as the electronic bulletin board or "OTCBB." As a result, an investor may find it more difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of the securities. The delisting has made trading our shares more difficult for investors. It has also made it more difficult for us to raise additional capital. We may also incur additional costs under state blue-sky laws if we sell equity due to our delisting. OUR COMMON STOCK IS SUBJECT TO CERTAIN "PENNY STOCK" RULES WHICH MAY MAKE IT A LESS ATTRACTIVE INVESTMENT. Since the trading price of our Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share and our net tangible assets are less than $2.0 million, trading in our Common Stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act. Under Rule 15g-9, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons who are not established customers and accredited investors, as defined in the Exchange Act, must satisfy special sales practice requirements, including requirements that they make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser; and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. The Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock Reform Act of 1990 also requires additional disclosures in connection with any trades involving a penny stock, including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated with that market. Such requirements may severely limit the market liquidity of our Common Stock and the ability of purchasers of our equity securities to sell their securities in the secondary market. For all of these reasons, an investment in our equity securities may not be attractive to our potential investors. AS A RESULT OF THE CLOSING OF THE PURCHASE AGREEMENT, WE ARE A SHELL COMPANY AND ARE SUBJECT TO MORE STRINGENT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS AND RULE 144 IS NOT AVAILABLE AS A BASIS OF RESALE. As a result of the consummation of the Purchase Transaction, we have no or nominal operations and assets, and pursuant to Rule 405 and Exchange Act Rule 12b-2, we are a shell company. Applicable securities rules prohibit shell companies from using a Form S-8 to register securities pursuant to employee compensation plans. However, the rules do not prevent us from registering securities pursuant to certain other registration statements. Additionally, Form 8-K requires shell companies to provide more detailed disclosure upon completion of a transaction that causes it to cease being a shell company. To the extent we acquire a business in the future, we must file a current report on Form 8-K containing the information required in a registration statement on Form 10, within four business days following completion of the transaction together with financial information of the private operating company. In order to assist the SEC in the identification of shell companies, we are also required to check a box on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K indicating that we are a shell company. To the extent that we are required to comply with additional disclosure because we are a shell company, we may be delayed in executing any mergers or acquiring other assets that would cause us to cease being a shell company. In addition, the SEC adopted amendments to Rule 144 effective February 15, 2008, which do not allow a holder of restricted securities of a “shell company” to resell their securities pursuant to Rule 144. Preclusion from the use of the exemption from registration afforded by Rule 144 may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 