1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report for a more detailed discussion of some of the factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. We qualify all our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. There are other factors that can and will materially affect our future results. As a result of the foregoing, you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation and do not intend to update any forward-looking statement except as may be required by applicable law. We have a number of trademarks, including DOV, DOV Pharmaceutical, Inc. and the DOV Pharmaceutical logo. All other trademarks used or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective owners. 3 ITEM I. BUSINESS OVERVIEW We are a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of novel product candidates for disorders of the central nervous system, or CNS. We currently have drug development programs that are at the preclinical, Phase I and Phase II clinical stages, including DOV 21,947 (in a Phase II clinical trial for depression), DOV 102,677 (which has completed a Phase I clinical trial) and a preclinical discovery program in reuptake inhibitors and GABA modulators. A key element of our business model is the use of strategic collaborations to accelerate development and mitigate risk. We have sublicensing agreements for the development and commercialization of certain product candidates with XTL Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., or XTL, for bicifadine, with Blue Note Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Blue Note, for DOV diltiazem and with Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc., or Neurocrine, for indiplon. DOV 21,947, is a triple reuptake inhibitor (serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine inhibitor), or TRI, with potential efficacy in the treatment of depression and obesity. We recently initiated a Phase II clinical trial of DOV 21,947 which is expected to enroll approximately 200 patients diagnosed with major depressive disorder. The clinical trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center trial assessing the efficacy and tolerability of DOV 21,947 over a six-week period. We hope to complete the trial as early as the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, if we are able to secure adequate funding we intend on initiating a Phase II clinical trial with DOV 21,947 in obesity in 2009. DOV 102,677 is another of our TRIs, with potential efficacy in the treatment of alcohol abuse for which the next study will be a Phase I clinical trial administering repeat doses to volunteers and may be initiated in 2009 if adequate funding is available. Another lead product candidate, bicifadine, has been shown to be effective in treating pain in three placebo-controlled efficacy trials involving more than 1,600 patients with acute post-surgical pain. XTL has initiated a Phase II clinical trial of bicifadine in patients with diabetic neuropathic pain and has indicated that the results of the trial may be available as early as the fourth quarter of 2008. DOV diltiazem is our product candidate for the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina. Blue Note has advised us that it is conducting a Phase III development program that is expected to culminate in a 505(b)(2) new drug application, or NDA, filing for use in the treatment of hypertension and angina at the end of 2009. Indiplon is our product candidate for the treatment of insomnia. On December 12, 2007 the FDA restated its view that the indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules are approvable but set forth additional requirements: (i) an objective/subjective clinical trial in the elderly, (ii) a safety study assessing the rates of adverse events occurring with indiplon when compared to a marketed product, and (iii) a preclinical study to evaluate indiplon administration during the third trimester of pregnancy. Neurocrine intends to meet with the FDA to discuss these requirements. Neurocrine has reported that it has ceased all indiplon clinical development activities in the U.S. as well as all pre-commercialization activities pending its discussions with the FDA. Our reuptake inhibitor discovery platforms, including TRIs, norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors, serotonin and dopamine reuptake inhibitors, and SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors) involve compounds that are able to treat a wide variety of neuropsychiatric disorders ranging from depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, to pain and obesity. We have preclinical molecules belonging to each of these four classes. The primary objective of our GABA modulator discovery program is the development of compounds producing a robust anti-anxiety action without the side effects associated with benzodiazepines such as diazepam, better known as Valium. At present, only limited activities are being undertaken in relation to the two discovery platforms. 4 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Our goal is to become a leader in the development and commercialization of novel product candidates for the treatment of CNS disorders. Elements of our strategy to achieve this goal include the following: Pursue development of our lead product candidates. We have four product candidates undergoing clinical development either by us or a sublicensee. These product candidates address substantial pharmaceutical markets. We intend to continue to design the clinical programs for our product candidates to provide clear and defined paths to attract strategic collaborators to assist us in clinical development and in attaining regulatory approval. Selectively establish strategic collaborations to assist in the development and commercialization of our products and mitigate financial risk. We have established strategic collaborations and we intend to continue to pursue strategic collaborations with partners to leverage our resources with the development, regulatory and commercialization capabilities of our partners. We currently have sublicensing agreements with XTL for bicifadine, with Blue Note for DOV diltiazem and with Neurocrine, for indiplon. Reduce clinical development risk by building a diversified product portfolio. We have built and intend to continue to build a portfolio of diverse product candidates to address CNS disorders to reduce the risks associated with the clinical development of any one drug. We have focused our development resources on product candidates in all stages of research and clinical development; however in the near term will focus our efforts primarily on the completion of the Phase II clinical trial for DOV 21,947. We focus on developing product candidates with diverse mechanisms of action to limit the risk of difficulties associated with a particular mechanism of action. Finally, a single mechanism of action may have multiple therapeutic uses. We intend to investigate the efficacy of our product candidates for these diverse uses in order to enhance their commercial potential. We believe that our portfolio approach reduces undue dependence on any single product candidate or therapeutic application to achieve commercial success and creates multiple potential sources of revenue. OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES The following table summarizes the status of our product candidates and discovery programs. Product Candidate/ Discovery Program Indication(s) Status(1) Development and Commercialization Rights Clinical DOV 21,947 Depression Phase II DOV Obesity Phase I DOV Bicifadine Pain Phase II/Phase III(2) XTL DOV diltiazem Hypertension and Angina Phase I/III(3) Blue Note DOV 102,677 Alcohol Abuse Phase I(4) DOV Preclinical DOV 216,419 Depression and Pain Pre-IND(5) DOV Uptake inhibitors Various CNS Disorders Discovery DOV GABA modulators Various CNS Disorders Discovery DOV Program Subject to Regulatory Review Indiplon: 5mg and 10mg capsules Insomnia FDA has deemed approvable(6) Neurocrine/ Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma (1) For an explanation of the terms Preclinical, IND, Phase I, Phase II and Phase III, please refer to “Government Regulation” in this “Business” section. (2) XTL initiated a Phase II clinical trial in neuropathic pain in September 2007 and expects the results to be available in the fourth quarter of 2008. Bicifadine has been studied in five Phase III clinical trials. (3) Blue Note has advised us that it is conducting a Phase III development program expected to culminate in a 505(b)(2) NDA filing for use in the treatment of hypertension and angina at the end of 2009. (4) We may initiate a Phase I clinical trial administering repeat doses of DOV 102,677 to volunteers in 2009 if adequate funding is available. (5) We may file an IND for DOV 216,419 in the fourth quarter of 2009 and undertake the necessary expenditures to enable initiation of a Phase I clinical trial in the second quarter of 2010 if adequate funding is available. (6) Neurocrine has stated that it has received a letter from the FDA which indicated additional requirements necessary for approval. 5 OUR PRODUCT CANDIDATES UNDER DEVELOPMENT Clinical Development Programs DOV 21,947: Our Triple Reuptake Inhibitor for Depression and Obesity Depression is a disorder in which the affected person experiences a mental state of sadness, despair, discouragement and hopelessness. Other symptoms may include apathy, withdrawal from social contact, an inability to experience pleasure, changes in appetite and sleep patterns, low energy levels, difficulty concentrating and thoughts of suicide. Neurotransmitters regulate numerous functions in the CNS and imbalances in them have been linked to a number of psychiatric disorders, including depression. The actions of these neurotransmitters are terminated by specific transport proteins that remove them from synapses in the brain. Antidepressants are thought to produce their therapeutic effects by inhibiting the uptake activity of one or more of these transport proteins, effectively increasing the concentration and duration of action of these neurotransmitters at their receptors. It is estimated that 19 million people in the U.S. suffer from depression. Depression is typically treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs (such as Prozac and Zoloft) serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors, or SNRIs (such as Effexor or Cymbalta) or buproprion, a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor. Obesity affects tens of millions of adults and children in the U.S. and poses serious long-term threats to their health and welfare. Studies have shown that modest weight loss of as little as 5% of initial body weight can result in a meaningful reduction in the risks associated with obesity, such as diabetes. Currently, pharmaceutical treatment options for obesity are limited. Both preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that a drug inhibiting uptake of all three neurotransmitters, serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine, may produce a faster onset of action or provide greater efficacy than traditional antidepressants. We believe that such a ‘broad spectrum’ antidepressant could represent a breakthrough in the treatment of depression. Moreover, both preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that TRIs are effective in the treatment of obesity given that obesity and depression are often co-morbid conditions. DOV 21,947 is a TRI and is the (+)-enantiomer of DOV 216,303, described below. In animal models considered to be highly predictive of antidepressant action, DOV 21,947 was more potent than Tofranil, an SNRI, and the SSRIs Prozac and Celexa. Because of its ability to inhibit the uptake of all three neurotransmitters implicated in depression, we believe DOV 21,947 may be more effective and have a more rapid onset than other antidepressants. In addition, at doses similar to those active in models predictive of antidepressant action, DOV 21,947 produced a significant weight loss in two animal models of diet-induced obesity and also produced weight loss in an eight-week study in volunteers as described below. Eight phase I studies of DOV 21,947 have been completed and we initiated a Phase II double-blind clinical trial of DOV 21,947 versus placebo in depressed patients in February 2008. In December 2005 in a multiple-dose Phase I clinical trial of DOV 21,947 rashes were noted in several subjects at dose levels (i.e., 450 mg to 600 mg total daily dose) substantially above what is believed to be the therapeutic dose range in depression and obesity for DOV 21,947. 6 In August and September of 2007 we announced the results from a double-blind placebo-controlled Phase I study of DOV 21,947 in 46 volunteers. This eight-week study demonstrated that DOV 21,947 was safe and well-tolerated at doses of up to 150 mg per day. The proportion of subjects with treatment-emergent adverse events was similar in the DOV 21,947 (36%) and the placebo (47%) groups. Adverse events with >3% incidence in both the DOV 21,947 and placebo arms included headache, nausea, diarrhea and dizziness. DOV 21,947 produced statistically significant reductions in both body weight (p<0.006) and plasma triglyceride levels (p<0.015) in drug-compliant subjects compared to placebo. Subjects with detectable (~ 70% of drug-treated subjects) blood levels of DOV 21,947 during at least three of four bi-weekly blood draws were classified as drug compliant. At the end of treatment, the mean difference in body weight change from baseline between the drug-compliant and placebo groups was 4.6 pounds. Following a one week wash-out, the highly significant changes in plasma triglyceride levels and body weight were lost, indicating that these effects were reversible, and related to drug treatment. Phase II Clinical Trial We initiated a Phase II clinical trial of DOV 21,947 in February 2008 which is expected to enroll approximately 200 patients with major depressive disorder. The clinical trial is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-center trial assessing the efficacy and tolerability of DOV 21,947 over a six-week period and is being conducted in Romania and Serbia. The primary endpoint will be the change in the total score on the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale from baseline to end of treatment in efficacy evaluable patients. We expect to complete the trial as early as the fourth quarter of 2008. DOV 216,303, the Parent Compound of DOV 21,947 DOV 21,947 is an optically active compound that is a component of the racemic mixture, DOV 216,303. We completed several Phase I studies and a Phase II efficacy trial using DOV 216,303 in patients with major depressive disorder. The Phase II clinical trial was a randomized, multi-center, double-blind, safety, efficacy and tolerability study with 67 patients and compared 50 mg b.i.d. of DOV 216,303 to 20 mg b.i.d. of citalopram, an SSRI. Patients who completed two weeks of treatment in both the DOV 216,303 and citalopram groups demonstrated reductions from baseline (p<0.0001) in the primary outcome measure, the total Hamilton Depression scores. This trial also showed that DOV 216,303 was generally well-tolerated, with no serious adverse events. DOV 216,303 was originally in development for depression; however as the patented composition of matter claim has expired, there are no ongoing clinical trials of DOV 216,303 and none are planned. We believe that as a racemic mixture containing DOV 21,947, the Phase II trial with DOV 216,303 provides a proof of concept that DOV 21,947 will be effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Bicifadine: Our Novel Analgesic Drugs for the treatment of pain, or analgesics, have historically been placed into the following general categories: • narcotics or opioids, e.g., morphine, codeine, Demerol and Percodan; • anticonvulsants, antidepressants and other agents used to treat neuropathic pain; and • non-narcotic prostaglandin inhibitors, e.g., aspirin, acetaminophen, ibuprofen and COX-2 inhibitors. The FDA has granted approval for two other classes of compounds for the management of specific types of chronic pain. In the first class, Neurontin, marketed by Pfizer, is an anticonvulsant whose actions on ion channels in neuronal tissue are likely responsible for its therapeutic effects in a certain type of neuropathic pain, such as postherpetic neuralgia. Sharing a similar structure with Neurontin is Lyrica, also marketed by Pfizer, which was approved in December 2004 for the management of neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and postherpetic neuralgia. In the second class, Cymbalta, marketed by Eli Lilly and Co., was granted approval in September 2004 for the management of diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. Cymbalta’s mechanism of action is believed to result from the inhibition of the uptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in nerve cells, properties also possessed by bicifadine. 7 Bicifadine, our product candidate for the treatment of pain, was licensed by us from Wyeth Holdings Corporation, or Wyeth, in 1998 and sublicensed to XTL in 2007. Bicifadine’s primary pharmacological action is to enhance and prolong the actions of norepinephrine and serotonin by inhibiting the transport proteins that terminate the physiological actions of the two biogenic amines. Preclinical studies with bicifadine indicate this molecule possesses additional neurochemical properties that may contribute to its analgesic effects. Preclinical studies and clinical trials indicate that either one or a combination of these individual actions may account for the analgesic properties of bicifadine. Bicifadine is not a narcotic and in preclinical studies has been shown not to interact with opiate receptors. Four Phase I clinical trials and 14 Phase II clinical trials involving more than 1,000 patients have already been conducted by Wyeth or DOV with an IR formulation of bicifadine. In five exploratory double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trials of the IR formulation conducted by Wyeth, bicifadine demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in pain versus placebo, in some cases with an outcome suggesting it might be comparable to or better than positive controls such as codeine. In addition to these trials with the IR formulation, we have conducted numerous trials using the sustained release formulation, a formulation that permits less frequent daily dosing and improves tolerability. These include three placebo-controlled efficacy trials in more than 1,600 patients with acute post-surgical pain, three Phase III clinical trials of bicifadine in chronic lower back pain, and one Phase II trial of bicifadine in osteoarthritis, all of which have provided us with a significant amount of data about the efficacy and safety of the product candidate. XTL Development Plan XTL has stated that it intends to develop bicifadine for the treatment of neuropathic pain - a chronic condition resulting from damage to peripheral nerves. In September 2007, XTL initiated a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II clinical trial comparing 200 mg t.i.d. and 400 mg t.i.d. of bicifadine versus placebo in patients with diabetic neuropathic pain. The Phase II trial is expected to enroll approximately 330 patients and be completed as early as the fourth quarter of 2008. DOV Diltiazem: Our Product Candidate for Hypertension and Angina It is estimated that 50 million, or one in six Americans suffer from hypertension, also known as high blood pressure. More than 16 million Americans are estimated to suffer from chronic stable angina, or angina pectoris, a recurring, severe constricting pain in the chest due to inadequate blood supply to the heart caused by heart disease. It has been established that hypertension is typically greater in the morning, and that angina attacks are more likely to occur during the morning and afternoon hours, peaking in the hours immediately post-waking. Calcium channel blockers, including the generic compound diltiazem, remain a standard of care in the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina and continue to be highly endorsed by the medical community. As a non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blocker, diltiazem is particularly well suited for use in many patients either with, or at risk of, a number of co-existing medical conditions. Although comparative studies have demonstrated equivalent anti-angina effects for many marketed calcium channel blockers, a lower incidence of side effects with diltiazem has often been reported in these studies. DOV diltiazem, our proprietary formulation of diltiazem, is our product candidate for the treatment of hypertension and chronic stable angina. We entered into a strategic collaboration with Blue Note in November 2007 for the clinical development and commercialization of DOV diltiazem. DOV diltiazem combines an immediate release component with a controlled release component in order to provide prompt and improved blood levels during the critical morning hours and throughout the day compared to currently marketed diltiazem products. We believe that DOV diltiazem can effectively reduce blood pressure and angina attacks in the morning hours to a significantly greater extent than commercially available products because of its combination of immediate and extended release components. Data from five Phase I trials to date indicate that our patented formulation produces clinically relevant blood levels within 30 minutes of administration and results in higher blood levels in the morning than Tiazac, a popular alternative treatment. In 2004 and 2006, we reached agreement with the FDA’s Cardio-Renal Division on the scope and design of the clinical trials required for submission of an NDA for DOV diltiazem. The FDA agreed that no additional preclinical or toxicology studies would be required for the NDA submission. 8 Blue Note Development Plan Blue Note has advised us that it is conducting a Phase III development program expected to culminate in a 505(b)(2) NDA filing for use in the treatment of hypertension and angina at the end of 2009. DOV 102,677: Our TRI for Alcohol Abuse & Alcoholism Alcohol abuse may be characterized by a failure to fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or home, interpersonal social and legal problems, and/or drinking in hazardous situations. Alcoholism, also referred to as alcohol dependence, is a condition characterized by impaired control over drinking, compulsive drinking, preoccupation with drinking, tolerance to alcohol and/or withdrawal symptoms. Alcohol abuse and alcoholism affects approximately 18 million adults in the U.S. The only FDA approved treatments for alcohol abuse and alcoholism are disulfiram, naltrexone and acamprosate. DOV 102,677 is a TRI is related to DOV 21,947 and DOV 216,303. In a Phase I clinical trial, DOV 102,677 was shown to be safe and well-tolerated at single doses of up to 150 mg. At higher doses, transient abnormal color vision, which was reversible, was observed in the majority of subjects. Results of this Phase I trial and compelling data from animal models of alcohol abuse have led us to identify DOV 102,677 as a product candidate to treat alcohol abuse and alcoholism. We may initiate a Phase I clinical trial administering repeat doses of DOV 102,677 to volunteers in 2009 if adequate funding is available. Preclinical Discovery and Development Programs Our discovery program has been focused on reuptake inhibitors and GABAA receptor modulators for the treatment of CNS disorders. Given the recent reduction in workforce, at present only limited activities are being undertaken in relation to the two discovery platforms. Reuptake Inhibitor Platform Our reuptake inhibitor platform includes TRIs (triple reuptake inhibitors), NEDs (norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), SADs (serotonin and dopamine reuptake inhibitors), and SNRIs (serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors). We believe we can create compounds that are able to treat a wide variety of neuropsychiatric disorders ranging from depression and attention deficit disorder, to pain and obesity through a tailoring process that produces new chemical entities with varying potencies at two (in the case of NEDs, SADs, and SNRIs) or three (in the case of TRIs) transport proteins. For example, we believe NEDs (with a range of potencies to inhibit norepinephrine and dopamine uptake ranging) may offer certain advantages over currently prescribed medications for the treatment of attention deficit disorder. We have reuptake inhibitors from each of these classes. In addition, our reuptake inhibitor discovery program included work to identify second generation bicifadine-like compounds. The pharmacological properties of DOV 216,303 and its potential uses remain under investigation. DOV 216,419, a TRI preclinical product candidate, possesses a unique neurochemical profile, and is structurally distinct from DOV 21,947 and DOV 102,677. In preclinical models, DOV 216,419 exhibits antidepressant-like properties as well as potent analgesic activity. We may file an IND for DOV 216,419 in the fourth quarter of 2009 and undertake the necessary expenditures to enable initiation of a Phase I clinical trial in the second quarter of 2010 if adequate funding is available. GABA Modulator Platform GABAA receptors are classified into biochemically, pharmacologically and functionally distinct receptor subtypes that influence different behaviors such as anxiety, sedation and amnesia. 9 We believe that compounds that selectively act on specific GABAA receptor subtypes produce the desired therapeutic effects in the absence of the undesirable effects associated with traditional GABA modulators such as benzodiazepines. For example, compounds acting at one GABAA receptor subtype may reduce anxiety without sedation, while compounds acting at another GABAA receptor subtype may produce sedation without memory impairment or other undesirable effects associated with acting at other receptor subtypes. Our internal discovery efforts with GABAA receptor modulators have yielded a series of compounds. These new chemical entities are significantly more potent than ocinaplon, the anti-anxiety product candidate we licensed from Wyeth. These compounds appear to function as partial positive allosteric modulators at specific GABAA receptor subtypes that may be involved in the treatment of various anxiety disorders, including generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder. In August 2005, we suspended further dosing in the ongoing Phase III clinical trial of ocinaplon following the occurrence of enzyme elevations in liver function tests. Based upon the data, in October 2005 we discontinued the development of ocinaplon for generalized anxiety disorder but continue to explore other potential uses. Program Subject to Regulatory Review Indiplon: Our Product Candidate for Insomnia Insomnia affects an estimated 86 million adults in the U.S. who report trouble sleeping a few nights per week or more, according to a 2006 report from Mattson Jack (an epidemiological database). Mattson Jack also reports that an estimated 26 million adults in the U.S. experience chronic insomnia, having trouble sleeping every night or almost every night. During the late 1980s, a class of drugs known as non- benzodiazepines was developed to target a specific population of GABAA receptors. The non- benzodiazepines are believed to produce a reduced incidence of side effects attributable to the non- benzodiazepines binding more selectively than the benzodiazepines to a specific GABAA receptor subtype. The most commonly prescribed of the non- benzodiazepines in the U.S. are Ambien, Ambien CR, Sonata and Lunesta. Indiplon, our insomnia product candidate was licensed from Wyeth and sublicensed to Neurocrine in 1998. In October 2007, Neurocrine announced an exclusive license agreement with Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma to develop and commercialize indiplon in Japan. Indiplon is a non-benzodiazepine GABAA receptor agonist which acts via the same mechanism as the currently marketed non-benzodiazepine therapeutics. Neurocrine filed NDAs with the FDA for both indiplon capsules and indiplon tablets and on May 15, 2006, Neurocrine received two responses from the FDA. These responses indicated that indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules were approvable and that the 15mg tablets were not approvable. For indiplon tablets, the FDA requested that Neurocrine reanalyze certain safety and efficacy data and questioned the sufficiency of the objective sleep maintenance clinical data with the 15mg tablet in view of the fact that the majority of the indiplon tablet studies were conducted with doses higher than 15mg. Neurocrine met with the FDA to discuss the actions needed to bring indiplon tablets from not approvable to approval. The FDA has requested additional long-term safety and efficacy data with the 15mg dose for the adult population and the development of a separate dose for the elderly population. Neurocrine resubmitted the NDA for indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules seeking clearance to market indiplon capsules for the treatment of insomnia. In December 2007 the FDA restated its view that the indiplon 5mg and 10mg capsules are approvable but set forth additional requirements: (i) an objective/subjective clinical trial in the elderly, (ii) a safety study assessing the rates of adverse events occurring with indiplon when compared to a marketed product, and (iii) a preclinical study to evaluate indiplon administration during the third trimester of pregnancy. Neurocrine, which has since announced that it intends to meet with the FDA to discuss these requirements, also reported that it has ceased all indiplon clinical development activities in the U.S. as well as all pre-commercialization activities pending its discussions with the FDA. 10 The preceding descriptions of Neurocrine’s clinical development and clinical trial results for indiplon are based solely on Neurocrine’s public disclosures through March 5, 2008. Strategic Collaborations and Licensing Agreements XTL Development, Inc. In January 2007, we granted XTL the exclusive right to develop products incorporating bicifadine for the treatment of human diseases, disorders and conditions, except for treatment of symptoms in certain areas of women’s health. XTL agreed to fund future research, development, manufacturing and commercialization costs of bicifadine. We received an up-front payment of $6.5 million, of which $5.0 million was paid to Wyeth as a result of the acceleration of a milestone. We also paid Elan $500,000 pursuant to a pre-existing agreement with them. XTL later made an additional $1.0 million payment to DOV upon the successful transfer to XTL of an existing IND and certain program documentation. Total up-front and milestone payments by XTL under the agreement could reach $130.0 million if all milestones are achieved, with escalating low double-digit royalties on annual net sales of bicifadine. However, we recently reached agreement with a small group of private investors for a partial monetization of the bicifadine royalty stream, which, if it closes, would re-direct a substantial portion of any royalties payable to us to these private investors. XTL can elect to make certain non-royalty payments, including milestone payments, to us in registered shares of common stock of its parent company, XTL Biopharmaceuticals Ltd. Blue Note Pharmaceuticals, Inc. In November 2007, we granted Blue Note the exclusive right to develop and market products incorporating DOV diltiazem for the management of hypertension and/or angina, as well as other indications. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front payment of $500,000, and we are entitled to additional milestone payments of up to $5.7 million. In addition, we will be entitled to receive up to double-digit royalties on future net sales if the product candidate is successfully commercialized. Neurocrine Biosciences, Inc. In June 1998, we sublicensed indiplon to Neurocrine on an exclusive, worldwide basis for ten years or, if later, the expiration of any patent covering either the compound or the marketed product, currently 2023. Neurocrine is responsible for the research, development and commercialization of indiplon. At the end of the term, Neurocrine will have a fully-paid, royalty-free license to the compound and the marketed product. During the term of the agreement, we are entitled to receive a royalty of 3.5 percent of net sales for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents and Neurocrine patents covering indiplon in such country and a period of the first ten years post launch in a given market, if any, and an additional net milestone payment of $1.5 million upon FDA approval. In October 2007, we amended our agreement with Neurocrine, in connection with which we received $1.0 million. Among other things, this amendment modified certain of the milestone provisions of the agreement by a reduction of $1.0 million and provided that certain royalties payable to us under the agreement may be prepaid upon the occurrence of specified future events. The original milestone due to us of $1.5 million has been reduced to $500,000. Wyeth Holdings Corporation In May 1998, we licensed bicifadine, indiplon, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 from Wyeth, on an exclusive, worldwide basis, for all indications. We have the right to develop and commercialize these compounds, including the right to grant sublicenses to third parties, subject to Wyeth's right of first refusal. 11 In December 2006, we replaced the original agreement, as amended, with three separate and distinct license agreements. Under the amended licensing agreements, we gained an exclusive license to certain additional Wyeth intellectual property to allow us to develop products incorporating the licensed compounds for the treatment of human diseases, disorders and conditions, except for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in women. We granted to Wyeth an exclusive license to certain DOV intellectual property to allow Wyeth to develop products incorporating the compounds for the treatment of vasomotor symptoms in women, provided that the parties agreed to negotiate to jointly develop and commercialize any such products. Pursuant to these agreements, we are obligated to pay Wyeth royalties of 3.5 percent of net sales for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and 5.0 percent of net sales for bicifadine, and milestones of $2.5 million each for ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 and $5.0 million for bicifadine upon NDA filing, and $4.5 million each for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 upon an NDA approval. The royalty rate for bicifadine, ocinaplon and DOV 216,303 will increase by 0.5 percent should we partner or sublicense the compound. In addition, should we partner or sublicense a compound, the next milestone payable to Wyeth for that compound will be accelerated. Upon sublicensing DOV 216,303 to Merck in August 2004 and bicifadine to XTL in January 2007, we paid the $5.0 million and $2.5 million due upon the acceleration of the milestones. In addition, we are obligated to pay milestones of $2.25 million upon NDA (or its equivalent) approval in the U.S., Europe or Japan for any product containing DOV 21,947 or DOV 102,677, but only if such milestone becomes payable prior to payment of the $4.5 million milestone payable on an NDA (or its equivalent) approval for DOV 216,303. Any milestone payments made with respect to DOV 21,947 or DOV 102,677 will reduce DOV's remaining $4.5 million milestone obligation for DOV 216,303. If Wyeth terminates any of these licenses upon an uncured breach, we must transfer to Wyeth all information, data and know-how relating to the products and any government authorizations, in addition to our rights derived from our sublicensees with regard to the products. The agreements expire as to each compound for the later of the expiration of the Wyeth patents in such country and a period of ten years following the launch of each compound in each country. Upon such expiration, with respect to each country we will have a fully paid, royalty-free license with the right to make, use or sell the compounds without any further monetary obligation to Wyeth. Elan Corporation, plc and Elan International Services, Ltd. In January 1999, we and Elan established a joint venture to develop controlled release formulations of bicifadine for the treatment of pain, and ocinaplon for the treatment of anxiety disorders and epilepsy. In October 2003, we and Elan terminated the joint venture and Elan granted to us a non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide license to make and sell the two product candidates in controlled release formulations using the Elan intellectual property originally licensed to the joint venture, as well as that developed during the venture. In connection with the license, Elan is entitled to receive up to $3.0 million if and when any of these products are licensed or come to market, of which $500,000 was paid in January 2007 as a result of our sublicense agreement with XTL. Biovail Laboratories Incorporated and Biovail In January 2001, we entered into a license agreement with Biovail to develop, manufacture and market DOV diltiazem. In March 2003, we and Biovail terminated the license agreement. The termination agreement provided for the return to us of the patent license covering DOV diltiazem, a $1.0 million payment by us to Biovail, and future contingent payments to Biovail of $3.0 million upon issuance of marketing authorization for the drug and up to an additional $7.5 million based upon sales, if any. Merck & Co. In August 2004, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Merck & Co., or Merck, for the worldwide development and commercialization of DOV 21,947 for all therapeutic indications, and of DOV 216,303 for the treatment of depression, anxiety and addiction. The license agreement was later terminated by the parties effective December 2006, as a result of which we regained all rights to the compounds, including the use of results of studies performed by Merck. There were no payments due to or from Merck upon this termination. 12 Patents and Proprietary Rights Our Patents We have accumulated a sizeable portfolio of patents and patent applications in the course of our research, which we believe constitutes a very valuable business asset. Some of these patents relate to our clinical product candidates, while others relate to our preclinical product candidates. Still others relate to our technologies and other discoveries for which no product candidate has yet been identified. While the issuance of a patent does not in itself assure us that our intellectual property rights will remain secure, we believe that we have taken all reasonable steps necessary to protect our technologies and inventions from misappropriation by others. More than 150 patents and patent applications have either been issued or filed in the U.S. and major foreign markets. Our Trade Secrets We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets, and we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technology, or that we can meaningfully protect such rights. We require our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisers to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreement provides that all inventions conceived by such employees shall be our exclusive property. There can be no assurance, however, that these agreements will provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies for our trade secrets in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of such information. Third Party Rights Our success also depends in part on our ability to gain access to third party patent and proprietary rights and to operate our business without infringing on third party patent rights. We may be required to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from third parties to develop, manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. Licenses required under third-party patents or proprietary rights may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we do not obtain the required licenses, we could encounter delays in product development while we attempt to redesign products or methods or we could be unable to develop, manufacture or sell products requiring these licenses. Manufacturing We intend to continue to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities of our product candidates for use in our preclinical studies and clinical trials. We also intend to rely on third-party contract manufacturers to produce sufficient quantities for large-scale commercialization. In this regard, we have and will continue to engage those contract manufacturers who have the capability to manufacture drug products in amounts required for commercialization. While there are certain risks associated with the use of outside vendors to manufacture our compounds, we believe these are mitigated by the cost savings involved. Marketing and Sales At present we have no need for marketing, sales or distribution capabilities. If and when we have a need for such capabilities, we will need to either acquire or internally develop sales and distribution capabilities, or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services for us, in order to commercialize any of our product candidates. Government Regulation Regulation by government authorities in the U.S. and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and marketing of our proposed products and in our ongoing research and product development activities. All our products will require regulatory approval by government agencies prior to commercialization. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical studies and clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and corresponding regulatory authorities in foreign countries. Various federal and state statutes and regulations also govern or influence testing, manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage and record-keeping related to such products and their marketing. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent substantial compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. 13 Preclinical studies generally are conducted in laboratory animals to evaluate the potential safety and the efficacy of a drug product. In the U.S., drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies to the FDA as a part of an investigational new drug application, or IND, which must become effective before they can begin clinical trials in the U.S. An IND becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA unless the FDA objects to it. Typically, clinical evaluation involves a time-consuming and costly three–phase process. Phase I Refers to closely-monitored clinical trials and includes the initial introduction of an investigational new drug into human patients or normal volunteer subjects. Phase I clinical trials are designed to determine the metabolism and pharmacologic actions of a drug in humans, the side effects associated with increasing drug doses and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness. Phase I trials also include the study of structure-activity relationships and mechanism of action in humans, as well as studies in which investigational drugs are used as research tools to explore biological phenomena or disease processes. During Phase I clinical trials, sufficient information about a drug’s pharmacokinetics and pharmacological effects should be obtained to permit the design of well-controlled, scientifically valid, Phase II studies. The total number of subjects or patients included in a Phase I clinical trial varies, but is generally in the range of 20 to 80. Phase II Refers to controlled clinical trials conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of a drug for a particular indication or indications in patients with the disease or condition under study and to determine the common short–term side effects and risks associated with the drug. These clinical trials are typically well controlled, closely monitored and conducted in a relatively small number of patients, usually involving no more than several hundred patients. Phase III Refers to expanded controlled and uncontrolled clinical trials, also involving patients with the disease or condition under study. These clinical trials are performed after preliminary evidence suggesting effectiveness of a drug has been obtained. They are intended to gather additional information about the effectiveness and safety that is needed to evaluate the overall benefit–risk relationship of the drug and to provide an adequate basis for physician labeling. Phase III trials usually include from several hundred to several thousand patients. The FDA closely monitors the progress of each of the three phases of clinical trials that are conducted in the U.S. and may, at its discretion, re-evaluate, alter, suspend or terminate the testing based upon the data accumulated to that point and the FDA’s assessment of the risk/benefit ratio to the patient. To date we have conducted certain of our clinical trials outside the U.S., where they are monitored by the applicable national regulatory agencies. All clinical trial test design and results, whether the trial is conducted in the U.S. or abroad, are subject to review by the FDA following IND or NDA filings. Once Phase III trials are completed, drug developers submit the results of preclinical studies and clinical trials to the FDA, in the form of an NDA, for approval to commence commercial sales. In response, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if the FDA determines that the application does not meet regulatory approval criteria. This is the registration process. FDA approval may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. Furthermore, the FDA may prevent a drug developer from marketing a product under a label for its desired indications, which may impair commercialization of the product. Similar regulatory procedures must also be complied with in countries outside the U.S. A 505(b)(2) application is a NDA for which one or more of the investigations relied upon by the applicant for approval "were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted". If the FDA approves the NDA, the drug becomes available for physicians to prescribe in the U.S. After approval, the drug developer must submit periodic reports to the FDA, including descriptions of any adverse reactions reported. The FDA may request or require additional trials to evaluate any adverse reactions or long-term effects. 14 In addition to studies requested by the FDA after approval, a drug developer may conduct other trials and studies to explore use of the approved compound for treatment of new indications. The purpose of these trials and studies and related publications is to broaden the application and use of the drug and its acceptance in the medical community. We will have to complete an approval process, similar to the U.S. approval process, in virtually every foreign target market for our products in order to commercialize our product candidates in those countries. The approval procedure and the time required for approval vary from country to country and may involve additional testing. Foreign approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, regulatory approval of prices is required in most countries other than the U.S. We face the risk that the resulting prices would be insufficient to generate an acceptable return to us or our collaborators. Competition Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense and based significantly on scientific and technological factors such as the availability of patent and other protection for technology and products, the ability to commercialize technological developments, and the ability to obtain governmental approval for testing, manufacturing and marketing. We compete with specialized biopharmaceutical firms in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies. A number of companies are engaged in the development of novel drugs for the treatments of CNS disorders. Many if not most of these companies have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Many major pharmaceutical companies have developed or acquired internal biotechnology capabilities or made commercial arrangements with other biopharmaceutical companies. These companies, as well as academic institutions, governmental agencies and private research organizations, also compete with us in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific, technical and professional personnel and consultants. Our ability to compete successfully with other companies in the biopharmaceutical field will also depend to a considerable degree on the continuing availability of capital to us. We are aware of certain products under development or manufactured and commercialized by competitors that are used for the treatment of certain diseases that we have targeted for product development, as well as various other biopharmaceutical products that are likely to compete directly with our product candidates. We expect that our product candidates under development will address major markets. Our competition will be determined in part by the potential indications for which drugs are developed and ultimately approved by regulatory authorities. Additionally, the timing of market introduction of some of our potential products or of competitors’ products may be an important competitive factor. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete preclinical testing, clinical trials and approval processes and supply commercial quantities to market are expected to be important competitive factors. We expect that competition among products approved for sale will be based on various factors, including product efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, availability of reimbursement, patent position, manufacturing capacity and capability, distribution capability and government action. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in any of these areas, and our inability to compete would materially and adversely affect our business prospects. Employees In January 2008, we reduced our professional staff in order to conserve our financial resources and better align our capabilities with our current business strategy. As of March 11, 2008, we had 12 full-time employees and one part-time employee, five of which hold Ph.D., M.D. or equivalent degrees. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining arrangement, and we believe our relationship with our employees is good. Availability of Reports Our Internet website address is http://www.dovpharm.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 15 Our Corporate Information We were incorporated in May 1995 in New Jersey and reincorporated in Delaware in November 2000. Our principal executive office is located at 150 Pierce Street, Somerset, NJ 08873. The telephone number of our principal executive office is (732) 907-3600. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of our business subjects us to a number of significant risks which affect our ability to execute our business strategy and build our business. If any of the events covered by the following risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock will likely decline. Moreover, our actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements as a result of the following factors. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred significant operating loses for the past twelve years, and our cash and cash equivalents are only adequate to fund our operations for the next eight to twelve months. Since our inception in April 1995 through December 31, 2007, we have incurred significant operating losses and, as of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $199.2 million. We expect to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. At December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $9.6 million. We believe that our existing resources will be sufficient to fund our anticipated operating expenses and capital requirements for the next eight to twelve months. There are a number of circumstances, however, which could result in our needing additional capital sooner than anticipated, such as unexpected costs associated with the Phase II clinical trial we are currently conducting in Eastern Europe. We will require additional funding no later than the fourth quarter of 2008 to continue our research and development programs, including preclinical and clinical testing of our product candidates and for operating expenses. We are continually evaluating opportunities to raise additional capital through public or private financing, as well as evaluating prospective business partners, and will continue to do so. However, if adequate capital is not available to us when we need it, and we are unable to enter into some form of strategic relationship that will give us access to additional cash resources, we will be required to even further curtail our operations which would, in turn, further raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Based upon the recent price of our common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board, even if we are able to raise additional capital it is likely that our existing stockholders will experience substantial and permanent dilution. If we raise additional capital in 2008 as we intend, based upon our recent stock price we will almost certainly need to sell a significant amount of equity, whether in the form of new shares of common stock or some other form of convertible security, in order to raise any meaningful amount of capital. Any significant sale of equity securities in any form at these prices will result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders. The prospect of this dilution is likely to continue to have a negative effect on the market price and trading volume of our common stock until such time as an actual financing occurs. Our common stock is currently only quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and the Pink Sheets and we have no research coverage by security or industry analysts. Our inability to trade on the Nasdaq or some other national securities exchange, and the lack of research coverage, has resulted in fewer shares being traded and even greater volatility in our share price, while also causing additional difficulty in raising capital. Our common stock is currently only quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and the Pink Sheets. The inability to trade on a larger and more established market such as the Nasdaq further impairs our ability to raise much needed capital as most institutions invest only in a common stock that is traded on a national securities exchange. Furthermore, the market for shares of common stock in small, thinly capitalized biopharmaceutical companies like ours depends heavily on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not currently have, and may never again obtain, research coverage by securities and industry analysts. If no securities or industry analysts commence coverage of our company, the price and trading volume for our stock will continue to be negatively impacted. 16 Our stock price, which is trading near its all-time low, remains highly volatile and could decline even further. Our stock price, which as of March 15, 2008 was near its all-time low, remains extremely volatile and could decline further. Most recently, following Neurocrine’s announcement regarding yet further delay in the FDA review and approval process for indiplon, our stock price experienced yet another significant decline. Some of the factors that could cause the market price of our common stock to continue to decline include: · adverse regulatory developments and delays, such as the recent delay in the FDA approval of indiplon for commercial sale; · the sale by our stockholders of a significant number of shares due to their concern about any future dilution that might result from our sale of capital stock; · adverse results from either of the pending clinical trials involving our product candidates; · delays in either starting or completing clinical trials as well as unexpected cost increases or other difficulties that can occur once a trial has been started; · disagreements with our strategic partners, including XTL, Blue Note, Neurocrine and Wyeth; · developments or disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights or patent enforcement; or · unexpected changes in senior management. If any of the foregoing risks occur, our stock price is likely to fall and in some cases could expose us to class action lawsuits, such as the several class action lawsuits filed as a result of a decline in the price of our stock following our IPO in 2002. Our future success is now almost entirely dependent upon the successful outcome of pending clinical trials for our lead product candidates. None of our product candidates is currently approved for sale by the FDA or any other regulatory agency, and our product candidates may never be approved for sale. Before obtaining regulatory approval for the sale of our product candidates, the compounds must be subjected to extensive preclinical and clinical testing to demonstrate their safety and efficacy for humans. There are a number of difficulties and risks associated with clinical trials including the following: · after spending a significant amount of time and money conducting preclinical studies, we may discover that a product candidate does not exhibit the desired therapeutic effects in humans; · we may discover that a product candidate causes, or could cause, undesirable and possibly even dangerous side effects; · we may discover that a product candidate, even if safe when taken alone, may interfere with the actions of other drugs taken at the same time such that its marketability is materially reduced; · results may not be statistically significant or predictive of results to be obtained from large-scale, advanced clinical trials; · we or the FDA may suspend or delay initiation of further clinical trials of our product candidates for any number of reasons; · we may be delayed at any stage of the FDA review process. Given the uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the regulatory and clinical trial process, it may not be possible to successfully advance the development of effective and safe, commercially viable products. Given our limited cash resources and difficulty in raising additional capital, if we are unable to successfully develop and commercialize any one or more of our product candidates in the foreseeable future, we are unlikely to be able to continue our operations. 17 By conducting a clinical trial in Eastern Europe for DOV 21,947, we are exposed to a number of risks in addition to those we face conducting trials in more developed countries. Doing business in Eastern Europe involves a number of significant risks which could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition to the difficulties involved with all international business operations, such as currency fluctuations, complicated labor laws and language barriers, conducting clinical trials in Eastern Europe can be particularly difficult. For example, there remains a high degree of political instability in many parts of Eastern Europe, particularly in countries like Romania and Serbia where we are now conducting a clinical trial. The recent declaration by Kosovo of its independence from Serbia has only further aggravated these difficulties. In the event of hostilities between Kosovo and Serbia, or even the threat of such hostilities, our clinical trial could be delayed or suspended indefinitely, it would become more difficult to identify and hire qualified clinical investigators, enrollment would become more costly and less efficient, patients could be unable to complete the trial, and data from the trial could be irretrievably compromised or lost. For these and many other reasons, it is important to recognize the additional risks we face in completing our clinical trial in Eastern Europe. At present we rely almost entirely upon our collaborative partners, XTL, Blue Note and Neurocrine, to develop and commercialize three of our four most advanced product candidates, as well as protect certain of our most valuable intellectual property rights. The successful development and commercialization of three of our four most advanced product candidates depends almost entirely upon the performance of our collaborative partners, XTL, Blue Note and Neurocrine. We do not have any meaningful control over the activities of our collaborative partners and cannot assure you that they will fulfill their obligations on a timely basis, if at all. We have granted our strategic partners many rights as well as certain obligations. These obligations include not just the development and commercialization of our product candidates, but an obligation to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights as well. Any failure on the part of our collaborators to perform or satisfy their obligations to us could lead to delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates and affect our ability to realize product revenues. Disagreements with our collaborators could require or result in litigation or arbitration, which could be time-consuming and expensive. There are a number of circumstances where our ability to collect royalty or milestone payments could be impaired, including a material beach of the agreement or insolvency. If we or our collaborators fail to maintain our existing agreements or establish new agreements as necessary, we could be required to undertake development, manufacturing and commercialization activities solely at our own expense. This would significantly increase our capital requirements and may also delay the commercialization of our product candidates. In less than two years our staffing has been reduced from a high of 111 in 2006 to 13 as of March 11, 2008. As the result of our lack of financial resources, our workforce has been reduced from 111 employees to 13. As a result, our ability to continue many activities has been tremendously impaired, if not eliminated, which in turn may result in further delays in conducting clinical trials as well as increased costs associated with hiring outside consultants. Any delays in the completion of our clinical trials, or unexpected rise in costs due to our reliance on third parties could materially and adversely affect our business. There are a number of risks associated with our use of independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and vendors, many of which could seriously impair our business. We depend almost entirely on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations, or CROs, and third party vendors to assist in the conduct of our clinical trial for DOV 21,947. The investigators are not our employees, and we cannot control the amount or timing of resources that they devote to our program. If independent investigators fail to devote sufficient time and resources to our trial, or if their performance is substandard, it will delay the completion of the clinical trial. The CRO and vendors we contract with to assist with the execution of this clinical trial play a significant role in the conduct of the trial and the subsequent collection and analysis of data. Failure of the CRO and vendors to meet their obligations could adversely affect our clinical trial and potentially harm us in our sublicensing efforts. Moreover, these independent investigators, CROs and vendors may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us, which could harm our competitive position. 18 The success of our business depends upon the members of our senior management team, our scientific staff and our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified scientific, technical and business personnel. As a result of the significant reduction in professional staff, we are now even more dependent on the members of our management team and scientific staff for our business success. The unexpected loss of any of these people could impede the achievement of our development and business objectives. There is intense competition for talented professionals in the scientific fields in which we operate and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the successful development of our product candidates. We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law, which may obligate us to make substantial payments in advance of judicial resolution of entitlement. Given our limited financial resources, these payments could be material and adversely affect our liquidity. We are obligated to indemnify our directors, officers and certain others to the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware corporate law. This can require us, with few exceptions, to indemnify these people against any and all expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts reasonably paid in defense or settlement in connection with an action, suit or proceeding relating to their association with us. Accordingly, we may incur significant expenses to meet these indemnification obligations, including expenses that may ultimately be determined as ineligible for reimbursement and possibly not subject to recovery as a practical matter. In 2007, the board of directors approved the advancement of expenses to a board member related to an inquiry by regulatory authorities into trading in our common stock in April 2006. Given our limited financial resources and high insurance deductible, these expenses could be material in the event this inquiry is not resolved promptly and could adversely affect our liquidity. We may never receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, and even if we can any extended delay during the approval process could materially and adversely affect our ability to commercialize the product. Governmental regulation in the U.S. and foreign countries is a significant factor in the development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates and in our ongoing research and development activities. The process of obtaining these approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal and state statutes and regulations require spending substantial time and financial resources. The regulatory process can be slow, and there are frequently unexpected delays such as the decision of the FDA to request additional information regarding our most advanced product candidate, indiplon. All our other product candidates are in various stages of research and development and we have not yet requested or received regulatory approval to commercialize any product candidate from the FDA or any other regulatory body. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical testing, clinical trials and other approval procedures of the FDA and similar regulatory authorities in foreign countries. The FDA regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of biopharmaceutical products. Securing FDA approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the FDA for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our competitors could develop and market products based on our discoveries, which may reduce demand for our product candidates. To a substantial degree, our success will depend on the following: · our ability to obtain patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates, as well as our ability to preserve our trade secrets; · the ability of our collaborators and licensees to obtain patent protection for their proprietary technologies and product candidates covered by our agreements, as well as their ability to preserve related trade secrets; and · our ability to prevent third parties from infringing upon our proprietary rights, as well as the ability of our collaborators and licensees to accomplish the same. 19 Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development and regulatory approval processes in order to reach the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. Accordingly, we, either alone or together with our collaborators or licensees, intend to seek and enhance patent protection for our proprietary technologies and product candidates. The risk exists, however, that these patents may be unobtainable if granted or subject to attack, or that the breadth of the claims in a patent, if obtained, may not provide adequate protection of our, or our collaborators’ or licensees’ proprietary technologies or product candidates. The patent applications pending and others in preparation covering our product candidates and technologies, even if filed and approved, may not afford us adequate protection against generic versions of our product candidates or other competitive products. We also rely upon unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position, which we seek to protect, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our current and previous collaborators, licensees, employees and consultants. We also have invention or patent assignment agreements with our employees and some of, but not all, our collaborators and consultants. If our employees, collaborators or consultants breach these agreements or common law principles, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or independently discovered by our competitors. In addition, although we own or otherwise have certain rights to a number of patents and patent applications, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability, and third parties may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensees. We cannot assure you how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or if they are challenged in court or in other proceedings. It is possible that a competitor may successfully challenge our patents, or the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or that challenges will result in elimination of patent claims and therefore limitations of coverage. Moreover, competitors may infringe our patents, the patents of our collaborators or licensees, or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To prevent infringement or unauthorized use, we may need to file infringement claims, which are expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the ground that our patents do not cover its technology. In addition, interference proceedings brought by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensees. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. We cannot assure you that we, or our collaborators or licensees, will be able to prevent misappropriation of our respective proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the U.S. The intellectual property of our competitors or other third parties may prevent us from developing or commercializing our product candidates. Our product candidates and the technologies we use in our research may inadvertently infringe the patents or violate the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, other parties conduct their research and development efforts in segments where we, or our collaborators or licensees, focus research and development activities. We cannot assure you that third parties will not assert patent or other intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our collaborators or licensees, with respect to technologies used in potential product candidates. Any claims that might be brought against us relating to infringement of patents could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. In addition, any patent claims brought against our collaborators or licensees could affect their ability to carry out their obligations to us. Furthermore, if a patent infringement suit is brought against us, or our collaborators or licensees, the development, manufacture or potential sale of product candidates claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property may have to stop or be delayed, unless that party is willing to grant certain rights to use its intellectual property. In such cases, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our product candidates. We may not, however, be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we, or our collaborators were able to obtain rights to a third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors potential access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to commercialize some of our potential product candidates or may have to cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. 20 If we fail to compete effectively in many areas, our business and prospect for future success will suffer. The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, particularly in the areas where our four most advanced product candidates are focused: depression, pain, hypertension and angina and insomnia. In recent years, there have been remarkable pharmacological innovations achieved in short periods of time, and it is possible that future discoveries by others could result in our product candidates quickly becoming uncompetitive or even obsolete. We cannot be certain that one or more of our competitors will not receive patent protection that dominates, blocks or adversely affects our product development or business, will not benefit from significantly greater sales and marketing capabilities, or will not develop products that are accepted more widely than ours. The introduction of alternative therapies to our product candidates that offer advantages in efficacy, safety or ease of use would negatively affect the value of our product development efforts. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. In addition, many of these companies have well established positions in the pharmaceutical industry and are therefore better equipped to develop, commercialize and market therapeutics. Even some smaller competitors may obtain a significant competitive advantage over us if they are able to discover or otherwise acquire patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements or merge with larger pharmaceutical companies. Provisions of Delaware law, our charter and by-laws and our stockholders rights plan may make a takeover more difficult. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of directors. Moreover, our stockholders rights plan, adopted in October 2002, commonly called a poison pill, empowers our board of directors to delay or negotiate, and thereby possibly to thwart, any tender or takeover attempt the board of directors opposes. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 