D. Risk Factors This section is intended to be a summary of more detailed discussions contained elsewhere in this annual report. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Our business, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed if any of these risks materializes and, as a result, the trading price of our shares and our ADSs could decline. Risks Relating to our Business We experienced a net loss in recent years in our pro forma consolidated results accounting for the acquisition of TIM Celular and may experience losses in the future. We experienced a net loss in our pro forma consolidated financial statements, accounting for the acquisition of TIM Celular, of R$946.4 million compared to R$1.252.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively and actual losses of R$151.7 million compared to a pro forma loss of R$231.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These losses were principally due to (i) a pro forma operating expense of R$4,168.8 million compared to an expense of R$3,178.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively and an operating expense of R$1,045.5 million compared to a pro forma operating expense of 12 Table of Contents R$902.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, principally due to an increase in our amortization and depreciation expenses, and (ii) a pro forma increase in our financial expenses of R$318.1 million compared to R$173.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively and an increase in our financial expenses of R$86.5 million compared to a pro forma increase in our financial expenses of R$66.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, resulting primarily from an increase in interest expenses. Identification of significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as a result of our implementation of procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. We are evaluating our internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required, and any necessary remediation, in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to TIM Participações for its annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2006. In the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified certain deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We are currently implementing specific remediation plans in order to eliminate such deficiencies or establish compensating controls and we plan to design additional enhanced processes and controls, as necessary, to address any other issues that might be identified in the future through this review. As we are still in the evaluation process, we may identify other conditions that constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, which could impact our ability to comply with Section 404 in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Although we intend to take prompt measures to remediate any such identified significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control structure, measures of this kind may involve significant effort and expense, and any disclosure of such significant deficiencies, material weaknesses or other reportable conditions may result in a negative market reaction. Furthermore, if we are unable to correct any material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal controls in a timely manner, our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information will be adversely affected. This failure could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our securities and expose us to litigation and scrutiny from our investors. We face increasing competition, which may adversely affect our results of operations. The opening of the Brazilian market to competition for cellular telecommunications services has adversely affected our results of operations. Due to additional PCS providers that have commenced operations in recent years, we are facing increased competition throughout Brazil. We compete not only with companies that provide wireless services and trunking, but also with companies that provide fixed-line telecommunications and internet access services, because of the trend toward the convergence and substitution of mobile services for these and other services and a trend of bundling PCS services with internet and other services. As a result, the cost of maintaining our market share has increased while margins have decreased. In the future, we may incur higher advertising and other costs as we attempt to maintain or expand our presence in the market. We also expect to face increased competition from other wireless telecommunications services, such as digital trunking and paging services, because these services are generally less expensive than cellular telecommunications services. In addition, technological changes in the telecommunications field, such as the development of GSM, 3G and mobile satellite services, are expected to introduce additional sources of competition. This increasing competition may increase the rate of customer turnover and could continue to adversely affect our market share and margins. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing and our ability to anticipate and respond to developments in the industry, including new services that may be introduced, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors. Additionally, we may face competitors with greater access to financial resources and capital markets than ours. We cannot predict which of many possible factors will be important in maintaining our competitive position or what expenditures will be required to develop and provide new technologies, products or services. If we are unable to compete successfully, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Anatel is expected to auction bandwidths in the 3.5 and 10.5 GHZ spectrum to provide broadband wireless and fixed telephony services. The auction rules are still under review by Anatel. It is not yet certain if we will be allowed to bid for these bandwidths. Purchasers of these bandwidths may offer services that could compete with our services. We may be unable to respond to the recent trend toward consolidation in the Brazilian wireless telecommunications market. We believe that there has been a trend of consolidation in the Brazilian telecommunications market. Additional joint ventures, mergers and acquisitions among telecommunications service providers are possible in the future. If such consolidation occurs, it may result in increased competition within our market. We may be unable to adequately respond to pricing pressures resulting from consolidation in our market, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not receive as much interconnection revenue as we receive today. Beginning in July 2004, interconnection charges became freely negotiated by telecommunications service providers in Brazil, pursuant to rules issued by Anatel. Subsequently, the interconnection fees we are able to charge has decreased. The prices we are able to charge for interconnection fees may continue to decrease and as a result, we may receive less interconnection revenue than we presently do, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to a temporary settlement agreement relating to interconnection fees entered into by the fixed telephony incumbents (with the exception of Embratel) and the mobile service providers, our interconnection fee paid by other operators when their users access our network to communicate with our users is adjusted by 4.5%, in the case of calls completed by a number registered within that customer’s home registration area (VC-1 calls). Another temporary settlement agreement was entered into by the fixed telephony incumbents (with the exception of 13 Table of Contents Embratel) and the mobile service providers relating to the interconnection fees paid by the fixed telephony incumbents to the mobile service operators in the case of long distance calls, that is VC-2 and VC-3 calls. On March 27, 2006, Anatel issued a decision approving the temporary settlement for the adjustment of VC-2 and VC-3 calls at a rate of 7.99% (and of 4.5% for the interconnection fee due to mobile operators). The temporary settlement agreement establishes that the result of such procedure will not affect the fees received while the temporary settlement agreement was in place. We cannot predict the date on which a final determination will be available nor the effect such determination may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The conversion of our SMC concessions into PCS authorizations, and our ability to comply with such authorizations, may have a significant impact on our business. In December 2002, Tim Sul and TIM Nordeste converted their respective concessions to operate under Cellular Mobile Service (“SMC”) regulations into authorizations to operate under Personal Communications Services (“PCS”) regulations. In addition, TIM Celular and TIM Maxitel operate under PCS authorizations. Anatel imposes a number of minimum quality standards on PCS operators. The SMC regulations differ significantly from the PCS regulations and it has been difficult for us to achieve full compliance with these new regulations. We have been fined by Anatel in several proceedings and are still discussing the penalty imposed in appeals before the agency. We cannot predict the outcome of the Anatel proceedings at this time. Furthermore, we cannot give assurance that we will be able to fully comply with our obligations under the PCS regime or with future changes in the regulations to which we are subject. See “Regulation of the Brazilian Telecommunications Industry—PCS Regulation.” Some of our PCS licenses currently overlap with the licenses of a deemed affiliate. Currently, we hold licenses, including licenses held by TIM Celular, to provide PCS services in Regions I, II and III of the PCS’s general licensing plan and a license held by TIM Celular to provide national long distance services. In turn, the Brasil Telecom Group (“Brasil Telecom”) holds licenses to provide PCS services in Region II of the PCS’s general licensing plan and a license to provide national and international long distance services. The Brazilian regulatory authority, Anatel, prohibits the provision of the same services, by the same legal entity, whether directly or indirectly, in the same Region. Under the broad definition of the expression “directly or indirectly” and considering that our indirect parent, Telecom Italia, also indirectly holds certain equity participations and governance rights in connection with Brasil Telecom, Brasil Telecom may be viewed as our affiliate and controlled by Telecom Italia for regulatory purposes in Brazil, the consequence being that there would currently exist an impermissible overlap between the PCS licenses held by us in Region II and our license to provide national and international long distance services and certain of the licenses held by Brasil Telecom (the “Overlap”). Anatel has determined that the relevant entities of the Telecom Italia Group and Brasil Telecom should find a solution for such Overlap within an 18-month period which expires in October 2006. Absent a negotiated solution, upon expiration of this period, Anatel itself will decide how to resolve the Overlap and the parties could be subject to penalties, which may range from monetary fines to the revocation of the overlapping licenses held by the parties. In an attempt to resolve the Overlap in a commercially acceptable manner, our parent, TIM Brasil, and Brasil Telecom, among other parties, executed on April 28, 2005, a merger agreement and the corresponding merger protocol (protocolo e justificação de incorporação), providing for the merger of Brasil Telecom into TIM Brasil. See “