ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing business environment that involves many risks and uncertainties. The following discussion addresses risks and uncertainties that could cause, or contribute to causing, actual results to differ materially from expectations. In evaluating our business, readers should pay particular attention to the risks and uncertainties described below and in other sections of this report and in our subsequent filings with the SEC. 9 Table of Contents Because Sales Of Our Concur Expense Solutions Account For The Vast Majority Of Our Total Revenues, A Material Decrease In Demand For These Solutions Would Substantially Harm Our Results Of Operations. We generated more than 95% of our total revenues in fiscal year 2005 from our Concur Expense services and software. We expect such services and software to contribute a similar percentage of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance and revenue growth depends upon continued market acceptance of our Concur Expense solutions. Our revenues will decline significantly if, for example, our competitors, some of which have substantially greater resources than us, develop expense management products that achieve greater market acceptance or we do not keep up with technological advancements in software platforms, delivery models or product features. There can be no assurance that our Concur Expense services and software will maintain widespread market penetration or that we will continue to derive significant revenues from such solutions in the future. Because Our Subscription Services Account For Most Of Our Revenues, A Decline In Demand For These Offerings Would Substantially Harm Our Results And Our Stock Price. We generated 74% of our revenues in fiscal year 2005 from our subscription services offerings. We believe that subscription revenues will contribute a similarly large percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, our future performance depends on continued growth in demand for our outsourced services. Our Subscription-based Business Model Continues To Evolve, Which Makes Our Business Operations And Prospects Difficult To Evaluate. We began offering our software on an outsourced basis over the Internet in 1999 and have modified our offerings over time. The relatively short history and continued evolution of our business model makes our prospects difficult to evaluate. Our strategic focus on growing our subscription business contributed to a substantial reduction in our software license revenues in past years. The limited history of our subscription business model makes it difficult to predict whether demand for subscription services will continue. We are also unable to forecast future developments in the market for subscription services generally. We May Not Be Able To Generate Enough Revenues From Our Subscription Services To Cover Our Cost Of Revenues From Our Subscription Services. Providing subscription services requires us to incur costs that are relatively fixed in the short-term, and we may not be able to adjust our expenses quickly enough to offset any potential slowdown in subscription sales. In addition, the time it takes for a customer to implement our subscription services can be unpredictable because the services must be integrated with the customer’s existing systems. Any delays in implementation may prevent us from recognizing subscription revenue for indeterminate periods of time, even when we have already incurred costs relating to the implementation of our subscription services. Further, we may experience unanticipated increases in costs associated with providing our subscription services and software maintenance services to customers over the term of our customer contracts as a result of inaccurate internal cost projections or other factors, which may harm our operating results. Additionally, some of our subscription services contracts contain cancellation provisions, and, if cancelled, could result in us recognizing substantially less revenue than the aggregate value of those contracts over their terms. If a customer cancels or otherwise seeks to terminate a subscription or maintenance agreement prior to the end of its term, or if we are unable to renew such an agreement at the end of its term, our operating results in future periods could be substantially harmed. Consulting Revenues, Which Account For 23% Of Our Total Revenues, May Fluctuate Or Decline. We generated 23% of our revenues for fiscal 2005 from consulting services, which consist of system implementation and integration, data conversion and training. We anticipate that consulting revenues will continue to represent a significant component of our total revenues. Our consulting revenues increased 40.2% in 10 Table of Contents fiscal year 2005 over fiscal year 2004 but such revenues had decreased 20.0% between fiscal years 2003 and 2004 and we expect such revenues to continue to fluctuate on a quarterly basis. The type of risks to which our consulting revenues are subject include, but are not limited to: • the extent sales or upgrades of our subscription services and/or software licenses fluctuate or decline; • third party organizations, such as systems integrators, compete with us for the installation or servicing of our offerings; and • our ability to recruit and train a sufficient number of qualified consulting personnel. We Face Significant Competition From Companies That Have more Resources Than We Do, And If We Fail To Compete Effectively, Our Business Will Suffer. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We face direct competition from independent vendors of expense management services and software, ERP vendors and financial institutions. We face indirect competition from potential customers’ internal development efforts and, at times, reluctance to change their existing paper-based or information technology systems. Many of our direct competitors have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, greater name recognition, and a larger total number of customers for their products and services than we do. Some of our competitors, particularly major financial institutions and ERP vendors, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers as well as with systems integrators and other vendors and service providers. These competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products, than us. In addition, we anticipate the entrance of new competitors. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and change in market share and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We Depend Upon Strategic Relationships With Third Parties And If We Cannot Continue To Sustain And Develop These Relationships, Our Revenues Will Decline. We have strategic reseller and referral relationships with more than 50 leading companies, which allow us to offer products and services to a larger customer base than we can reach through direct sales, telesales, and internal marketing efforts. If we are unable to maintain our existing strategic relationships or enter into additional strategic relationships, we will have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sales, and marketing of our products and services. This would increase our sales and marketing expenses, which were 24% of total revenues in fiscal year 2005, and decrease our revenues. The type of risks associated with our strategic reseller and referral relationships include, but are not limited to: • Our existing strategic referral partners are not obligated to refer any potential customers to us; • some of our strategic partners have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic relationships with our competitors; • many of our strategic partners have multiple strategic relationships, and they may not regard us as significant for their businesses; • our strategic partners may terminate their respective relationships with us, pursue other partnerships or relationships, attempt to develop or acquire products or services that compete with our products or services; and • our strategic partners also may interfere with our ability to enter into other desirable strategic relationships. 11 Table of Contents If Our Customers Have Concerns Over The Scalability Or Security Of Our Products, They May Not Continue To Buy Our Products And Our Revenues Will Decline. If customers determine that our subscription services offerings are not sufficiently scalable, do not provide adequate security for the dissemination of information over the Internet or corporate extranets, or are otherwise inadequate for Internet or extranet use or if, for any other reason, our customers decide not to accept our subscription services for use, our business will be harmed. As part of our subscription services, we receive through the Internet or extranets credit card, employee, and other confidential information, and there can be no assurance that this information will not be stolen or otherwise misappropriated. Our failure to prevent security breaches, or well-publicized security breaches affecting the Internet in general, could expose us to litigation and significantly harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. Privacy Concerns Are Increasing, Which Could Result In Regulatory Changes That May Harm Our Business. Personal privacy has become a significant issue in many of the countries in which we operate. The United States and various other countries have recommended restrictions on, or taken actions to restrict, the use of personal information by those collecting such information. Any new or existing privacy laws, if applicable to our business, could impose additional costs and could limit our use and disclosure of such information. If any such new or existing privacy laws were deemed to apply to us, we may be required to change our activities and revise or eliminate our services, which could impose additional costs and significantly harm our business. Interruption Of Our Operations Could Prevent Us From Delivering Our Products And Services To Our Customers, Which Could Significantly Harm Our Business. Significant portions of our operations depend on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our computer equipment, offices, and hosting facilities against damage from earthquake, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, and other events. We back up software and related data files regularly and store the back-up files at various off-site locations. However, there can be no assurance that a disaster will not interrupt our operations. We have engaged third-party hosting facility providers to provide the hosting facilities and related infrastructure for our subscription services. These hosting facilities are located in several locations in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia. We do not control the operation of these hosting facilities. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a disaster, a decision by one of our hosting providers to close a facility without adequate notice to us, or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We also retain third-party telecommunications providers to provide Internet and direct telecommunications connections for our services. Any of these third-party providers may fail to perform their obligations adequately. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems could result in interruptions in our service and/or litigation. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates. Our business will be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. Our Reported Financial Results May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. are subject to interpretation by various bodies that promulgate and interpret accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. In particular, revenue recognition rules for software and service companies are complex and require significant interpretation by us. Changes in interpretations, or accounting principles or guidance may require us to modify our revenue recognition policies and could affect and our operating results. 12 Table of Contents In the past we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges if our employee stock options were granted with exercise prices equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. However, under a new accounting rule that we are required to apply in fiscal year 2006, the compensation cost relating to share-based payment transactions (such as stock options) must be recognized in our financial statements, with the cost measured based on the estimated fair value of the equity or liability instruments issued. As a result, we expect to record non-cash, stock based compensation expense, which will have a material effect on our results of operations. For example, in fiscal year 2005, had we accounted for stock-based compensation using the new method of accounting, our net income would have been lower by $4.8 million. Compliance With New Regulations Governing Public Company Corporate Governance And Reporting Is Uncertain And Expensive. Many new laws, regulations, and standards, notably those adopted in connection with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have increased the scope, complexity, and cost of corporate governance, reporting, and disclosure practices and have created uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new laws, regulations, and standards are subject to interpretations due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory bodies. This may cause continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Our implementation of these reforms and enhanced new disclosures has resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a significant diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Any unanticipated difficulties in implementing these reforms could result in material delays in complying with these new laws, regulations, and standards or significantly increase our operating costs. Our ability to fully comply with these new laws and regulations is also uncertain. Our failure to timely prepare for and implement the reforms required by these new laws, regulations, and standards could significantly harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, these laws, regulations, and standards may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members to serve on our board of directors and board committees, particularly our audit committee, and to attract and retain qualified executive officers, which could harm our business. The Growth Of The International Component Of Our Business Subjects Us To special Risks Associated With Foreign Operations. Our international operations are an increasingly important part of our business. In fiscal 2005, revenues from customers outside the United States represented approximately $10.0 million, compared with $8.2 million and $7.6 million in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. These international operations are subject to a number of risks and costs, including: • our ability to develop and support services and products that incorporate the tax laws, accounting practices and currencies of applicable countries; • costs of customizing products for foreign countries; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • compliance with multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • potentially weaker protection for our intellectual property than in the United States, and practical difficulties in enforcing such rights abroad; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • political and economic instability. Our international operations also face foreign currency-related risks. To date, most of our revenues have been denominated in United States dollars, but we believe that an increasing portion of our revenues will be 13 Table of Contents denominated in foreign currencies. We currently do not engage in foreign exchange hedging activities and, therefore, our international revenues and expenses are subject to the risks of currency fluctuations. Our international operations also expose us to international laws and regulations. If we are unable to comply with foreign laws and regulations, which are often complex and subject to variation and unexpected changes, we could incur unexpected costs and potential litigation. In addition, foreign countries might impose tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers, any of which could make it more difficult for us to conduct our business in international markets. We intend to continue to expand our international sales and marketing activities and enter into relationships with additional international distribution partners. We are in the early stages of developing our indirect distribution channels in markets outside the United States. We may not be able to attract and retain distribution partners that will be able to market our products effectively. Our Quarterly Revenues And Operating Results May Fluctuate, And We May Fail To Meet Expectations Of Investors And Public Market Analysts, Which Could Cause The Trading Price Of Our Common Stock To Be Volatile Or To Decline. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful and should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. If quarterly revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Factors that might cause quarterly fluctuations in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • the evolving demand for our services and software; • spending decisions by our customers and prospective customers; • our ability to manage expenses; • the timing of new product releases; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing of execution of large contracts; • changes in mix of our services and software offerings; • the mix of sales channels through which our services and software are sold; • costs of developing and enhancing our solutions; • our ability to deliver solutions to subscribers adequately; and • global economic and political conditions. Weakness In Capital Spending May Negatively Affect Our Financial Results. The continuing weakness of capital spending for enterprise software and business services may cause customers to reassess or reduce their planned technology investments and defer or reprioritize purchasing decisions. Any such reduction in business spending for technology could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our Lengthy Sales Cycle Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Results. Because of the high costs involved over a significant period of time in the purchase of enterprise software and business services, potential customers typically require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them about the value of our services and software. Our sales cycle, which is the time between initial contact with a potential customer and the ultimate sale, is unpredictable. As a result, we have limited ability to 14 Table of Contents forecast the timing and size of specific sales. In addition, customers may delay their purchases from a given quarter to another as they elect to wait for new product enhancements or due to other factors. Any delay in completing, or failure to complete, sales in a particular quarter or fiscal year could harm our business and could cause our operating results to vary significantly. Software License Revenues Are Volatile, Which Makes Our Operating Results Difficult To Forecast. Our software license revenues represented 4% of total revenues for fiscal 2005. While software license revenues are diminishing as a percent of total revenues, they continue to contribute to our overall operating results. However, the timing and amounts of license revenues can be difficult to predict, which can lead to variability in operating results. For example, our licensed software is typically shipped when orders are received, so license backlog at the beginning of any quarter typically represents only a small portion of the quarter’s expected license revenues. This makes license revenues in any quarter difficult to forecast because they are determined by orders booked and shipped in that quarter. Moreover, we have historically recognized a substantial percentage of license revenues in the last month of the quarter, frequently in the last week or even the last days of the quarter, and we expect this trend to continue for as long as our licensed software represents a meaningful part of our overall business. Because our expenses are relatively fixed in the near term, any shortfall from anticipated revenues or any delay in the recognition of revenues could result in significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Further, we find it difficult to forecast quarterly license revenues because our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of software, is lengthy and varies substantially from customer to customer. The continuing weakness of capital spending for enterprise software contributes to the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle for licensed products, making related revenues more difficult to predict and subjecting our operating results to greater volatility on a quarter over quarter basis. If Our Products And Services Do Not Keep Pace With Technological Change, Our Sales Could Decline And Our Business Could Be Harmed. We must continually modify and enhance our services and products to keep pace with changes in hardware and software platforms, database technology, and electronic commerce technical standards. Our future financial performance and revenue growth depend, in part, upon the successful development, introduction, and customer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products and services. We are subject to risks inherent in product development, including unanticipated technical or other development problems, which could result in material delays in product introduction and acceptance or significantly increased costs. This can result in adverse publicity, loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our products and services, or customer claims, including, among other things, warranty claims against us, any of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new services or products successfully, or to introduce in a timely manner and gain acceptance of such new products or services in the marketplace. As a result, uncertainties related to the timing and nature of new product announcements or introductions, or modifications by vendors of operating systems, back-office applications, and browsers and other Internet-related applications, could harm our business. We Rely On Third-Party Software And Services That May Be Difficult To Replace. We license or purchase software and services provided by third parties in connection with some of our services and software offerings. Such third-party software and services may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss or inability to maintain our rights to use any of these software or services could result in delays in the sale of our services or software offerings until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, licensed, and integrated, which could harm our business. Our Stock Price Has Experienced High Volatility In The Past, May Continue To Be Volatile, And May Decline. The trading price of our common stock has fluctuated widely in the past and may do so in the future, as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control, such as: • variations in our actual and anticipated operating results; 15 Table of Contents • changes in our earnings estimates by analysts; • failure to achieve earnings expectations; • the volatility inherent in stock prices within the emerging sector within which we conduct business; and • the volume of trading in our common stock, including sales of substantial amounts of common stock issued upon the exercise of outstanding options and warrants. In addition, the NASDAQ National Market, in which we trade, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many technology and computer software companies, particularly Internet-related companies. Such fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Further, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. In July 2001, we and several of our current and former officers were named as defendants in two securities class-action lawsuits based on alleged errors and omissions concerning underwriting terms in the prospectus for our initial public offering. In April 2002, these lawsuits were consolidated with more than 300 similar pending cases filed against companies that completed initial public offerings between 1997 and 2000 and the underwriters that took them public. In July 2003, we decided to participate in a proposed settlement negotiated by representatives of a coalition of issuers named as defendants in similar actions and their insurers. Although we believe that the plaintiffs’ claims have no merit, we decided to participate in the proposed settlement to avoid the cost and distraction of continued litigation. The proposed settlement agreement would dispose of all remaining claims against us and the individual present and former officers of Concur named as defendants, without any admission of wrongdoing by us or the individual defendants. The proposed settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court, but remains subject to final approval by the parties and the court. There is no guarantee that the parties or the court will finalize the proposed settlement. Should the parties and the court fail to finalize the proposed settlement, we would continue to defend ourselves vigorously. Any liability we incur in connection with this lawsuit could materially harm our business and financial position and, even if we defend ourselves successfully, there is a risk that management’s distraction in dealing with this lawsuit could harm our results. If We Fail To Attract And Retain Qualified Personnel, Our Business Could Be Harmed. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain highly qualified personnel; for example, in fiscal year 2005 we increased our direct sales force by more than 50% compared to the level of direct sales force employees at September 30, 2004. Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating, and retaining key personnel. In addition, recent changes in applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. Any inability to hire and retain salespeople or any other qualified personnel, or any loss of the services of key personnel, could harm our business. We May Require Additional Financing To Fund Our Operations Or Growth. In the future, we may be required to seek additional financing to fund our operations or growth. Factors such as the commercial success of our existing services and products, the timing and success of any new services and products, the progress of our systems development and programming efforts, our results of operations and cash flows, the use of cash in our stock repurchase program, the status of competitive services and products, and the timing and success of potential strategic alliances or potential opportunities to acquire or sell businesses or assets may require us to seek additional funding sooner than we expect. There is no assurance that such funding will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, the percentage of stock ownership by our existing stockholders would be reduced. In addition, such securities could have rights, preferences, and privileges senior 16 Table of Contents to those of our current stockholders. If adequate funds were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential growth, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our Ability To Protect Our Intellectual Property Is Limited And Our Products May Be Subject To Infringement Claims By Third Parties. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology, processes, trade secrets, and other proprietary information, and our ability to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure and use. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret, and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information. We do not own any issued patents or have any patent applications pending. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary, and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. We provide our licensed customers with access to object code versions of our software, and to other proprietary information underlying our software. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, particularly because the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult to control the ultimate destination or security of software or other data transmitted. While we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States, and we expect that it will become more difficult to monitor use of our products as we increase our international presence. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate, or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current or future products or other intellectual property rights. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, over the past several years, we have made numerous changes in our product names. Although we own registered trademarks in the United States and have filed trademark applications in the United States and in certain other countries, we do not have assurance that our strategy with respect to our trademark portfolio will be adequate to secure or protect all necessary intellectual property. If We Acquire Companies, Products, Or Technologies, We May Face Risks Associated With Those Acquisitions. In the future, we may acquire companies or make investments in other companies, products, or technologies. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of our prior or future acquisitions or investments to the extent that we anticipate, or at all. We may have to incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or investments, the issuance of which could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. If any acquisition or investment is not perceived as improving our earnings per share, our stock price may decline. In addition, we may incur non-cash amortization charges from acquisitions, which could harm our operating results. Any completed acquisitions would also require significant integration efforts, diverting our attention from our business operations and strategy. Anti-Takeover Effects Of Our Rights Agreement, Charter Documents, And Delaware Law Could Discourage Or Prevent A Change In Control Of Concur. We have a shareholder rights agreement in place, under which our stockholders have special rights, in the form of additional voting and beneficial ownership, in the event that a person or group not approved by the board of directors were to acquire, or to announce the intention to acquire 15% or more of our outstanding shares. This plan is designed to have the effect of discouraging, delaying or rendering more difficult an acquisition of us that has not been approved by our Board of Directors. In addition, there are provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions in the Delaware General Corporation Law, that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control. For example: • our Board of Directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of preferred stock with special voting or economic rights; 17 Table of Contents • our stockholders do not have cumulative voting rights, and, therefore, each of our directors can only be elected by holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock; • a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by a majority of our Board of Directors, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; • our stockholders may not take action by written consent; • our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, only one of which is elected each year; and • we require advance notice for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Unanticipated Changes In Our Tax Rates Could Affect Our Future Results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by unanticipated changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 