Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition to the risks discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial could, in the future, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. 7 Table of Contents Uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions and other changes in general political conditions in the United States or in any of the countries where we do business could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from changes in domestic and global economic and political conditions. If economic growth in the United States or globally slows or does not improve, or if the US or other countries in which we do business experience further economic recessions or sovereign debt crises, or if current economic conditions in Europe do not improve or deteriorate further, our business, operating results, financial condition, and liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. These conditions also could materially impact our members and prospective members, causing them to defer purchasing their first product; defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of memberships they purchase from us in the future; cancel or choose not to renew existing memberships; or terminate existing memberships before the end of their term under our service guarantee. These conditions also could materially impact our vendors causing them to go out of business entirely or be unable or unwilling to meet their commitments to us. If we are unable to successfully anticipate or adapt to changing economic conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, the slow pace of the global recovery, particularly in Europe, could reduce the overall demand for professional information services as global companies and government entities continue to manage purchasing, departmental budgets, and company-wide discretionary spending. While we market and sell our products and services throughout the year, a significant percentage of our new business and renewal bookings historically have taken place in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Significant economic and political uncertainty during these time periods could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our operating results. We may experience lower operating margins. Total bookings, new business, cross-sales, and renewal bookings continued to improve in 2011, and we expect that improvement to continue in 2012. However, investments in headcount, information technology, sales, marketing, product development, including lower margin product offerings, the addition of acquired companies, and the expansion into new geographic markets, and new target industries may apply downward pressure to our operating margins. We may fail to attract new members to our programs, obtain renewals from existing members, or sell additional programs to existing members. We derive most of our revenues from annual memberships for our products and services. Revenue growth depends on our ability to attract prospects to their first membership, sustain a high renewal rate of existing memberships, and sell additional products and services to existing members. Attracting prospects, renewing members, and selling additional products and services to existing members depends on our ability to understand and anticipate market and pricing trends and members’ needs, deliver high-quality and timely products and services to members, and deliver products and services that are more desirable than those of our competition. Failure to achieve new member additions, to deliver acceptable member renewal rate levels, or to cross-sell additional memberships to existing members at the level we forecast, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We occasionally re-structure existing products and services to reflect the changing importance of different member roles. This includes consolidation or re-alignment of existing offerings. While the intent is always to enhance our product and service offerings, strengthen our relations with existing and prospective members, and improve our efficiency as an organization, the intended benefits may not be realized and may adversely impact our relationships with prospective and existing members, causing them to defer purchasing their first product, defer, reduce, or not increase the volume of memberships they purchase, cancel or choose not to renew existing memberships, or terminate their memberships before the end of the term under our service guarantee. This could materially and adversely affect our operating results. If we do not retain members for the duration of their membership terms, we would suffer a loss of future revenues due to our service guarantee. We offer a service guarantee to most members under which a member may request a refund of the membership fee for a research program. When available, refunds are provided on a proportionate basis relative to the unused period of the membership term. Requests for refunds by a significant number of our members could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. We cannot predict the duration of the continuing uncertainty about global economic conditions, which may cause more members to request refunds. Failure to retain members for the duration of their membership term at the level we forecast could materially and adversely affect our operating results. 8 Table of Contents We may have difficulty anticipating member needs and demands, providing relevant support and advice, and developing new, profitable products and services. Our products and services provide insights, information, advice, and tools to business executives and professionals. Our continuing and future success depends on our ability to anticipate changing market trends and adapt our research, analysis, advice, new product development, pricing, and sales and service model to the evolving needs of our members, including in new and developing industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies. The industries, business sectors, government entities, and geographies that we serve undergo frequent changes, including shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants, and changing objectives and expectations of our members. This environment presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research and analysis on issues of importance and to develop new products. In addition, our members’ needs and demands with respect to how they access our products and services and how we manage the member relationship may change significantly over time. Accordingly, we continue to fund the development of new products and services, including for new geographies, and we have invested in improvements to our product development efforts, technology and information management infrastructure, and our sales and service model to better serve our new and existing members. If the new products and services we have developed are not timely or relevant, or if we fail to or are unsuccessful in our efforts to optimize our technology and information management infrastructure, or if we do not serve members in a manner that meets their evolving needs, we may experience increased member turnover, lower new business and renewal bookings, and decreased cross-sales of additional products and services to existing members, which would adversely affect our operating results and future growth. We may not compete successfully and, as a result, may experience reduced or limited demand for our products and services. The broad information industry we operate in is a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, numerous substitute products and services, shifting strategies and market positions including consolidation, and many differentiators, including quality and size of the member network, pricing, quality of research and analysis, effectiveness of advice, breadth of databases, accessibility of databases, service levels, and range and scope of product and service offerings. We generally compete against traditional consulting firms, benchmarking firms, research and data analytic firms, training and development firms, trade associations, nonprofit organizations, and research and database companies, as well as providers of free content over the Internet and through other delivery channels. We also compete against new entrants from the SaaS or data analytics industries, as well as against developing technologies such as social media, business intelligence software, and workflow software. To compete successfully and achieve our growth targets, we must successfully serve new and existing members with current products and services while developing and investing in new and competitive products and services for US and international members. Our failure to compete effectively with our competitors, both in terms of the quality and scope of our products and services, and in terms of price, could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. Continued slow growth, consolidation, and regulation in the financial services industry may cause us to lose additional members or limit the growth of our existing members in that industry. A number of our products and services provide insights and information to business leaders in the financial services industry. The financial services industry has experienced, and may continue to experience, slow growth, consolidation, and increased regulation. At December 31, 2011, approximately 20% of our Contract Value was attributable to members in the financial services industry, which includes commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, consumer credit lenders, brokerage houses, private and trust banks and insurance companies. Over the past five years, the slow growth, consolidation, and increased and uncertain regulation have resulted, and may in the future result, in a reduction in the number of members, prospective members, and additional memberships from the financial services industry. Additional uncertainty, consolidation, business failures, business contraction, reduced profitability, and increased and uncertain regulation in the financial services industry could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. Our international operations involve financial, legal, regulatory, business, operational, and geopolitical risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our North America operations. We continue to scale our infrastructure to support our businesses outside the United States, with offices in several foreign countries, including in the United Kingdom, Canada, India, Australia, Singapore, and Germany. We sell our membership programs in more than 50 foreign countries, and those international sales accounted for approximately 33% of our revenues in 2011. Our international operations involve financial, legal, regulatory, business, operational, and geopolitical risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our US operations. These risks include cultural and language differences; limited brand recognition relative to existing and established competitors; difficulties in developing products and services tailored to the needs of members outside the United States, including in emerging markets; difficulties in serving members outside the United States, including in emerging markets; difficulties in managing overseas operations; higher operating costs; lower operating margins, foreign currency risk; restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; differing accounting principles and standards; differing economic conditions and market fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences; different and potentially less stable political, operating, and economic environments; catastrophic events that could interrupt or adversely affect operations; less favorable employment laws that could affect relations with our employees; different legal requirements, compliance obligations, and regulatory systems; and different and in many cases stricter data security and privacy rules, which could affect the products and services we sell to members. Our failure to manage our international operations and business effectively could adversely affect our operating results, limit growth, and damage our reputation. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to foreign currency risk and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure. Our operating results are subject to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Prices for our products presently are denominated primarily in US dollars, even when sold outside the United States, although we plan to begin offering foreign currency billing to certain members outside of the United States in 2012. Many of the costs associated with our international operations are denominated in local currencies. We use financial instruments, primarily cash flow hedging instruments, to mitigate a portion of these risks related to our operations in the United Kingdom. The maximum length of time of these hedging contracts is 12 months. Although we believe that our foreign exchange hedging policies are reasonable and prudent under the circumstances, they may only partially offset any adverse financial impact resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially if these changes are extreme and occur over a short period of time. Our acquisitions involve financial, operational, human resources, and business risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our existing operations. We may make acquisitions that bring us capabilities and intellectual properties that address gaps in member needs and workflows. The acquisitions may result in material changes to our revenues and earnings and could require significant capital infusions. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund potential acquisitions by selling equity or debt securities or by increasing amounts available under our bank credit facility. Depending on the prevailing market conditions at the time we seek to obtain any such additional capital, we may be unable to obtain the necessary funds on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, any issuance of equity or convertible debt securities may be dilutive to existing shareholders. Our acquisitions involve financial, operational, human resources, business, legal, and regulatory risks that differ from or are in addition to those faced by our ongoing US operations, including: difficulties in accurately valuing the target business; difficulties and costs of integrating and maintaining the operations, personnel, technologies, products, vendors, and information systems of the companies we acquire; assumption of potential unknown risks and liabilities; difficulties achieving the target synergies, efficiencies, and cost savings; failure to retain key personnel and members; the acquisition of products with lower margins than our existing products; entry into and ongoing management of new geographical or product markets; exposure under arrangements such as earn-outs, employment agreements, and other acquisition-related agreements; the diversion of financial and management resources; and the integration of a different set of products and services into our existing operations. As a result, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits, which could adversely affect our operating results and future growth. Acquisitions may involve additional costs and could result in increased debt or contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense, and the recording of amortization of amounts related to certain purchased intangible assets, any of which could adversely impact our operating results. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for uncollectible revenue, income taxes, and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be subject to future impairment losses due to potential declines in the fair value of our assets. As a result of acquisitions and capital expenditures, we have goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets on our balance sheets. We test goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment on a periodic basis as required, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The events or changes that could require us to test our goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets for impairment include a reduction in our stock price and market capitalization, changes in estimated future cash flows, changes in rates of growth in our industry or in any of our reporting units, and ceasing to use portions of our existing leased office space. 10 Table of Contents The potential for goodwill impairment is increased during a period of economic uncertainty. To the extent we acquire a company at a negotiated price based on anticipated future performance, subsequent market conditions may result in the acquired business performing at a lower level than was anticipated at the time of the acquisition. Any of these charges would reduce our operating results and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. A slowing recovery in the United States, a prolonged recovery or second recession in Europe, and slowing growth in the global economy may result in declining performance that would require us to examine our goodwill for potential additional impairment. We will continue to evaluate the carrying value of our remaining goodwill, intangible assets, and fixed assets, and if we determine in the future that there is a potential further impairment, we may be required to record additional losses, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may be unable to retain key personnel, or recruit highly skilled management and employees. Our continued and future success depends on our ability to retain key personnel and hire, train, and retain highly skilled management and employees. We experience intense competition for our personnel from competitors. If we fail to retain key personnel, or attract, train, and retain a sufficient number of highly skilled management and employees in the future, our operating results and future growth could be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also a key factor for our long-term success. Our failure to enable the effective transfer of knowledge and facilitate smooth transitions with regards to key employees could adversely affect our long-term strategic planning and execution. We believe that a critical contributor to our success to date has been our corporate culture, which we believe fosters innovation and teamwork. As we grow, including from the integration of employees from businesses that we acquire, we may find it difficult to maintain important aspects of our corporate culture which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel and otherwise adversely affect our future success. We may fail to implement, maintain, upgrade, and operate our technology and information management infrastructure, including our management of member and employee data and our development and integration of new products, services, and platforms, to meet evolving legal and regulatory requirements in the United States and internationally. We serve our global membership and support our employees through a technology and information management infrastructure. Among other functions, we use our technology and information management infrastructure, as well as the technology and information management infrastructure of vendors, to develop, promote, sell, service, store, and deliver our products and services to members; to bill, collect, and make payments related to our products and services; and to support our employees. Our failure to make capital expenditures in this infrastructure and to leverage the infrastructure to meet our internal operational and business needs, and to address information security, privacy, data management, business continuity, and other concerns with our infrastructure and the infrastructure of our vendors, both in the United States and internationally, could adversely affect our operating results, development of new products, delivery of existing products, future performance, and reputation. In many countries, the rules governing information security, privacy, and related concerns are evolving, vary across regions, and are stricter than the rules in the United States. Our failure to adapt our products and services to these rules; to optimize or operationalize the use of the technology and information management infrastructure to address the evolving regulatory environment governing our use of technology and information; to protect our technology and information management infrastructure from natural disasters, power loss, malicious and negligent actions by employees or third parties; and other failures or catastrophic events could result in interruptions to our business and operations, which could materially affect our operating results, future growth, and reputation. We may fail to adequately protect our member data. In the normal course of operations, we collect and maintain confidential data from our members. Our failure to adequately preserve the confidentiality of this data, whether due to technological failures or errors in or deviations from our data maintenance policies and procedures, could result in data loss or corruption. In addition, it could cause the information that we collect to contain material inaccuracies. If we fail to adequately maintain and protect our member data, we could be exposed to potential litigation from our members, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose existing and have difficulty attracting new members, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. 11 Table of Contents We may fail to identify suitable candidates for, or realize the anticipated benefits of, strategic acquisitions, and we may be unable to effectuate dispositions of certain assets and business on acceptable terms and conditions or at all. With respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates at terms acceptable to us or may not achieve expected returns and other benefits as a result of various factors, including integration and collaboration challenges, such as personnel and technology. If we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our strategic objectives. Even upon reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property. We rely on contractual arrangements and nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements with employees, members, and third-parties, as well as copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other laws, to protect our proprietary rights in our products, services, and other proprietary information. We cannot assure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter negligent or intentional misappropriation of our intellectual property or confidential information, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our products and services would be adversely affected. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training; comprehensive monitoring of our networks and systems; and maintenance of backup and protective systems, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information; improper use of our systems and networks; manipulation and destruction of data; defective products; production downtimes; and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness, and operating results. We may be exposed to litigation. As a publisher and distributor of original research, analysis, and surveys, a user of third-party content, and an on-line content provider through our products and services, we face potential liability for trademark and copyright infringement and other claims based on materials we publish. In addition, from time to time we are subject to litigation related to our normal business operations, including employment-related actions brought by former employees. Any such litigation, regardless of the merits and whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could subject us to reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, there could be changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; or changes in the relevant tax, accounting, and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation, or the effects of a change in tax policy in the United States or international jurisdictions where we do business, could have a material effect on our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 12 Table of Contents We are exposed to interest rate fluctuations that could have a negative impact on our financial results or condition. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our portfolio of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, which is intended to protect principal and liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash held at various financial institutions. Marketable securities consist primarily of Washington, DC tax exempt bonds. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit ratings related to the cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our portfolio is subject to interest rate risk as investments mature and are reinvested at current market interest rates. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. In an environment of generally low interest rates, as currently exists, we will likely realize lower interest income on our investments, which will reduce our overall earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 