ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Extensive Regulation Of Our Business If we fail to follow extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. We derive a majority of our revenues on a cash basis from federal student financial aid programs. In connection with the receipt of federal financial aid by our students, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the "HEA"), and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education ("ED"), subject us to significant regulatory scrutiny in the form of numerous standards that schools must satisfy in order to participate in the various federal financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA ("Title IV"). As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulations by these agencies that, among other things, require us to: •undertake steps to assure that our schools do not have Cohort Default Rates that exceed applicable limits; •limit the percentage of revenues (on a cash basis) derived at each of our institutions from federal student financial aid programs to less than 90%; •adhere to financial responsibility and administrative capability standards; •prohibit the payment of certain incentives to personnel engaged in student recruiting, admissions activities or awarding financial aid; •achieve stringent completion and placement outcomes for short-term programs; and •make timely refunds of tuition when a student withdraws from one of our institutions. These regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer fines, penalties or other sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs at those schools, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. Congress may change eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs, or other governmental or regulatory bodies may change similar laws or regulations relating to other student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our business. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In mid-2008, Congress passed and the President signed the HEOA in order to reauthorize the HEA. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or ED that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. 46 Table of Contents Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV and alternative loan programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, the availability or attractiveness of alternative loans, or the ability of our schools or students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legislative action also could increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. Congress, accrediting agencies and state attorneys general have initiated hearings and other examinations of the for-profit education sector that could result in further legislation, ED rulemaking, restrictions on Title IV Program participation by proprietary schools, adverse actions, fines, penalties or other censure that may materially and adversely affect our business. On June 24, 2010, the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (the "HELP Committee") held the first in a series of hearings to examine the proprietary education sector and released a report, "Emerging Risk?: An Overview of Growth, Spending, Student Debt and Unanswered Questions in For-Profit Higher Education." On August 4, 2010, the HELP Committee held the second hearing in its series, focusing on student recruitment at for-profit schools. Earlier, on June 21, 2010, the Chairmen of the HELP Committee, together with other members of Congress, requested the U.S. Government Accountability Office (the "GAO") to conduct a review and prepare a report with recommendations regarding various aspects of the proprietary sector, including recruitment practices, educational quality, student outcomes, the sufficiency of integrity safeguards against waste, fraud and abuse in federal student aid programs and the degree to which proprietary institutions' revenue is composed of Title IV and other federal funding sources. On September 30, 2010, the HELP Committee held another hearing entitled "The Federal Investment in For-Profit Education: Are Students Succeeding?" On March 10, 2011, the HELP Committee held another hearing entitled, "Bridgepoint Education, Inc.: A Case study in For-Profit Education and Oversight." On July, 21, 2011, Senator Harkin, Chairman of the Senate HELP Committee, convened a roundtable discussion entitled "Improving For-Profit Higher Education: A Roundtable Discussion of Policy Solutions" at which various private sector education companies and critics of the sector participated. Prior to the HELP Committee's hearing on August 4, 2010, the GAO conducted a series of undercover investigations into the enrollment and recruiting practices at fifteen for-profit institutions of higher education in which GAO investigators with hidden cameras posed as potential new student enrollees. We believe that two of our campuses, one of which was Everest College Phoenix ("ECP"), were among those visited by the GAO. At the HELP Committee hearing on August 4, 2010, the GAO provided testimony that characterized the interactions between our campus personnel and the GAO investigators as "deceptive or otherwise questionable." On November 30, 2010, the GAO reissued its testimony by making numerous edits and corrections to its previous report. On December 1, 2010, the day after the GAO reissued its report, the HELP Committee provided the Company with copies of redacted audio recordings of the undercover investigations at the Company's two campuses. After listening to the audiotapes, the Company disagrees with the GAO's characterization of its interactions with the Company's personnel at the two campuses the GAO visited. Additionally, on August 12, 2010, the President of ECP received a letter from HLC requesting a response to the allegations contained in the GAO report. In addition to seeking a response to the specific circumstances identified in the GAO report, HLC requested that ECP demonstrate that it has reasonable, sufficient, and effective systems in place to assure appropriate control of employees engaged in the recruiting, marketing or admissions process. ECP has responded to HLC's request. We have also received similar requests from several state education licensing agencies regarding the allegations in the GAO report and are cooperating with those requests. On February 28, 2011, ECP received another letter from HLC indicating that a committee of peer reviewers and HLC staff had reviewed the materials submitted and had concluded that ECP's response 47 Table of Contents raised a number of questions about its oversight of recruiting, admissions and financial aid practices and the ability of those practices to serve students effectively while providing them with clear and accurate information. Accordingly, HLC provided a list of specific questions developed by the committee to be addressed by ECP. These questions relate to: •The nature of information provided to prospective students about enrollment agreements, financial aid, academic programs and employment outcomes; •the hiring and evaluation of admissions officers, and the implications of recruiting and admissions processes to the mission and strategic direction of the institution; •the hiring and evaluation of financial aid officers; •admission standards and processes; •retention and success of students; •the program review of ECP by the ED; and •general institutional data and information. ECP has submitted its response to HLC. HLC has indicated that the committee intends to meet with representatives of ECP to ask questions directly about these practices, and to issue a final report regarding its findings. The committee has indicated to ECP that there may be recommendations for corrective action to be monitored through HLC's monitoring processes. On August 5, 2010, we received a request for information from the HELP Committee relating to its series of hearings. We believe this request was extended to approximately thirty proprietary educational companies, including all such publicly traded companies. The request sought information regarding how we recruit and enroll students, set program price or tuition, determine financial aid including private or institutional loans, track attendance, handle withdrawal of students and return of Title IV dollars and manage compliance with the 90/10 rule. The request also sought information regarding the number of students who complete or graduate from our programs, how many of those students find work in their educational area, the debt levels of students enrolling and completing programs and information regarding the number of students who risk default within the cohort default rate window. The HELP Committee also requested that we provide information about a broad spectrum of our business, including detailed information relating to financial results, management, operations, personnel, recruiting, enrollment, graduation, student withdrawals, receipt of Title IV Program funds, institutional accreditation, regulatory compliance and other matters. We have made numerous submissions in response to the HELP Committee's requests. Additionally, since October 2010 the Company has been contacted by attorneys general offices in the states of Florida, California, Massachusetts, New York and Oregon. Each of those states' attorneys general office has requested from the Company, either through subpoenas, civil investigative demands, or informal requests, extensive document requests regarding its business. In every state but California, we understand the attorneys general are conducting broad inquiries into private sector education companies in their respective states, and not solely into the Company. In California, the California Attorney General's Office has requested information ostensibly pursuant to the Stipulated Judgment agreed to by the Company in July 2007 to determine compliance by the Company with the judgment and certain other matters. The Company is cooperating with these requests. On April 11, 2011 the Company's Everest Institute in Jonesboro, Georgia was sent a subpoena from the Atlanta office of ED's Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") requesting documents related to the Jonesboro campus's employment and placement rates reported to its accrediting agency, as well as correspondence with the accrediting agency. The Company has become aware that this matter is being supervised by an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia who 48 Table of Contents focuses primarily on civil false claims act matters, including qui tams. The Company does not know whether a qui tam action has been filed under seal or whether the United States Attorney's Office has made a determination about whether to file a false claims act lawsuit in this matter. The Company is cooperating with the OIG's request. We cannot predict the extent to which these investigations, hearings and review will result in further investigations, legislation, rulemaking or other adverse actions affecting our participation in Title IV Programs or other aspects of our business. If any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV Programs or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, or which otherwise materially change the way in which we do business, our business could be adversely and materially impacted. If any of our U.S. schools fails to maintain its accreditation or its state authorization, that institution may lose its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant agencies of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among the states. Additionally, both an approval to operate in a state and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by the ED are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. If any of our U.S. campuses were to lose its accreditation or its state authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On May 1, 2009, Everest College Phoenix received notification from its accrediting agency, HLC, that it had been placed on probation. Everest College Phoenix consists of two ground campuses and an online learning division. At June 30, 2011, the combined enrollment for Everest College Phoenix was 2,687 students. In May 2010, Everest College Phoenix hosted an HLC evaluation team. Everest College Phoenix received the evaluation team's report in August 2010, which noted that, while there had been some positive developments, deficiencies in the institution's compliance with HLC's accreditation criteria remained unresolved. The evaluation team concluded that adverse action by HLC was warranted, and recommended withdrawal of Everest College Phoenix's accreditation. On September 15, 2010, representatives of Everest College Phoenix met with an HLC Review Committee to review the evaluation team's recommendations. On September 21, 2010, Everest College Phoenix received the HLC Review Committee's report, which disagreed with the evaluation team's recommendation and instead recommended continued probation for Everest College Phoenix. The evaluation team and the Review Committee both forwarded their respective reports and recommendations to the HLC Board of Trustees for review and action. At its meeting on November 4, 2010, the HLC Board of Trustees voted to issue a Show-Cause Order requiring Everest College Phoenix to present its case as to why its accreditation should not be removed. In issuing its Show-Cause Order, the Board removed ECP from probation. Everest College Phoenix remains an accredited institution during the Show-Cause period. Show Cause is a procedural order that places the burden on the college to prove it remains an entity that meets HLC's accreditation standards. The Show Cause order requires Everest College Phoenix to present its case for continued accreditation by means of a Show-Cause Report that provides substantive evidence that the college has ameliorated HLC's concerns. Everest College Phoenix must also host a Show-Cause evaluation team that will validate the contents of the report and determine if each of HLC's concerns identified in the Show-Cause order has been fully resolved and the college meets HLC's Criteria for Accreditation. Everest College Phoenix has submitted its Show Cause Report, and in June 2011 hosted the HLC visiting team. The Show-Cause Order will remain in effect until the HLC Board reviews, at its November 2011 meeting, the college's Show-Cause Report, the Show-Cause Team Report, and the institution's response to the Show-Cause Team Report. If Everest College 49 Table of Contents Phoenix is unable to establish to the satisfaction of the HLC Board that it has resolved the HLC Board's concerns, HLC will move to withdraw ECP's accreditation. As previously reported, on August 12, 2010 Everest College Phoenix received a letter from HLC requesting certain information and evidence of Everest College Phoenix's compliance with HLC's accreditation standards. The request was instigated by the August 2010 report published by the U.S. Government Accountability Office of its undercover investigation into the enrollment and recruiting practices at a number of proprietary institutions of higher education, including Everest College Phoenix. Everest College Phoenix submitted its response to HLC in September 2010. On February 28, 2011, Everest College Phoenix received another letter from HLC indicating that a committee of peer reviewers and HLC staff had reviewed the materials submitted and had concluded that Everest College Phoenix's response raised a number of questions about its oversight of recruiting, admissions and financial aid practices and the ability of those practices to serve students effectively while providing them with clear and accurate information. Accordingly, HLC provided a list of specific questions developed by the committee to be addressed by Everest College Phoenix. These questions relate to: •The nature of information provided to prospective students about enrollment agreements, financial aid, academic programs and employment outcomes; •the hiring and evaluation of admissions officers, and the implications of recruiting and admissions processes to the mission and strategic direction of the institution; •the hiring and evaluation of financial aid officers; •admission standards and processes; •retention and success of students; •the program review of Everest College Phoenix by the U.S. Department of Education; and •general institutional data and information. Everest College Phoenix has submitted its response to HLC. HLC has indicated that the committee intends to meet with representatives of Everest College Phoenix to ask questions directly about these practices, and to issue a final report regarding its findings. The committee has indicated to Everest College Phoenix that there may be recommendations for corrective action to be monitored through HLC's monitoring processes. The Company cannot predict the outcome of these matters with certainty. Since accreditation is required for an institution to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, the failure by Everest College Phoenix to satisfactorily resolve its Show-Cause action with HLC could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. In a letter dated December 8, 2010, the Company received notification that ACCSC had voted to direct the Company's Everest Institute in Decatur, GA to show cause why its accreditation should not be withdrawn for failure to demonstrate compliance with ACCSC's required student achievement outcomes. The institution was required to provide the information requested by ACCSC on or before March 8, 2011, which it provided, for review at the May 2011 ACCSC meeting. At its meeting in May 2011, ACCSC continued the institution's show cause order to November 2011 and requested additional information from the institution. Since accreditation is required for an institution to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, the failure by Everest Institute in Decatur, GA to satisfactorily resolve its show cause action with ACCSC could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. 50 Table of Contents Recent Rulemaking by ED could materially adversely affect our business. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools, including ED, periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. On September 9, 2009, the Department published a notice in the Federal Register announcing its intent to establish two negotiated rulemaking committees to prepare proposed regulations under Title IV of the HEA. In November 2009, the U.S. Department of Education convened two new negotiated rulemaking teams related to Title IV program integrity issues and foreign school issues. Under negotiated rulemaking, ED works to develop a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in collaboration with representatives of the parties who will be affected significantly by the regulations through a series of meetings during which the representatives work with the ED to come to consensus on the ED's proposed regulations. One of the negotiating rulemaking committees addressed the following issues, many of which are relevant to the Company: (i) Definition of High School Diploma for the Purpose of Establishing Institutional Eligibility to Participate in the Title IV Programs, and Student Eligibility to Receive Title IV Aid; (ii) Ability to Benefit; (iii) Misrepresentation of Information to Students and Prospective Students; (iv) Incentive Compensation; (v) State Authorization as a Component of Institutional Eligibility; (vi) Gainful Employment in a Recognized Occupation; (vii) Definition of a Credit Hour; (viii) Agreements Between Institutions of Higher Education; (ix) Verification of Information Included on Student Aid Applications; (x) Satisfactory Academic Progress; (xi) Retaking Coursework; (xii) Return of Title IV Funds: Term-based Programs with Modules or Compressed Courses; (xiii) Return of Title IV Funds: Taking Attendance; and (xiv) Disbursements of Title IV Funds. This negotiated rulemaking committee completed its work on January 29, 2010 without reaching consensus. Accordingly, under the negotiated rulemaking protocol, ED was free to propose rules without regard to the tentative agreement reached regarding certain of the rules. On June 18, 2010, ED issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (the "June NPRM") on 13 of 14 program integrity issues in their entirety, and partially addressed the 14th issue, which involves the definition of "gainful employment;" the ED issued a separate NPRM on gainful employment metrics on July 26, 2010 (the "July NPRM"). The Company filed comments to both the June NPRM and the July NPRM. On October 29, 2010, the ED published final rules on all 14 Title IV Program Integrity issues, with the exception of the final regulation establishing specific metrics to define "gainful employment." The ED published final rules on the "gainful employment metrics" on June 13, 2011. The final ED rules that have the most significant potential impact on our business are the following: •the quantitative Gainful Employment Requirements; •the elimination of the 12 Safe Harbors regarding the Incentive Compensation Prohibition; •the requirement to notify ED of, and possibly obtaining ED's approval to offer, additional programs of study that lead to gainful employment; •determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours; •new requirements about what constitutes satisfactory state authorization for institutions to offer postsecondary education in a state; and •the enhanced definition of "substantial misrepresentation" that could impose enhanced liability on institutions of higher education. Gainful Employment Under the HEA, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV programs in respect of educational programs that lead to "gainful employment in a recognized occupation." Historically, this concept has been interpreted and applied to focus on the objectives of the programs. On June 13, 2011, 51 Table of Contents ED issued final regulations which become effective on July 1, 2012, that set out certain quantitative requirements for a program offered by a private sector educational institution to comply with the Gainful Employment Requirements. If any of our programs of study fails to satisfy the Gainful Employment Requirements for three out of four FFYs, that program would be deemed ineligible under the Title IV Programs. Students would be unable to obtain financial aid under the Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs associated with attending ineligible programs of study. A program of study will only satisfy the Gainful Employment Requirements, if: •the program's annual loan repayment rate, as defined and calculated by the ED, is at least 35%; or •the program's graduates' median annual loan payment, as calculated by the ED, is less than or equal to: •30% of discretionary income; or •12% of annual earnings. This regulation could render some of our programs, as well as programs offered by other private sector educational institutions, ineligible for Title IV funding to the extent they do not meet these standards. In addition, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding has been put at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income level of persons employed in specific occupations or sectors, changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs, changes in student loan delinquency rates and other factors. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding, in most cases it would not be practical to continue offering that course under our current business model. The Gainful Employment Requirements adopted by ED could result in a significant realignment of the types of educational programs that are offered by us and by other private sector educational institutions in general, in order to comply with the rules or to avoid the uncertainty associated with compliance over time. This realignment could reduce our enrollment, perhaps materially. In addition, we may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment, course completion or job placement in order to ensure continued Title IV eligibility. This could materially increase our cost of doing business and/or cause us to further limit enrollment. In addition to the qualitative Gainful Employment Requirements adopted on June 13, 2011, the final regulations issued by ED on October 29, 2010 contained provisions imposing increased notification and approval requirements for the award of Title IV program funds in any additional programs to be offered by a proprietary institution, and new disclosure requirements that will apply to programs that are required to demonstrate gainful employment in a recognized occupation. These provisions became effective July 1, 2011 and apply to all educational programs offered by the Company, and could affect the manner in which we conduct our business, as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The statutory language of this prohibition does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but between 2002 and June 30, 2011 there were twelve "safe harbors" that defined specific types of compensation that were deemed not to constitute impermissible incentive compensation. Until June 30, 2011, the Company relied on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices comply with the statutory prohibition. On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations that eliminated all twelve safe harbors, and in lieu of the safe 52 Table of Contents harbors, took the position that any adjustment to compensation based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the incentive payment prohibition in the HEA. The final rule further expands the prohibition to individuals who have "responsibility for" recruitment or admission of students or making decisions about awarding Title IV program funds. ED states that an institution still will be able to make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, but will not be permitted to consider nor base compensation directly or indirectly, in any part, on success in securing student enrollments, the award of financial aid or institutional goals based on that success. As a result of the final regulations, which took effect July 1, 2011, we changed our evaluation and compensation practices for admissions and financial aid representatives and certain other employees. This could adversely affect our ability to compensate our admissions and financial aid representatives and other employees in a manner that appropriately reflects their job performance, which in turn could reduce their effectiveness and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified and competent personnel. In addition, a lack of certainty could increase the risk of future Federal False Claims Act qui tam lawsuits in which private plaintiffs assert that our compensation practices violate the incentive compensation rules and, therefore, that our receipt of Title IV funds constitutes a false claim. We have been the subject of three such qui tam lawsuits relating to our compensation practices, all of which have been dismissed at the district court level. The relator in one of the dismissed cases appealed to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the district court's dismissal on August 8, 2011, and remanded case to the district to permit the relator to amend its complaint. ED Approvals for New Programs On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations requiring the Company to notify it, and possibly obtain ED's approval to offer, additional programs of study. ED will review the notice submitted by the institution and advise it whether the new program of study must be approved by the ED, or if additional information is required by ED to determine whether the program will be approved. We do not know how the ED will apply its rules with respect to additional programs. If we are required to obtain approval from the ED for any new programs of study and are unable to obtain the ED's approval in a timely manner, our ability to offer the new programs would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Clock Hours The final rules require that a program of study be considered a clock hour program for the purposes of Title IV Program funding when measuring student progress in clock hours is a requirement of receiving Federal or State approval to offer the program (except where such requirement applies only to a practicum, internship, or clinical experience component of the program), or completing clock hours is a requirement for graduates to apply for licensure or the authorization to practice the occupation that the student is intending to pursue. The scope of these final rules, particularly as applied to the manner by which programs of study are approved by various States, is unclear. Students attending programs of study that are now required to be measured in clock hours may receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. 53 Table of Contents State Authorization Under the HEA, an institution must be authorized by each State in which it is located to participate in Title IV programs. ED historically has determined that an institution is licensed or otherwise authorized in order to be certified as eligible to participate in Title IV Programs if the institution's State does not require the institution to obtain licensure or authorization to operate in the state. On October 29, 2010, ED issued new regulations that establish specific new federal requirements with respect to whether or not a State's authorization of an educational institution is sufficient for that institution to participate in Title IV programs. Recognizing that the final regulations may, in effect, require many States to revise existing laws or regulations, the rule issued by ED provides that a State may seek a one-year extension until July 1, 2012 to effectuate such changes, and if necessary obtain a second extension for one additional year. However, under the final regulations, an institution participating in Title IV programs must in the interim obtain from the pertinent states an explanation of how an extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply ED's regulations. Additional provisions of the final regulations require any institution offering distance education to students in states where it is not physically located to meet any state requirements for it to be legally offering postsecondary distance or correspondence education in that state, and to be able to document the state's approval of the institution to ED. Under the final regulations as issued by ED, certain of our campuses and distance education programs may be required to obtain additional or revised state authorizations to remain certified as eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. If we are unable to obtain additional or revised state authorizations, students at certain of our campuses, or certain of our students enrolled in distance education programs, may be unable to access Title IV Program funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential Impact of New Rules In addition to the program integrity issues specifically addressed above, the final regulations issued by ED include provisions regarding the definition of a credit hour; the types statements by an institution or parties related to an institution that constitute prohibited misrepresentation; written agreements between institutions, particularly institutions under common ownership or control; the administration of ability-to-benefit examinations; requirements regarding an institution's return of Title IV program funds; and certain other issues pertaining to a student's eligibility to receive Title IV program funds. We cannot predict how the recently released or any other resulting regulations will be interpreted, and therefore whether we will be able to comply with these requirements. Compliance with the final rules could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty surrounding application of the final rules may continue for some period of time and could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Prior to the enactment of the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008 ("HEOA"), a proprietary institution would lose its eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs for a period of one year if it derived more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from these programs in any fiscal year. Any institution that violated this rule immediately became ineligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs and would be ineligible to reapply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. Under the HEOA, an institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years would become immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV programs 54 Table of Contents and would not be permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of full two fiscal years. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by the ED in its discretion. While ED has discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, it is difficult to predict what those sanctions might be under the circumstances. ED could specify additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution's continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to students attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by ED. If an institution is subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. Effective July 1, 2008, the annual unsubsidized Stafford loans available for undergraduate students increased by $2,000. This increase, coupled with recent increases in grants from the Pell program and other Title IV loan limits, has resulted in our schools experiencing an increase in the revenues they receive from Title IV programs. The HEOA contains relief from recent increases in the availability and amount of federal aid by, among other things, for all unsubsidized Stafford loans disbursed before July 1, 2011, permitting the $2,000 of additional Stafford loan availability to be counted as revenue not derived from Title IV programs. Additionally, for the Company's fiscal years ending on or before June 30, 2012, the HEOA permits loans made by the Company to its students to count as non-Title IV revenue when earned, not when the loans are repaid as was the case for fiscal years 2008 and prior. As a result of increases in student loan limits and expanded eligibility for, and increases in, the maximum amount of Pell Grants, the percentage of our revenue on a cash basis attributable to Title IV funds has increased significantly over our past two completed fiscal years. Without the temporary relief imposed by the HEOA, approximately 88.5% of our net U.S. revenues (on a cash basis) would have been derived from federal Title IV programs in fiscal 2011, and 9 of our 49 institutions would have exceeded the 90% threshold. Under the modified 90/10 calculations imposed by the HEOA, the Company as a whole derived approximately 80.2% of its net U.S. revenue (on a cash basis) from Title IV Programs in fiscal 2011, and none of our institutions exceeded the 90% threshold. We regularly monitor compliance with the 90/10 Rule in order to minimize the risk that any of our institutions would derive more than the applicable thresholds of its revenue from the Title IV Programs for any fiscal year. If an institution appears likely to approach the threshold, we evaluate deferring the receipt of federal student financial aid or other measures to ensure compliance with the 90/10 Rule. At the end of fiscal 2011, the Company delayed drawing down approximately $87.0 million of Title IV funds (which were subsequently collected in July 2011 within the appropriate ED payment periods) to help its institutions comply with the 90/10 rule for fiscal 2011. The first portion of 90/10 relief under the HEOA expired on July 1, 2011, making compliance much more difficult. One way to reduce the percentage of revenue our institutions receive under the Title IV Programs is to raise tuition rates. An increase in tuition prices above the applicable maximums for Title IV student loans and grants effectively requires students to obtain other sources of funding to resolve the remaining tuition balance. In that way, our institutions can reduce the percentage of revenue from Title IV sources. To increase the probability that our institutions can maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule in fiscal 2012, we implemented a tuition price increase in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2011. Price increases were calculated individually for each institution and averaged approximately twelve percent. We do not believe that substantial tuition price increases are in the best interests of our students, and they are inconsistent with the ED "gainful employment" regulations. We are continuing 55 Table of Contents to educate policy makers about the negative consequences of the 90/10 Rule, and we believe that the most effective solution to address the increasing 90/10 Rule percentage is a change in the 90/10 Rule itself. If the 90/10 Rule is favorably modified or rescinded, we would roll back prices to reflect any such benefits on a prospective basis. There is no assurance that ED, or Congress, will address this problem by modifying the 90/10 Rule or will address it in a manner that timely and favorably impacts compliance by our institutions. A decrease in the availability of state grants could also adversely impact our ability to comply with the 90/10 Rule because state grants are considered non-Title IV cash payments for purposes of the 90/10 Rule. In this regard, a new California law, Senate Bill 70 ("SB 70"), was signed into law in March 2011. Among other things, SB 70 modified California Grant ("Cal Grant") eligibility requirements for students and institutions. We expect Cal Grants to represent approximately 1% of total Company revenue in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. SB 70 uses preliminary three-year cohort default rates as one measure of institutional eligibility requirements for Cal Grants, and it will affect new and current Cal Grant recipients beginning with the 2011 - 2012 academic year. When these changes take effect, some of our California students will have to replace their Cal Grant amounts with other sources, primarily Stafford loans. We do not believe the impact of the loss of some Cal Grant amounts will materially affect our financial statements, but it could make compliance with the 90/10 Rule by our affected California institutions more difficult. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, loses eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. As Congress increases available Title IV aid, we are often effectively required to increase tuition prices in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule; conversely, ED's "gainful employment" regulations could require us to reduce tuition prices in order to limit the debt burden of our students. Our institutions may not be able to comply with both rules. In order to comply with the 90/10 Rule, the Company's institutions cannot receive more than 90% of their revenues (on a cash basis) from Title IV sources. When Congress has increased available aid to students through the Title IV Program, some of our institutions—especially those that serve the most disadvantaged students who are entitled to receive the most Title IV student financial aid—have effectively been required to raise their tuition and fees in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule by maintaining a 10% "gap" between tuition charges and the average student's available Title IV funds. Under ED's gainful employment regulation, on the other hand, those programs where the average graduate's debt repayment burden exceeds a particular percentage of the average graduate's compensation cease to be eligible for Title IV Program funds, or face other restrictions imposed by ED. This requirement generally puts downward pressure on tuition prices so that students do not incur debt that exceeds ED's prescribed levels. Some of our programs may not be able to comply with the gainful employment rule while also maintaining compliance with the 90/10 Rule. Our efforts to comply with both rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if their current and former students' loan default rates on federally guaranteed student loans are too high. Under the HEA, an institution could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its former students on their federal student loans equal or exceed 25% per year for three consecutive years, or 40% in a single year. The term "institution" means a main campus and its additional locations, as defined by ED's regulations. ED generally publishes draft cohort default rates in February of each year for the repayment period that ended the prior September 30. We review all annually published cohort default rates and appeal the rates we believe 56 Table of Contents are inaccurate. Draft rates do not result in sanctions and can change between February and the release of the official cohort default rates in September. We monitor on an ongoing basis the preliminary data about cohorts which are in the process of repayment, and are currently monitoring the repayment and default status of students who entered repayment during the federal fiscal years ended September 30, 2009 (the "2009 Cohort") and September 30, 2010 (the "2010 Cohort"), and the federal fiscal year ending September 30, 2011 (the "2011 Cohort"). The draft two-year cohort default rates for the 2010 Cohort, and the draft three-year cohort default rates for the 2009 Cohort, will not be available until February 2012. Prior to the credit crisis in 2008, three types of entities played a role in managing student loan defaults in the FFEL Program: lenders participating in the FFEL Program, such as Sallie Mae; guaranty agencies; and post-secondary institutions such as ours. Since the credit crisis in 2008, many student loan portfolios were "put," or sold, to the federal government by lenders that either went out of business or could no longer fund their FFEL program loans. Lenders still in existence became servicing agents for the loans held by the government. Accordingly, guaranty agencies no longer play a role in default management and lenders' roles have been significantly reduced. In addition, since May 2008, ED distributed "put loans" to multiple servicers, and many of our students have loans with more than one servicing organization. This has made our default prevention efforts more complicated and difficult. Taken together, the structural changes in student lending have significantly reduced the level of default management activity previously provided by lenders and guaranty agencies. These changes have also negatively affected the timeliness and accuracy of federal databases and thus hindered the Company's efforts at data collection and analysis. The most recent data we have received regarding defaults from the 2010 Cohort is encouraging. We previously expected that up to three of our institutions could exceed ED's 25% default threshold for three consecutive years under the two-year methodology, which could have resulted in loss of federal funding for those institutions. Given the trend data now available, we believe that none of our institutions will exceed the 25% threshold under the Department's two-year measurement methodology for three years in a row. For the 2010 Cohort, we do not expect any of our institutions to exceed the required 25% threshold. We believe that these positive trends are the result of three main factors: 1) our substantial investment in cohort default prevention over the past 18 months; 2) stabilization in the student lending environment; and 3) the increased participation of loan servicers in default management. The 2008 HEOA made significant changes to the requirements governing the Title IV Programs, including the provisions on cohort default rates. Under the HEOA, a separate calculation will be performed starting for the 2009 Cohort that will add an additional federal fiscal year of borrowers' repayment performance to the applicable cohort year. Starting after rates for the 2011 Cohort are finalized in 2014, sanctions will be imposed if an institution has a cohort default rate, under the new calculation, of 30% or more per year for three consecutive federal fiscal years, or more than 40% for a single year. As this is a new requirement, we are extending our cohort default prevention efforts to cover the additional year of measurement under the HEOA. However, we expect the higher two-year rates for the 2009 Cohort to translate into substantially elevated three-year rates for the same cohort, draft results for which we expect to receive in February 2012. Thus, we expect a majority of our institutions to exceed the 30% threshold under the new 3-year measurement for the 2009 Cohort. Sanctions do not become applicable for the 3-year measurement until 2014, at which time final rates will have been published under the three-year measurement for the 2009, 2010 and 2011 Cohorts. We expect to continue our default prevention efforts in order to attempt to improve default rates for the 2010 and 2011 Cohorts during their applicable repayment periods, but it is too early to make predictions about the success of those efforts. Accordingly, we can provide no assurances that our efforts will be successful, and we are unable to predict whether any, or how many, of our institutions will ultimately have cohort default rates in excess of 30% for three years in a row under the three-year measurement methodology. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 57 Table of Contents We discontinued enrolling ATB Students at our Everest and WyoTech schools beginning on September 1, 2010. The elimination of this population of potential new student enrollments has adversely affected our business. We began serving this population of students again in June 2011. Serving "ability-to-benefit" students (or "ATB students") has historically been part of the Company's mission, and most of these students have very few other options for obtaining post-secondary education. However, ATB students are a higher risk population who complete their programs at a lower rate and default on their student loans at a higher rate than high school graduates. Accordingly, after the shift to a 3-year default measurement period and the structural changes in student lending over the past two years, we stopped enrolling ATB students into our U.S. Everest and WyoTech institutions on September 1, 2010. At June 30, 2011, ATB students accounted for approximately 4.3% of our enrollments. The elimination of this population of potential new students has negatively impacted our new student enrollments, which, in turn, has had an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our decision to stop serving ATB students in September 2010 was one of several measures to reduce cohort default rates. We are now seeing improvement in our cohort default trends beginning with the 2010 Cohort of students. As a result, we resumed enrolling ATB students on a more limited basis in June 2011. We plan to limit ATB students to a maximum of 10% of total enrollment. While we believe this change will not materially adversely affect our cohort default rates, we must comply with certain regulations to be able to serve ATB students. If we are unable to comply with these regulations or to adequately serve this higher risk population, it could adversely affect our business. Our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair value to the carrying amount at the reporting unit level as defined by the accounting guidance. We determined the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach, based on discounted cash flow, and a market-based approach. To the extent the fair value of a reporting unit is less that the carrying amount of its assets, we record an impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations. In connection with receipt of federal financial aid by the Company's students, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. Compliance with the regulations promulgated by these various bodies could have a material impact on the manner in which the Company conducts its business. As of December 31, 2010 the market value of the Company was below book value. Accordingly, the Company performed a valuation of its reporting units and concluded that an impairment existed as of the balance sheet date. As a result of the analysis, we determined that the current fair value of the goodwill in certain of our reporting units was $0, and accordingly recorded an impairment charge of $203.6 million, the majority of which was non-deductible for tax purposes, in the three and six month periods ended December 31, 2010. To the extent known, the Company incorporated the risks associated with regulatory compliance into the cash flow forecasts and discount rates used to estimate the fair value of each of its reporting units at December 31, 2010. However, should the Company need to take additional actions not currently foreseen to comply with current and future regulations, the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of our reporting units, including estimation of future cash flows, revenue growth, and discount rates, could be negatively impacted and could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. The remaining goodwill of $197.9 million relates to the Heald acquisition in January 2010. The Company performed its required annual impairment test for goodwill and other non amortizable intangible assets and concluded that book value was below fair market value and accordingly no additional impairment existed at June 30, 2011. 58 Table of Contents In the future, if our stock price remains depressed or declines further, or if for any other reason we are required to significantly write down the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by the ED, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of the ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, the ED calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution's financial responsibility or "composite score." If an institution's score is above 1.5, it may continue its participation in federal student financial aid programs. For fiscal 2010, our calculations show that all of our schools exceed this requirement on an individual basis and are eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, with composite scores ranging from 1.5 to 3.0. On a consolidated basis, we also exceed this requirement with a composite score of 2.1, excluding goodwill impairment. We believe our calculations of the financial responsibility score are correct. However, the calculation is subject to interpretive issues relating to the appropriate treatment of goodwill impairment in the calculation of the composite score. If the ED were to take a different interpretive position with regard to this calculation, it could negatively impact the Company's composite score on a consolidated basis. We cannot assure you that we and our institutions will continue to satisfy the numeric standards in the future. One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if they do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that was disbursed to students who withdrew from their educational programs before completing them, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we may have to post a letter of credit in favor of the ED or be otherwise sanctioned by the ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with the ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution was found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. The requirement to post a letter of credit or other sanctions by the ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. If regulators do not approve our acquisitions, the acquired school(s) would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. When we acquire an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, we must seek approval from the ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, because an acquisition is considered a change of ownership or control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. A change of ownership or control of an institution under the ED standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with the ED 59 Table of Contents and the ED issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from the state agencies, accrediting agencies or ED for any institution we may acquire in the future, depending on the size of that acquisition, such a failure to obtain approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Additionally, if regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control of the Company, all of our institutions may lose their ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. If we experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies or the ED, we or the affected institutions must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Some of these transactions or events, such as a significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock by third parties on the open market or through a tender offer, may be beyond our control. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control could also discourage bids for our outstanding shares of common stock at a premium and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to the ED, our business could suffer. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite "administrative capability" to participate in federal student financial aid programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: •comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; •have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; •have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; •provide financial aid counseling to its students; and •submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, the ED may: •require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds; •transfer the institution from the "advance" system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the "reimbursement" system of payment or cash monitoring; •place the institution on provisional certification status; or •commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in federal student financial aid programs. Should one or more of our institutions be limited in their access to, or lose, federal student financial aid funds due to their failure to demonstrate administrative capability, our business could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, commence investigations, bring claims or institute litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject from time to time to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully 60 Table of Contents defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the "reimbursement" or "heightened cash monitoring" method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. Investigations, claims and actions against other companies in our sector could adversely affect our business and stock price. During the past decade, we and other companies in the for-profit postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the Justice Department, state attorneys general, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), the ED, state agencies, accrediting agencies and other entities. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the for-profit postsecondary education sector in general, our business and the market price of our common stock. Failure to comply with extensive Canadian regulations could affect the ability of our Canadian schools to participate in Canadian financial aid programs. Our post-secondary schools in Canada derive a significant percentage of their revenue on a cash basis from Canadian governmental financial aid programs, and our Canadian students receive loans under student financial aid programs. Our Canadian schools must meet eligibility standards to administer these programs and must comply with extensive statutes, rules, regulations and requirements. If our Canadian schools cannot meet these and other eligibility standards or fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the Canadian and Ontario provincial governments continuously review the legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student financial assistance programs due to political and budgetary pressures. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the funding for these programs, any change that significantly reduces funding or the ability of our schools to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational and Economic Risks That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business North American macroeconomic conditions, particularly unemployment, could affect the demand for our services. The North American economy has been in the midst of an economic downturn in recent years. These conditions contributed to a portion of our enrollment growth in recent fiscal years as more potential new students were attracted to our schools to advance their education and improve their job prospects. Improvements in the North American economy, including overall reductions in unemployment, could negatively affect overall demand for our educational services and contribute to declines in new student enrollment. A more robust economic recovery in North America may further 61 Table of Contents negatively impact demand for our services from potential new students, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our discount student loan programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our discount student loan programs have enabled students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and are ineligible for private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools if they or a co-borrower meet certain criteria. Historically, we had developed several loan programs with origination and servicing providers such as Sallie Mae for students with low credit scores who otherwise would not qualify for loans. These loan programs required that we pay a discount fee to the origination and servicing providers of the loans as a reserve against future defaults on these loans. We have historically referred to these types of loans as "discount loans," since we incurred a portion of the default risk related to these students' loans by taking a discount on the disbursement. In early 2008 we were informed by Sallie Mae and two other origination and servicing providers that they would no longer make private loans available for students who present higher credit risks (i.e. subprime borrowers). In the face of this change in policy, we created a new student lending program with a different origination and servicing provider, Genesis, who specialized in subprime credit. This Genesis loan program has characteristics similar to our previous "discount loan" programs. Under the Genesis loan program, we paid a discount to the origination and servicing provider. As with our previous discount loan program, we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, as the collectability of these amounts is not reasonably assured. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our Genesis discount loan program we have both the right and the obligation (subject to certain limitations in our agreement with Genesis), to acquire the related loans. Since we initiated the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we have acquired all of the loans that have been originated. On June 29, 2011, the Company entered into a loan origination agreement and related documents with ASFG, LLC ("ASFG") for the purpose of creating a new private education discount loan program for the Company's students. Under the loan origination agreement, ASFG intends to fund approximately $450 million in new student loans over the next two years. Under this education loan program, an unaffiliated lender will make private education loans to eligible students and, subsequently, sell those loans to ASFG or its designee. The ASFG loan program will be made available to Corinthian students starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. This ASFG loan program has characteristics similar to our Genesis program. As with our Genesis discount loan program, under this ASFG program we pay a discount to ASFG for any loans purchased by ASFG and record the discount as a reduction to revenue. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our new discount program we have no right or obligation to acquire the related loan upon origination. Pursuant to a backup loan purchase agreement entered into in connection with the loan origination agreement, the Company will be obligated to purchase any of the student loans on which no payment has been made for over 90 days, and the Company could then pursue collections for its own account. Under this backup loan purchase agreement, the Company's maximum obligation (including the initial discount payment) could be equal to the face amount of loans originated under this loan program, although the Company expects its ultimate risk under this loan program to be substantially similar to the risks it faces under its existing Genesis discount loan program. Federal, state and local laws and public policy and general principles of equity relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we purchase under this program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans 62 Table of Contents that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the new student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the new student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. For the Genesis and ASFG discount loans we acquire, we bear the risks of collection. Therefore, even though we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, to the extent collections are less than the net amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and our bad debt expense may increase. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers' performance and the priority that borrowers, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. All of these factors could result in the Genesis discount loan program having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business will be harmed. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing and advertising efforts may not be effective in attracting prospective students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our revenue and margins may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. If we cannot effectively identify, acquire and integrate additional schools, it could harm our business. We expect to continue to rely on acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We often engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible acquisition candidates. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire any of the acquisition candidates on favorable terms. Furthermore, we cannot make assurances that any acquired schools can be successfully integrated into our operations or be operated profitably. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that include: •diversion of management resources; •integration of the acquired schools' operations; 63 Table of Contents •adverse short-term effects on reported operating results; and •possible loss of key employees. Continued growth through acquisitions may also subject us to unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities. When we acquire an existing school, we typically allocate a significant portion of the purchase price to fixed assets, curriculum, goodwill and intangibles, such as covenants not-to-compete, trade names and accreditations. The Company does not amortize goodwill, accreditation, or trade names as these assets meet the indefinite life criteria outlined in the accounting guidance. Curricula are amortized over their useful lives ranging generally from three to fifteen years and Student Relationships is being amortized over their useful life of one year. Goodwill is tested annually or more frequently for impairment. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair values to their carrying amounts. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have indefinite lives are amortized over their useful lives. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school's participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains the ED's approval. If we fail to successfully manage our acquisitions, our business would likely suffer. Failure to effectively manage opening new schools and adding new services could harm our business. Establishing new schools requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. To open a new school, we are also required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, the new school is required to be certified as eligible to receive Title IV funds by the ED. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully open new schools in the future. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We depend on key personnel, including Jack D. Massimino, Kenneth S. Ord, Robert D. Bosic, Beth A. Wilson, William B. Buchanan, Mark L. Pelesh, Stan A. Mortensen, Robert C. Owen and David A. Poldoian, to effectively operate our business. If any of these people left our Company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new people, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and campus support center management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay, defer or inhibit a future acquisition of our Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. By using preferred stock, we could: •discourage a proxy contest; •make the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult; or 64 Table of Contents •limit the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our schools are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving our current and former students, alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and routine employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage or current reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We could also incur substantial legal costs, and management's attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Please see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," for more detailed information on these litigation risks. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our business. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Educational programs at our schools, particularly programs in information technology, must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive, and has become ever more so over the past several years. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer on-line learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to those of our schools. Although tuition at many private non-profit institutions is higher than tuition at our schools, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could reduce our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and access to our credit facility that expires in October 2012 will be adequate to fund our currently identified plans. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to carry out our growth strategies. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary depending on the timing and size of acquisitions, our availability to access credit markets, and the sellers' willingness to provide financing themselves. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes or economic downturns occur in specific geographic areas where we have a high concentration of schools, our business could be harmed. We have large numbers of schools concentrated in certain geographic areas. For instance, we have a high concentration of schools in California, Florida, Texas, Georgia, Michigan, the Province of Ontario and other states and cities. We expect to continue to have high concentrations of schools in large metropolitan areas as we create new branch campuses and acquire new schools. These geographic concentrations may change or intensify over time. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes, economic developments or other adverse events occur or are more intensively felt in some of these concentrated geographic areas, our business and results of operations could be disproportionately affected compared to the rest of the United States and Canada. 65 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 