ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Extensive Regulation Of Our Business If we fail to follow extensive regulatory requirements for our business, we could suffer severe fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal student loans and grants for our students. We derive a majority of our revenues on a cash basis from federal student financial aid programs. In connection with the receipt of federal financial aid by our students, we are subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. In particular, the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (the "HEA"), and the regulations issued thereunder by the Department of Education ("ED"), subject us to significant regulatory scrutiny in the form of numerous standards that schools must satisfy in order to participate in the various federal financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA ("Title IV"). As a result, our schools are subject to extensive regulations by these agencies that, among other things, require us to: •undertake steps to assure that our schools do not have Cohort Default Rates that exceed applicable limits; •limit the percentage of revenues (on a cash basis) derived at each of our institutions from federal student financial aid programs to less than 90%; •adhere to financial responsibility and administrative capability standards; •prohibit the payment of certain incentives to personnel engaged in student recruiting, admissions activities or awarding financial aid; •achieve stringent completion and placement outcomes for short-term programs; and •make timely refunds of tuition when a student withdraws from one of our institutions. These regulatory agencies periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. If one or more of our schools were to violate any of these regulatory requirements, we could suffer fines, penalties or other sanctions, including the loss of our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs at those schools, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict how all of these requirements will be applied, or whether we will be able to comply with all of the requirements. Congress has in the past changed, and may in the future change, eligibility standards or reduce funding for federal student financial aid programs. Other governmental or regulatory bodies may also change similar laws or regulations relating to student financial aid programs, which could adversely affect our business. Political and budgetary concerns can significantly affect Title IV programs and other laws and regulations governing federal and state student financial aid programs. Title IV programs are made available pursuant to the provisions of the HEA, and the HEA must be reauthorized by Congress approximately every six years. Independent of reauthorization, Congress must annually appropriate funds for Title IV programs. In mid-2008, Congress passed and the President signed the HEOA in order to reauthorize the HEA. On December 23, 2011, President Obama signed into law the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-74) (the "Appropriations Act"). The new law significantly impacts the federal student aid programs authorized under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended ("HEA"). Auto-Zero EFC Income Threshold—The Appropriations Act amended the HEA to reduce the income threshold for an automatic zero "expected family contribution" to $23,000 for the 2012-2013 award year for both dependent and independent students. The threshold for 2012-2013 was scheduled to be $32,000, but now will be $23,000. For students whose families make between $23,000 and $32,000 per year, this will decrease the amount of Pell grants such students will receive. 43 Table of Contents Ability-to-Benefit—The Appropriations Act also eliminated federal student aid eligibility for all students without a "certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary education or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate." The Appropriations Act makes an exception for students who have completed a secondary school education in a home school setting that is treated as a home school or private school under state law. Therefore, students who do not have a high school diploma or a recognized equivalent (e.g., a GED), or do not meet the home school requirements, and who first enroll in a program of study on or after July 1, 2012, will not be eligible to receive Title IV student aid. Students will qualify for Title IV student aid under one of the ability-to-benefit (ATB) alternatives if the student was enrolled in a Title IV eligible program prior to July 1, 2012. Those alternatives include the student passing an independently-administered, approved ATB test or successfully completing at least six credit hours or 225 clock hours of postsecondary education. A student who does not possess a high school diploma, or a recognized equivalent, but who is enrolled in a Title IV eligible program any time prior to July 1, 2012 may be eligible to receive Title IV student assistance after July 1, 2012. As of June 30, 2012 approximately 7.3% of our continuing operations student population were ATB students. Federal Pell Grant Duration of Eligibility—The Appropriations Act also amended the HEA to reduce the duration of a student's eligibility to receive a federal Pell Grant from 18 semesters (or its equivalent) to 12 semesters (or its equivalent). This provision applies to all federal Pell Grant eligible students effective with the 2012-13 award year. This may eliminate the ability of some of our students to continue to receive Pell Grants, depending on their prior receipt of Pell Grants from our institutions and from other institutions prior to enrolling in our schools. We are unable to predict the ultimate financial impact on the Company of these changes. However, our institutions have been unable to accept new ATB students starting on July 1, 2012, and the financial aid for some of our other students may be reduced or eliminated as a result of the Appropriations Act. If we are not able to effectively recruit additional new students to make up for those ATB students we will be unable to enroll, or if the reduction or elimination of financial aid after that date deters some students from enrolling, it would negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. Future reauthorizations or appropriations may result in numerous legislative changes, including those that could adversely affect our ability to participate in the Title IV programs and the availability of Title IV and non-Title IV funding sources for our students. Congress also may impose certain requirements upon the state or accrediting agencies with respect to their approval of our schools. Any action by Congress or ED that significantly reduces funding for the federal student financial aid programs or the ability of our schools or students to participate in these programs would have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislative action also may increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to modify our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with applicable requirements. Because a significant percentage of our revenue is derived from Title IV and alternative loan programs, any action by Congress that significantly reduces Title IV program funding, the availability or attractiveness of alternative loans, or the ability of our schools or students to participate in Title IV programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Legislative action also could increase our administrative costs and burdens and require us to adjust our practices in order for our schools to comply fully with Title IV program requirements. 44 Table of Contents Congress, accrediting agencies and state attorneys general have initiated hearings and other examinations of the for-profit education sector that could result in further legislation, ED rulemaking, restrictions on Title IV Program participation by proprietary schools, adverse actions, fines, penalties or other censure that may materially and adversely affect our business. On July 30, 2012, Chairman Tom Harkin and the Majority Staff of the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee (the "HELP Committee") released a report, "For Profit Higher Education: The Failure to Safeguard the Federal Investment and Ensure Student Success." While stating that for-profit colleges and universities have an important role to play in higher education and should be well-equipped to meet the needs of non-traditional students who now constitute the majority of the postsecondary educational population, the report was highly critical of these institutions. The report contended that these institutions have a high cost of attendance, engage in aggressive and deceptive recruiting, have high drop-out rates, provide insufficient student support services, and are responsible for high levels of student debt and loan defaults, among other things. The report called for increased disclosure of information about student outcomes at for-profit colleges and universities, prohibiting institutions from using federal financial aid funding to market, advertise and recruit, amending the 90/10 rule to prohibit these institutions from receiving more than 85 percent of their revenues from federal funds, prohibiting the use of mandatory binding arbitration clauses in enrollment agreements, and other measures ostensibly to protect students and taxpayers. The report was a culmination of a series of hearings held by Chairman Harkin before the HELP Committee since June 24, 2010. As part of the HELP Committee hearings, GAO conducted a series of undercover investigations into the enrollment and recruiting practices at fifteen for-profit institutions of higher education in which GAO investigators with hidden cameras posed as potential new student enrollees. Two of our campuses, one of which was ECP, were among those visited by the GAO. On August 12, 2010, the President of ECP received a letter from ECP's accrediting agency, HLC, requesting a response to allegations contained in a GAO report regarding the undercover investigation, which ECP provided. On February 28, 2011, ECP received another letter from HLC peer reviewers and staff with additional questions about ECP's oversight of recruiting, admissions and financial aid practices at ECP; ECP responded to those additional questions in April 2011. Separately, as part of its normal reaccreditation cycle, ECP received notification from HLC in May 2010 that it had been placed on probation by HLC as a result of concerns related to ECP's governance model, questions about whether it had the necessary autonomy and authority to make decisions for itself independent of the Corinthian corporate structure, and concerns that ECP lacked sufficient operational and academic control over its branch campus and online division. Subsequently, in November 2010, HLC voted to issue a Show-Cause Order requiring ECP to present its case as to why its accreditation should not be removed. ECP responded to the Show-Cause Order, and on November 11, 2011 ECP received notification from HLC that its Board of Trustees had removed ECP from Show-Cause and had continued ECP's accreditation for three years. As part of HLC's reaccreditation of ECP, HLC requires ECP to submit a monitoring report each quarter with certain information, including about ECP Board of Trustees meetings, enrollment and retention reports by various student characteristics, numbers of faculty online and on-ground, and instructional loads for faculty. If the monitoring reports provide evidence that ECP is not continuing implementation of its participatory governance plan or if enrollment appears to be escalating significantly without proportionate growth in full- and part-time faculty, HLC may call for an immediate focused or advisory visit to determine what further action may be appropriate. In addition, HLC required ECP to host an advisory visit in spring 2012 focused on ECP's admissions, recruiting and financial aid practices to determine how ECP is addressing HLC's previous questions about these areas. HLC also informed ECP that if the final determination letter regarding 45 Table of Contents the program review initiated by ED in August 2008 contains any findings of fraud, misrepresentation or other breach of integrity, HLC may initiate a reconsideration process regarding ECP's accreditation. In February 2012, Everest College Phoenix submitted a Focused Visit Advisory Report to HLC, and in May 2012, Everest College Phoenix hosted an additional HLC two-day visit to review its admissions, recruiting, and financial aid practices. ECP is currently awaiting HLC's response to the Focused Visit Advisory Report and the visit regarding admissions, recruiting and financial aid practices. Additionally, since October 2010 the Company has been contacted by attorneys general offices in the states of Florida, California, Massachusetts, New York, Oregon and Illinois. Each of those states' attorneys general office has requested from the Company, either through subpoenas, civil investigative demands, or informal requests, extensive document requests regarding its business. In every state but California, we understand the attorneys general are conducting broad inquiries into private sector education companies in their respective states, and not solely into the Company. In California, the California Attorney General's Office requested information ostensibly pursuant to the Stipulated Judgment agreed to by the Company in July 2007 to determine compliance by the Company with the judgment and certain other matters. The Company has provided information to the State of California and considers this matter closed. Additionally, Oregon Attorney General's Office has also closed its investigation without taking any enforcement action against the Company. The Company is continuing to cooperate with with the other ongoing requests. On April 11, 2011 the Company's Everest Institute in Jonesboro, Georgia was sent a subpoena from the Atlanta office of ED's Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") requesting documents related to the Jonesboro campus's employment and placement rates reported to its accrediting agency, as well as correspondence with the accrediting agency. The Company has become aware that this matter is being supervised by an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia who focuses primarily on civil false claims act matters, including qui tams. The Company does not know whether a qui tam action has been filed under seal or whether the United States Attorney's Office has made a determination about whether to file a false claims act lawsuit in this matter. The Company is cooperating with the OIG's request. We cannot predict the extent to which the Harkin report and these investigations, hearings and reviews will result in further investigations, legislation, rulemaking or other adverse actions affecting our participation in Title IV Programs, or accreditation or other aspects of our business. If any laws or regulations are adopted that limit our participation in Title IV Programs or the amount of student financial aid for which our students are eligible, or negatively affect the accreditation of our institutions, or impose fines, penalties or other adverse actions, or which otherwise materially change the way in which we do business, our business could be adversely and materially impacted. If any of our U.S. schools fails to maintain its accreditation or its state authorization, that institution may lose its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. An institution that grants degrees, diplomas or certificates must be authorized by the relevant agencies of the state in which it is located and, in some cases, other states. Requirements for authorization vary substantially among the states. Additionally, both an approval to operate in a state and accreditation by an accrediting agency recognized by ED are required for an institution to participate in the federal student financial aid programs. If any of our U.S. campuses were to lose its accreditation or its state authorization, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. On December 22, 2011, that Company received notification that ACCSC had voted to continue a Show Cause order for the Company's Everest Institute campus in Decatur, GA, and had voted to issue a Show Cause order for the Company's Everest Institute campus in Jonesboro, GA. On February 28, 2012, the Company adopted a plan to streamline operations of certain of its ground campuses, including the teach-out of its Everest Institute campus in Decatur, GA. Accordingly, the Decatur 46 Table of Contents campus is no longer enrolling new students, and the Company expects all current students to have been taught out and operations to cease entirely by the end of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. The Company has informed ACCSC of this decision and process. Since accreditation is required for an institution to be eligible to participate in the federal student financial aid programs, the failure by Everest Institute in Jonesboro, GA to satisfactorily resolve its show cause order with ACCSC could result in the campus losing its ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. The failure by any significant number of the Company's institutions to maintain accreditation could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operation, and financial condition. Recent Rulemaking by ED could materially adversely affect our business. The agencies that regulate our U.S. schools, including ED, periodically revise their requirements and modify their interpretations of existing requirements. In 2009-11, ED proposed, and ultimately adopted, changes to its regulations on the following subjects relating to Title IV Program Integrity: (i) Definition of High School Diploma for the Purpose of Establishing Institutional Eligibility to Participate in the Title IV Programs, and Student Eligibility to Receive Title IV Aid; (ii) Ability to Benefit; (iii) Misrepresentation of Information to Students and Prospective Students; (iv) Incentive Compensation; (v) State Authorization as a Component of Institutional Eligibility; (vi) Gainful Employment in a Recognized Occupation; (vii) Definition of a Credit Hour; (viii) Agreements Between Institutions of Higher Education; (ix) Verification of Information Included on Student Aid Applications; (x) Satisfactory Academic Progress; (xi) Retaking Coursework; (xii) Return of Title IV Funds: Term-based Programs with Modules or Compressed Courses; (xiii) Return of Title IV Funds: Taking Attendance; and (xiv) Disbursements of Title IV Funds. On October 29, 2010, ED published final rules on all 14 Title IV Program Integrity issues, with the exception of the final regulation establishing specific metrics to define "gainful employment." ED published final rules on the "gainful employment metrics" on June 13, 2011 (all of these new rules are collectively referred to as the "Program Integrity Rules"). Subject to the resolution of ongoing litigation related to these rules (as described below), the final ED rules that could have the most significant potential impact on our business are the following: •the quantitative gainful employment requirements; •the elimination of the 12 Safe Harbors regarding the incentive compensation prohibition; •the requirement to notify ED of, and possibly obtaining ED's approval to offer, additional programs of study that lead to gainful employment; •determining when a program of study is required to measure student progress in clock hours; •new requirements about what constitutes satisfactory state authorization for institutions to offer postsecondary education in a state; and •the enhanced definition of "substantial misrepresentation" that could impose enhanced liability on institutions of higher education. Gainful Employment Under the HEA, proprietary schools are eligible to participate in Title IV programs in respect of educational programs that lead to "gainful employment in a recognized occupation." Historically, this concept has been interpreted and applied to focus on the objectives of the programs. On June 13, 2011, ED issued final regulations which become effective on July 1, 2012, that set out certain quantitative requirements for a program offered by a private sector educational institution to comply with the gainful employment requirements. If any of our programs of study fails to satisfy the gainful employment requirements for three out of four FFYs, that program would be deemed ineligible under 47 Table of Contents the Title IV Programs. Students would be unable to obtain financial aid under the Title IV Programs to help pay their education costs associated with attending ineligible programs of study. A program of study will only satisfy the gainful employment requirements, if: •the program's annual loan repayment rate, as defined and calculated by ED, is at least 35%; or •the program's graduates' median annual loan payment, as calculated by ED, is less than or equal to: •30% of discretionary income; or •12% of annual earnings. This regulation could render some of our programs, as well as programs offered by other private sector educational institutions, ineligible for Title IV funding to the extent they do not meet these standards. In addition, under the regulation, the continuing eligibility of our educational programs for Title IV funding could be put at risk due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in the income level of persons employed in specific occupations or sectors, changes in student mix to persons requiring higher amounts of student loans to complete their programs, changes in student loan delinquency rates and other factors. If a particular program ceased to be eligible for Title IV funding, in most cases it would not be practical to continue offering that course under our current business model. The gainful employment requirements adopted by ED could result in a significant realignment of the types of educational programs that are offered by us and by other private sector educational institutions in general, in order to comply with the rules or to avoid the uncertainty associated with compliance over time. This realignment could reduce our enrollment, perhaps materially. In addition, we may have to substantially increase our efforts to promote student loan repayment, course completion or job placement in order to ensure continued Title IV eligibility. This could materially increase our cost of doing business and/or cause us to further limit enrollment. In addition to the qualitative gainful employment requirements adopted on June 13, 2011, the final regulations issued by ED on October 29, 2010 contained provisions imposing increased notification and approval requirements for the award of Title IV program funds in any additional programs to be offered by a proprietary institution, and new disclosure requirements that will apply to programs that are required to demonstrate gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Although the gainful employment requirements were scheduled to go into effect July 1, 2012, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued a decision on June 30, 2012 in the case captioned Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities v. Duncan (the "APSCU case") that vacated most of the gainful employment requirements and remanded those regulations to ED for further action. On July 6, 2012, ED issued an electronic announcement acknowledging that the Court had vacated the repayment rate metric as well as the debt-to-income metrics that would have gone into effect on July 1, 2012. ED also noted that institutions are not required to comply with related regulations relating to gainful employment reporting requirements and adding new educational programs, but are required to comply with requirements to disclose certain information about educational programs. The District Court's decision is subject to appeal by ED and could be modified or reversed on appeal. Moreover, ED could take further action to address the District Court's concerns regarding the regulations and obtain approval to enforce the regulations, or ED could issue new regulations regarding gainful employment. We cannot predict what steps ED will take in response to the District Court's decision, how long those steps will take, or whether those steps will result in ED being able to enforce the gainful employment regulations or issuing new regulations. To the extent that the regulations are upheld on appeal or revised to retain provisions that still adversely affect the eligibility of the programs we offer, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. 48 Table of Contents Incentive Compensation A school participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or admissions or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The statutory language of this prohibition does not establish clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but between 2002 and June 30, 2011 there were twelve "safe harbors" that defined specific types of compensation that were deemed not to constitute impermissible incentive compensation. Until June 30, 2011, the Company relied on several of these safe harbors to ensure that our compensation and recruitment practices comply with the statutory prohibition. On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations that eliminated all twelve safe harbors, and in lieu of the safe harbors, took the position that any adjustment to compensation based directly or indirectly on securing enrollments or awarding financial aid is inconsistent with the incentive payment prohibition in the HEA. The final rule further expands the prohibition to individuals who have "responsibility for" recruitment or admission of students or making decisions about awarding Title IV program funds. ED states that an institution still will be able to make merit-based adjustments to employee compensation, but will not be permitted to consider or base compensation directly or indirectly, in any part, on success in securing student enrollments, the award of financial aid or institutional goals based on that success. As a result of the Program Integrity Rules, which took effect July 1, 2011, we changed our evaluation and compensation practices for admissions and financial aid representatives and certain other employees. This could adversely affect our ability to compensate our admissions and financial aid representatives and other employees in a manner that appropriately reflects their job performance, which in turn could reduce their effectiveness and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified and competent personnel. In addition, a lack of certainty could increase the risk of future Federal False Claims Act qui tam lawsuits in which private plaintiffs assert that our compensation practices violate the incentive compensation rules and, therefore, that our receipt of Title IV funds constitutes a false claim. We have been the subject of at least three such qui tam lawsuits relating to our compensation practices, all of which were initially dismissed at the district court level. The relator in one of the dismissed cases, the Lee case, appealed to the U.S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which reversed the District Court's dismissal on August 8, 2011, and remanded case to permit the relator to amend its complaint. On December 15, 2011, the first amended Lee complaint was filed in District Court alleging violations of the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. § 3729 against the Company, Ernst & Young LLC, David Moore and Jack Massimino. The Company moved the District Court to dismiss the first amended Lee complaint, and the relators opposed that motion. On April 19, 2012, the District Court held that the statute of limitations bars the relators from asserting claims based on conduct prior to 2005, but otherwise denied the Company's motion to dismiss. Please see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," for more information on this litigation. ED Approvals for New Programs On October 29, 2010, ED issued final regulations requiring the Company to notify it, and possibly obtain ED's approval to offer, additional programs of study. The rule permits ED to review the notice submitted by the institution and advise it whether the new program of study must be approved by ED, or if additional information is required by ED to determine whether the program will be approved. The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia also vacated the new program approval rule in the APSCU case and remanded those regulations to ED for further action. If the District Court decision is overturned on appeal, or if ED promulgates new rules that survive challenge and we are required to obtain approval from ED for any new programs of study and are unable to obtain ED's approval in a timely manner, our ability to offer the new programs would be impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our expansion plans, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 49 Table of Contents Clock Hours The final Program Integrity Rules require that a program of study be considered a clock hour program for the purposes of Title IV Program funding when measuring student progress in clock hours is a requirement of receiving Federal or State approval to offer the program (except where such requirement applies only to a practicum, internship, or clinical experience component of the program), or completing clock hours is a requirement for graduates to apply for licensure or the authorization to practice the occupation that the student is intending to pursue. The scope of these rules, particularly as applied to the manner by which programs of study are approved by various States, is unclear. Students attending programs of study that are now required to be measured in clock hours may receive less funds from Title IV Programs to pay their cost of education. Students interested in those programs of study may have to use more expensive private financing to pay their cost of education or may be unable to enroll in those programs of study. Students may determine that they do not qualify for private financing or that the private financing costs make borrowing too expensive, which may cause students to abandon or delay their education. Any or all of these factors could reduce our enrollment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. State Authorization Under the HEA, an institution must be authorized by each State in which it is located to participate in Title IV programs. ED historically has determined that an institution is licensed or otherwise authorized in order to be certified as eligible to participate in Title IV Programs if the institution's State does not require the institution to obtain licensure or authorization to operate in the state. On October 29, 2010, ED's new Program Integrity Rules established specific federal requirements with respect to whether or not a State's authorization of an educational institution is sufficient for that institution to participate in Title IV programs. Recognizing that the new regulations may, in effect, require many States to revise existing laws or regulations, the rule issued by ED provided that a State may seek a one-year extension until July 1, 2012 to effectuate such changes, and if necessary obtain a second extension for one additional year. However, under the final regulations, an institution participating in Title IV programs must in the interim obtain from the pertinent states an explanation of how an extension will permit the state to modify its procedures to comply with ED's regulations. Additional provisions of the final regulations require any institution offering distance education to students in states where it is not physically located to meet any state requirements for it to be legally offering postsecondary distance or correspondence education in that state, and to be able to document the state's approval of the institution to ED. Under the final Program Integrity Rules as issued by ED, certain of our campuses and distance education programs may be required to obtain additional or revised state authorizations to remain certified as eligible to participate in Title IV Programs. If we are unable to obtain additional or revised state authorizations, students at certain of our campuses, or certain of our students enrolled in distance education programs, may be unable to access Title IV Program funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Potential Impact of New Rules In addition to the specific issues addressed above, the Program Integrity Rules issued by ED include provisions regarding the definition of a credit hour; the types of statements by an institution or parties related to an institution that constitute prohibited misrepresentation; written agreements between institutions, particularly institutions under common ownership or control; requirements regarding an institution's return of Title IV program funds; and certain other issues pertaining to a student's eligibility to receive Title IV program funds. We cannot predict how the Program Integrity Rules will be interpreted, and therefore whether we will be able to comply with these requirements. 50 Table of Contents Compliance with the final rules could have a material adverse effect on our business. Uncertainty surrounding application of the final rules may continue for some period of time and could reduce our enrollment, increase our cost of doing business, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if the percentage of their revenues derived from those programs is too high. Prior to the enactment of the HEOA, a proprietary institution would lose its eligibility to participate in the federal student financial aid programs for a period of one year if it derived more than 90% of its revenues, on a cash basis, from these programs in any fiscal year. Any institution that violated this rule immediately became ineligible to participate in federal student financial aid programs and would be ineligible to reapply to regain its eligibility until the following fiscal year. Under the HEOA, an institution that derives more than 90% of its total revenue from the Title IV programs for two consecutive fiscal years would become immediately ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would not be permitted to reapply for eligibility until the end of full two fiscal years. An institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue from Title IV programs for any single fiscal year will be automatically placed on provisional certification for two fiscal years and will be subject to possible additional sanctions determined to be appropriate under the circumstances by ED in its discretion. While ED has discretion to impose additional sanctions on such an institution, it is difficult to predict what those sanctions might be under the circumstances. ED could specify additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institution's continued participation in Title IV programs. These conditions may include, among other things, restrictions on the total amount of Title IV program funds that may be distributed to students attending the institution; restrictions on programmatic and geographic expansion; requirements to obtain and post letters of credit; additional reporting requirements to include additional interim financial reporting; or any other conditions imposed by ED. If an institution is subject to a provisional certification at the time that its current program participation agreement expired, the effect on recertification of the institution or continued eligibility in Title IV programs pending recertification is uncertain. Effective July 1, 2008, the annual unsubsidized Stafford loans available for undergraduate students increased by $2,000. The HEOA contained temporary relief from increases in the availability and amount of federal aid by, among other things, for all unsubsidized Stafford loans disbursed before July 1, 2011, permitting the $2,000 of additional Stafford loan availability to be counted as revenue not derived from Title IV programs. That relief has expired, and for the Company's fiscal year ending June 30, 2012, all Stafford loans counted as Title IV revenue. Additionally, for the Company's fiscal years ending on or before June 30, 2012, the HEOA permits loans made by the Company to its students to count as non-Title IV revenue when earned, not when the loans are repaid as was the case for fiscal years 2008 and prior. The expiration of the temporary relief in the HEOA as of July 1, 2011 with respect to the additional $2,000 in unsubsidized Stafford loans, budget related reductions in state grant and workforce training programs and other alternative funding sources that have historically helped compliance with the 90/10 Rule have all adversely affected our schools' 90/10 rates, with the rates for the majority of our institutions worsening in fiscal 2012 from our prior historical rates, and expected to further worsen in fiscal 2013. Two of our 49 institutions (44 of which are in continuing operations) exceeded the 90% threshold in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, and the Company as a whole derived approximately 84.6% of its net U.S. revenue (on a modified cash basis) from Title IV Programs. The two institutions which exceeded the 90 percent threshold in fiscal 2012 were ECP at 94.1% and Everest University in Tampa, FL at 92.4%. Combined, these institutions had 10,550 students at June 30, 2012. On August 14, 2012 we notified ED that two of our institutions had 90/10 rates above 90% for the 2012 fiscal year. Without the temporary relief permitted by the HEOA, approximately 51 Table of Contents 85.9% of our net U.S. revenues (on a modified cash basis) would have been derived from federal Title IV programs, and three of our institutions would have exceeded the 90% threshold. The two institutions that exceeded the 90/10 Rule limit for fiscal year 2012 are now considered, under ED regulations, to be certified on a provisional basis for two years and will be subject to possible additional ED sanctions. While ED has broad discretion to impose additional sanctions on these institutions, there is limited precedent to anticipate what those sanctions might be, particularly in the current regulatory environment. ED could specify a wide range of additional conditions as a part of the provisional certification and the institutions' continued participation in Title IV Programs. When an institution is subject to provisional certification at the time that its program participation agreement expires, ED also has greater discretion in considering the conditions to attach if it recertifies such institution. Any of our institutions that derive more than 90% of their revenue from Title IV Programs for two consecutive fiscal years will be ineligible to participate in Title IV Programs for at least two fiscal years. Some of our efforts to comply with the 90/10 Rule, especially for those institutions that exceed the 90% threshold for a fiscal year, may involve taking measures that reduce our revenue, increase our operating expenses, or both, perhaps significantly. If the 90/10 Rule is not changed to provide relief for private sector institutions, we may be required to make further changes to our business in order to remain in compliance, which could alter the manner in which we conduct our business and materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. As Congress increases available Title IV aid, we are often effectively required to increase tuition prices in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule; conversely, ED's "gainful employment" regulations (if revived on appeal or further ED rulemaking) could require us to reduce tuition prices in order to limit the debt burden of our students. Our institutions may not be able to comply with both rules. In order to comply with the 90/10 Rule, the Company's institutions cannot receive more than 90% of their revenues (on a cash basis) from Title IV sources. When Congress has increased available aid to students through the Title IV Program, some of our institutions—especially those that serve the most disadvantaged students who are entitled to receive the most Title IV student financial aid—have effectively been required to raise their tuition and fees in order to maintain compliance with the 90/10 Rule by maintaining a 10% "gap" between tuition charges and the average student's available Title IV funds. If ED's gainful employment rule is ultimately upheld by the courts, or if ED undertakes further rulemaking to revive the rule, on the other hand, those programs where the average graduate's debt repayment burden exceeds a particular percentage of the average graduate's compensation cease to be eligible for Title IV Program funds, or face other restrictions imposed by ED. This requirement generally puts downward pressure on tuition prices so that students do not incur debt that exceeds ED's prescribed levels. Some of our programs may not be able to comply with the gainful employment rule while also maintaining compliance with the 90/10 Rule. Our efforts to comply with both rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs if their current and former students' loan default rates on federally guaranteed student loans are too high. Under the HEA, an institution could lose its eligibility to participate in some or all of the federal student financial aid programs if defaults by its former students is too high. The term "institution" means a main campus and its additional locations, as defined by ED's regulations. ED generally publishes draft cohort default rates in February of each year for the repayment period that ended the prior September 30. 52 Table of Contents Currently, an institution's Cohort Default Rates under the FFEL and FDL programs are calculated on an annual basis as the rate at which student borrowers scheduled to begin repayment on their loans in one federal fiscal year default on those loans by the end of the next federal fiscal year. Under the HEOA, a separate calculation is performed that adds an additional federal fiscal year of borrowers' repayment performance. An institution that participates in both the FFEL and FDL programs receives a single "weighted average" Cohort Default Rate in place of an FFEL or FDL Cohort Default Rate. Any institution whose Cohort Default Rate equals or exceeds 25% for any one of the three most recent federal fiscal years under the old, pre-HEOA method of calculation may be found by ED to lack administrative capability, and on that basis, placed on provisional certification status for up to three years. Additionally, any such institution may be required by its accrediting agency to provide additional information or supplemental reports. Provisional certification status does not limit an institution's access to Title IV Program funds, but does subject that institution to closer review by ED and possible summary adverse action if that institution commits violations of the Title IV Program requirements. Provisional certification may also impede an institution's ability to grow by limiting its ability to add new programs and locations. Any institution whose Cohort Default Rates equals or exceeds 25% for three consecutive years under the current, pre-HEOA calculation would lose eligibility to participate in the FDL and the Pell grant programs for the remainder of the federal fiscal year in which ED determines that such institution has lost its eligibility and for the two subsequent federal fiscal years. Additionally, pursuant to the HEOA this percentage is increasing increase to 30% after three years of Cohort Default Rates calculated with the additional federal fiscal year are available, and then become applicable to the imposition of sanctions. In addition, an institution whose Cohort Default Rate for any federal fiscal year exceeds 40% would have its eligibility to participate in the FDL program limited, suspended or terminated. We review all annually published cohort default rates and appeal the rates we believe are inaccurate. Draft rates do not result in sanctions and can change between February and the release of the official cohort default rates in September. On an on-going basis, we monitor cohort repayment data, and we are currently monitoring the repayment and default status of the 2010, 2011, and 2012 Cohorts. If any of our institutions, depending on its size, were to lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs because of high student loan default rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets. Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair value to the carrying amount at the reporting unit level as defined by the accounting guidance. We determined the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach, based on discounted cash flow, and a market-based approach. To the extent the fair value of a reporting unit is less that the carrying amount of its assets, we record an impairment charge in the consolidated statements of operations. In connection with receipt of federal financial aid by the Company's students, the Company is subject to extensive regulation by governmental agencies and licensing and accrediting agencies. Compliance with the regulations promulgated by these various bodies could have a material impact on the manner in which the Company conducts its business. Should the Company need to take additional actions to comply with current and future regulations, the assumptions used to calculate the fair value of our reporting units, including estimation of future cash flows, revenue growth, and discount rates, could be negatively impacted and could result in an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If our stock price remains depressed or declines further, or if for any other reason we are required to significantly write down the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents If we do not meet specific financial responsibility ratios and tests established by ED, our U.S. schools may lose eligibility to participate in federal student financial aid programs. To participate in the federal student financial aid programs, an institution must either satisfy quantitative standards of financial responsibility, or post a letter of credit in favor of ED and possibly accept other conditions on its participation in the federal student financial aid programs. Each year, based on financial information submitted by institutions that participate in federal student financial aid programs, ED calculates three financial ratios for an institution: an equity ratio, a primary reserve ratio and a net income ratio. Each of these ratios is scored separately and then combined to determine the institution's financial responsibility or "composite score." If an institution's score is above 1.5, it is deemed financially responsible without conditions or additional oversight. If an institution's composite score is below 1.5, but within a designated threshold level (the "Zone," which is 1.0 to 1.4), such institution may take advantage of an alternative that allows it to continue to participate in the Title IV Programs for up to three years under additional monitoring and reporting procedures but without having to post a letter of credit in favor of ED. If an institution's composite score falls below the minimum threshold level of 1.0 or is in the Zone for more than three consecutive years, the institution may be required to post a letter of credit in favor of ED. On a consolidated basis, we met this requirement in fiscal 2012 with a composite score of 1.5. For our fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, our calculations show that, on a consolidated basis, we also exceeded this requirement with a composite score of 2.1, excluding goodwill impairment. ED has not yet concurred with our calculations of the composite score for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, and we will not submit our calculations for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 to ED for some time. We believe our calculations of the financial responsibility score for fiscal 2011 are correct. However, the calculation is subject to interpretive issues relating to the appropriate treatment of goodwill impairment in the calculation of the composite score. In this regard, we have been in communication with an analyst at ED who questioned the appropriate treatment of the goodwill impairment charge we took in fiscal 2011, and also questioned whether other intangible assets on our balance sheet at June 30, 2011 should have been expensed for purposes of the composite score. As a result, we have engaged in discussions with ED regarding our calculations and have provided ED with a detailed explanation of our views regarding the appropriate treatment of goodwill impairment and other intangible assets on the composite score calculation. We continue to believe our calculations are correct, but if ED were to conclude that the goodwill impairment should be included as an expense in the calculation of the Company's composite score, this would negatively impact the Company's composite score on a consolidated basis for fiscal 2011, and ED might consider the Company not to be financially responsible until ED accepted our fiscal 2012 financial responsibility calculations. Depending on ED's resolutions of this matter, we could be required to satisfy the standards of financial responsibility on an alternative basis, including potentially by posting irrevocable letters of credit. Additionally, a definitive determination by ED that our composite score is less than 1.5 could be a default under our existing credit agreement. We cannot provide assurance that ED will agree with our calculations, or that our institutions will continue to satisfy the financial responsibility standards in the future. If we were found by ED to have not satisfied the financial responsibility standards, or if we fail to satisfy such standards in the future, it could have an adverse impact on our access to Title IV funds, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. 54 Table of Contents One or more of our institutions may have to post a letter of credit or be subject to other sanctions if they do not correctly calculate and timely return Title IV Program funds for students who withdraw before completing their program of study. A school participating in Title IV Programs must correctly calculate the amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that was disbursed to students who withdrew from their educational programs before completing them, and must return those unearned funds in a timely manner, generally within 45 days of the date the school determines that the student has withdrawn. If the unearned funds are not properly calculated and timely returned, we have to post letters of credit in favor of ED or be otherwise sanctioned by ED. An institution is required to post a letter of credit with ED in an amount equal to 25% of the total dollar amount of unearned Title IV Program funds that the institution was required to return with respect to withdrawn students during its most recently completed fiscal year, if the institution was found in an audit or program review to have untimely returned unearned Title IV Program funds with respect to 5% or more of the students in the audit or program review sample of withdrawn students, in either of its two most recently completed fiscal years. We currently have outstanding letters of credit posted in favor of ED in the aggregate amount of $7.7 million. The requirement to post additional letters of credit or other sanctions by ED could increase our cost of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results of operations. If regulators do not approve our acquisitions, the acquired school(s) would not be permitted to participate in federal student financial aid programs. When we acquire an institution that participates in federal student financial aid programs, we must seek approval from ED and most applicable state agencies and accrediting agencies, because an acquisition is considered a change of ownership or control of the acquired institution under applicable regulatory standards. A change of ownership or control of an institution under ED standards can result in the temporary suspension of the institution's participation in the federal student financial aid programs unless a timely and materially complete application for recertification is filed with ED and ED issues a temporary certification document. If we are unable to obtain approvals from the state agencies, accrediting agencies or ED for any institution we may acquire in the future, depending on the size of that acquisition, such a failure to obtain approval could have a material adverse effect on our business. If regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control or change in our corporate structure, we may lose our ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. Additionally, if regulators do not approve transactions involving a change of control of the Company, all of our institutions may lose their ability to participate in federal student financial aid programs. If we experience a change of control under the standards of applicable state agencies or accrediting agencies or ED, we or the affected institutions must seek the approval of the relevant agencies. Some of these transactions or events, such as a significant acquisition or disposition of our common stock by third parties on the open market or through a tender offer, may be beyond our control. The adverse regulatory effect of a change of ownership resulting in a change of control could also discourage bids for our outstanding shares of common stock at a premium and could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to demonstrate "administrative capability" to ED, our business could suffer. ED regulations specify extensive criteria an institution must satisfy to establish that it has the requisite "administrative capability" to participate in federal student financial aid programs. These criteria require, among other things, that the institution: •comply with all applicable federal student financial aid regulations; 55 Table of Contents •have capable and sufficient personnel to administer the federal student financial aid programs; •have acceptable methods of defining and measuring the satisfactory academic progress of its students; •provide financial aid counseling to its students; and •submit all reports and financial statements required by the regulations. If an institution fails to satisfy any of these criteria, ED may: •require the repayment of federal student financial aid funds; •transfer the institution from the "advance" system of payment of federal student financial aid funds to the "reimbursement" system of payment or cash monitoring; •place the institution on provisional certification status; or •commence a proceeding to impose a fine or to limit, suspend or terminate the participation of the institution in federal student financial aid programs. Should one or more of our institutions be limited in their access to, or lose, federal student financial aid funds due to their failure to demonstrate administrative capability, our business could be materially adversely affected. Regulatory agencies or third parties may conduct compliance reviews, commence investigations, bring claims or institute litigation against us. Because we operate in a highly regulated industry, we may be subject from time to time to program reviews, audits, investigations, claims of non-compliance, or lawsuits by governmental agencies or third parties, which may allege statutory violations, regulatory infractions, or common law causes of action. If the results of the investigations are unfavorable to us or if we are unable to successfully defend against third-party lawsuits, we may be required to pay money damages or be subject to fines, penalties, injunctions or other censure that could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We also may be limited in our ability to open new schools or add new program offerings and may be adversely impacted by the negative publicity surrounding an investigation or lawsuit. Even if we adequately address the issues raised by an agency review or investigation or successfully defend a third-party lawsuit, we may suffer interruptions in cash flows due to, among other things, transfer from the advance funding to the "reimbursement" or "heightened cash monitoring" method of Title IV program funding, and we may have to devote significant financial and management resources to address these issues, which could harm our business. Additionally, we may experience adverse collateral consequences, including declines in the number of students enrolling at our schools and the willingness of third parties to deal with us or our schools, as a result of any negative publicity associated with such reviews, claims or litigation. Certain regulatory authorities have initiated investigations into us and other companies in the for-profit education sector that could result in adverse actions, fines, penalties or other censure that may materially and adversely affect our business. As previously reported, since October 2010 the Company has been contacted by attorneys general offices in the states of Florida, California, Massachusetts, New York, Oregon and Illinois. Each of those states' attorneys general office has requested from the Company, either through subpoenas, civil investigative demands, or informal requests, extensive document requests regarding our business. In every state but California and Oregon, we understand the attorneys general are conducting broad inquiries into private sector education companies in their respective states, and not solely into the Company. In California, the California Attorney General's Office has requested information ostensibly 56 Table of Contents pursuant to the Stipulated Judgment agreed to by the Company in July 2007 to determine compliance by the Company with the judgment and certain other matters. The Company cooperated with the California Attorney General's reasonable requests for information, but objected to certain overly-broad requests which appeared to be unrelated to the 2007 Stipulated Judgment. The Company has not received further communication from the California Attorney General's office in many months and believes it has responded adequately to its requests. Additionally, on June 28, 2012, the Company received a letter from the Oregon Attorney General's office in which it made a small number of recommendations as a result of its investigation and also closed the investigation without taking any enforcement action. The Company is cooperating with the other ongoing attorneys general investigations. On April 11, 2011 the Company's Everest Institute in Jonesboro, Georgia was sent a subpoena from the Atlanta office of ED's Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") requesting documents related to the Jonesboro campus's employment and placement rates reported to its accrediting agency, as well as correspondence with the accrediting agency. The Company has become aware that this matter is being supervised by an Assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia who focuses primarily on civil False Claims Act matters, including qui tams. The Company does not know whether a qui tam action has been filed under seal or whether the United States Attorney's Office has made a determination about whether to file a False Claims Act lawsuit in this matter. The Company is cooperating with the OIG's request. Additionally, the Company has also received an inquiry from the Assistant U.S. Attorney involved in reviewing the previously-disclosed Lee qui tam matter regarding the Company's student referral practices. Recently, the Assistant U.S. Attorney indicated he had no concerns about the student referral practices but requested additional information related to attendance procedures at two Florida campuses. The Company infers, but has been unable to confirm, that this inquiry may relate to another qui tam filed under seal that is pending the government's investigation and intervention decision. Separately, on April 24, 2012, a complaint captioned United States of America ex rel. Carolina Marion v. Heald College Inc. and Corinthian Colleges Inc. was filed under seal in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. Since the complaint was filed under seal, the Company has not been able to obtain a copy of the complaint but infers that this too is a qui tam action brought under the False Claims Act. On April 3, 2012, the Company was served with a Civil Investigative Demand ("CID") from the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"). The CID stated that its purpose is to "determine whether for-profit postsecondary companies, student loan origination and servicing providers, or other unnamed persons, have engaged or are engaging in unlawful acts or practices relating to the advertising, marketing, or origination of private student loans." The CID contains extensive interrogatories and document production demands related to the Company's involvement with student loans and many other aspects of the Company's business. The Company has contacted the CFPB regarding the CID and has retained outside counsel to assist it in this matter. The Company has objected to the inquiry by filing a petition with the CFPB to set aside or modify the CID, but has voluntarily provided documents and other information to the CFPB. The Company believes that its acts and practices relating to student loans are lawful and essential to preserving our students' access to post-secondary education. We are continuing to cooperate with these investigations, but we cannot predict their ultimate resolution. We expect to continue to incur significant legal costs and other expenses in connection with responding to them. We may be required to pay damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage related to these matters. Government investigations, including the pending investigations in which we are involved, and any related legal and administrative proceedings, may result in the institution of administrative, injunctive or other proceedings against us and/or our institutions, officers or employees, or the imposition of fines, penalties or suspensions, or other remedies and sanctions. Any 57 Table of Contents such material costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Investigations, claims and actions against other companies in our sector could adversely affect our business and stock price. During the past decade, we and other companies in the for-profit postsecondary education industry have been subject to intense regulatory scrutiny. In some cases, allegations of wrongdoing have resulted in reviews or investigations by the Justice Department, state attorneys general, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), ED, state agencies, accrediting agencies and other entities. These allegations, reviews and investigations and the accompanying adverse publicity could have a negative impact on the for-profit postsecondary education sector in general, our business and the market price of our common stock. Failure to comply with extensive Canadian regulations could affect the ability of our Canadian schools to participate in Canadian financial aid programs. Our post-secondary schools in Canada derive a significant percentage of their revenue on a cash basis from Canadian governmental financial aid programs, and our Canadian students receive loans under student financial aid programs. Our Canadian schools must meet eligibility standards to administer these programs and must comply with extensive statutes, rules, regulations and requirements. If our Canadian schools cannot meet these and other eligibility standards or fail to comply with applicable requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the Canadian and Ontario provincial governments continuously review the legislative, regulatory and other requirements relating to student financial assistance programs due to political and budgetary pressures. Although we do not currently anticipate a significant reduction in the funding for these programs, any change that significantly reduces funding or the ability of our schools to participate in these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Operational and Economic Risks That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business North American macroeconomic conditions, particularly unemployment, could affect the demand for our services. The North American economy has been in the midst of a prolonged economic downturn in recent years. These conditions contributed to a portion of our enrollment growth in recent fiscal years as more potential new students were attracted to our schools to advance their education and improve their job prospects. Improvements in the North American economy, including overall reductions in unemployment, could negatively affect overall demand for our educational services and contribute to declines in new student enrollment. A more robust economic recovery in North America may further negatively impact demand for our services from potential new students, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our discount student loan programs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our discount student loan programs have enabled students who have exhausted all available government-sponsored or other aid and are ineligible for private loans from other financial institutions to borrow a portion of their tuition and other educational expenses at our schools if they or a co-borrower meet certain criteria. Historically, we had developed several loan programs with origination and servicing providers such as Sallie Mae for students with low credit scores who otherwise would not 58 Table of Contents qualify for loans. These loan programs required that we pay a discount fee to the origination and servicing providers of the loans as a reserve against future defaults on these loans. We have historically referred to these types of loans as "discount loans," since we incurred a portion of the default risk related to these students' loans by taking a discount on the disbursement. In early 2008 we were informed by Sallie Mae and two other origination and servicing providers that they would no longer make private loans available for students who present higher credit risks (i.e. subprime borrowers). In the face of this change in policy, we created a new student lending program with a different origination and servicing provider, Genesis, who specialized in subprime credit. This Genesis loan program has characteristics similar to our previous "discount loan" programs. Under the Genesis loan program, we paid a discount to the origination and servicing provider. As with our previous discount loan program, we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, as the collectability of these amounts is not reasonably assured. However, unlike our previous discount loan programs, under our Genesis discount loan program we have both the right and the obligation (subject to certain limitations in our agreement with Genesis), to acquire the related loans. Since we initiated the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, we have acquired all of the loans that have been originated. On June 29, 2012, the Company amended the loan origination agreement and related documents with ASFG, LLC ("ASFG"). The original agreement with ASFG was entered into on June 29, 2011 for the purpose of creating a new private education discount loan program for our students. Pursuant to the amended loan origination agreement, ASFG has indicated it intends to fund approximately $775 million in new student loans through June 2015. Under this agreement, an unaffiliated bank will make private education loans to eligible students and, subsequently, sell those loans to ASFG or its designee. During the second quarter of fiscal 2012 the Company completed the transition from the Genesis discount loan program to the ASFG discount loan program. This ASFG loan program has characteristics similar to our previous "discount loan" programs. As with the previous discount third party loan programs, under this ASFG program we pay a discount to ASFG for any loans purchased by ASFG and record the discount as a reduction to revenue ratably over the program length as the related revenue is recognized. However, unlike our previous third party discount loan programs, pursuant to a backup loan purchase agreement entered into in connection with the loan origination agreement, the Company will be obligated to purchase any of the student loans on which no payment has been made for over 90 days. Under this backup loan purchase agreement, the Company's maximum obligation (including the initial discount payment) could be equal to the face amount of loans originated under this loan program, although the Company expects its ultimate risk under this loan program to be substantially similar to the risks it faces under our Genesis discount loan program. Federal, state and local laws and public policy relating to the protection of consumers apply to the origination, servicing and collection of the loans that we purchase under this program. Any violation of the various federal, state and local laws, including, in some instances, violations of these laws by parties not under our control, may result in losses on the loans that we purchase or may limit our ability to collect all or part of the principal or interest on the loans that we purchase. This may be the case even if we are not directly responsible for the violations by such parties. Federal or state financial regulators also might delay or suspend the new student loan program for a variety of reasons. Additionally, depending on the terms of the loans, state consumer credit regulators may assert that our activities in connection with the new student loan program require us to obtain one or more licenses, registrations or other forms of regulatory approvals, any of which may not be able to be obtained in a timely manner, if at all. The CFPB may also take the position that these loans constitute unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices. 59 Table of Contents For the Genesis and ASFG discount loans we acquire, we bear the risks of collection. Therefore, even though we record the discount as a reduction to revenue, to the extent collections are less than the net amount of revenue recorded, we may still experience increase in our allowance for doubtful accounts and our discount expense may increase. Factors that may impact our ability to collect these loans include general economic conditions, compliance with laws applicable to the origination, servicing and collection of loans, the quality of our loan servicers' performance and the priority that borrowers, particularly students who did not complete or were dissatisfied with their programs of study, attach to repaying these loans as compared to other obligations. All of these factors could result in the Genesis and ASFG discount loan programs having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If students fail to pay their outstanding balances, our business will be harmed. We offer a variety of payment plans to help students pay that portion of their education expense not covered by financial aid programs. These balances are unsecured and not guaranteed. Losses related to unpaid student balances in excess of the amounts we have reserved could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our marketing and advertising efforts may not be effective in attracting prospective students. In order to maintain and increase our revenues and margins, we must continue to attract new students in an effective and efficient manner. If we are unable to successfully advertise and market our schools, our ability to attract and enroll new students could be adversely impacted and, consequently, our financial performance could suffer. We use marketing tools such as the Internet, radio, television and print media advertising to promote our schools and programs. Our representatives also make presentations at high schools. If we are unable to utilize these advertising methods in a cost-effective manner or if our other costs limit the amount of funds we can contribute to advertising, our revenue and margins may suffer. Additionally, we rely on the general reputation of our schools and referrals from current students, alumni and employers as a source of new students. Among the factors that could prevent us from successfully marketing and advertising our schools and programs are the failure of our marketing tools and strategy to appeal to prospective students or current student and/or employer dissatisfaction with our program offerings or results and diminished access to high school campuses. If we cannot effectively identify, acquire and integrate additional schools, it could harm our business. We expect to continue to rely on acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We often engage in evaluations of, and discussions with, possible acquisition candidates. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or that we will be able to acquire any of the acquisition candidates on favorable terms. Furthermore, we cannot make assurances that any acquired schools can be successfully integrated into our operations or be operated profitably. Acquisitions involve a number of risks that include: •diversion of management resources; •integration of the acquired schools' operations; •adverse short-term effects on reported operating results; and •possible loss of key employees. Continued growth through acquisitions may also subject us to unanticipated business or regulatory uncertainties or liabilities. When we acquire an existing school, we typically allocate a significant portion of the purchase price to fixed assets, curriculum, goodwill and intangibles, such as covenants not-to-compete, trade names and accreditations. The Company does not amortize goodwill, accreditation, or trade names as these assets meet the indefinite life criteria outlined in the accounting 60 Table of Contents guidance. Curricula are amortized over their useful lives ranging generally from three to fifteen years and Student Relationships was amortized over their useful life of one year. Goodwill is tested annually or more frequently for impairment. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment, by comparing their fair values to their carrying amounts. Separable intangible assets that are not deemed to have indefinite lives are amortized over their useful lives. In addition, our acquisition of a school is a change of ownership of that school, which may result in the temporary suspension of that school's participation in federal student financial aid programs until it obtains ED's approval. If we fail to successfully manage our acquisitions, our business would likely suffer. Failure to effectively manage opening new schools and adding new services could harm our business. Establishing new schools requires us to make investments in management, capital expenditures, marketing expenses and other resources. To open a new school, we are also required to obtain appropriate state and accrediting agency approvals. In addition, to be eligible for federal student financial aid programs, the new school is required to be certified as eligible to receive Title IV funds by ED. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully open new schools in the future. Our failure to effectively manage the operations of newly established schools could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key personnel. We depend on key personnel, including Jack D. Massimino, Kenneth S. Ord, Robert D. Bosic, Beth A. Wilson, William B. Buchanan, Mark L. Pelesh, Stan A. Mortensen, Robert C. Owen and David A. Poldoian, to effectively operate our business. If any of these people left our Company and we failed to effectively manage a transition to new people, our business could suffer. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified faculty, school presidents and administrators and campus support center management. We may have difficulty locating and hiring qualified personnel, and retaining such personnel once hired. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could cause our business to suffer. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company difficult. Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that may delay, defer or inhibit a future acquisition of our Company not approved by our board of directors. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain the approval of our Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock with voting, conversion and other rights as it determines, without any further vote or action by our stockholders. By using preferred stock, we could: •discourage a proxy contest; •make the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock more difficult; or •limit the price investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We face litigation that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our schools are subject to various lawsuits, investigations and claims, covering a wide range of matters, including, but not limited to, claims involving our current and former students, alleged violations of federal and state laws, false claims made to the federal government and routine 61 Table of Contents employment matters. It is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs in excess of our insurance coverage or current reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. We could also incur substantial legal costs, and management's attention and resources could be diverted from our business. Please see Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," for more detailed information on these litigation risks. Failure to keep pace with changing market needs and technology could harm our business. Prospective employers of our graduates increasingly demand that their entry-level employees possess appropriate technological skills. Educational programs at our schools, particularly programs in information technology, must keep pace with these evolving requirements. If we cannot respond to changes in industry requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Competitors with greater resources could harm our business. The post-secondary education market is highly competitive, and has become ever more so over the past several years. Our schools compete with traditional public and private two-year and four-year colleges and universities and other proprietary schools, including those that offer on-line learning programs. Some public and private colleges and universities, as well as other private career-oriented schools, may offer programs similar to those of our schools. Although tuition at many private non-profit institutions is higher than tuition at our schools, some public institutions are able to charge lower tuition than our schools, due in part to government subsidies, government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions and other financial sources not available to proprietary schools. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Failure to obtain additional capital in the future could reduce our ability to grow. We believe that funds from operations, cash, investments and access to our credit facility will be adequate to fund our currently identified plans. However, we may need additional debt or equity financing in order to carry out our growth strategies. The amount and timing of such additional financing will vary depending on the timing and size of acquisitions, our availability to access credit markets, and the sellers' willingness to provide financing themselves. To the extent that we require additional financing in the future and are unable to obtain such additional financing, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes or economic downturns occur in specific geographic areas where we have a high concentration of schools, our business could be harmed. We have large numbers of schools concentrated in certain geographic areas. For instance, we have a high concentration of schools in California, Florida, Texas, Georgia, Michigan, the Province of Ontario and other states and cities. We expect to continue to have high concentrations of schools in large metropolitan areas as we create new branch campuses and acquire new schools. These geographic concentrations may change or intensify over time. If natural disasters, terrorist attacks, public transit strikes, economic developments or other adverse events occur or are more intensively felt in some of these concentrated geographic areas, our business and results of operations could be disproportionately affected compared to the rest of the United States and Canada. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 62 Table of Contents 