Item 1A. Risk Factors This Report includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including, in particular, forward-looking statements under the headings “Item 7 - - Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include statements regarding the Company’s intent, belief or current expectations with respect to (i) its financing plans, (ii) trends affecting its financial condition or results of operations, and (iii) the impact of competition. The words “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements; however, this Report also contains other forward-looking statements in addition to historical information. Any forward-looking statements made by the Company are not guarantees of future performance and there are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. This means that indicated results may not be realized. Factors that could cause the actual results of the Company in future periods to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following: 6 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Financial Condition and Recently Completed Reorganization We Have a History of Losses and Substantial Indebtedness and Cash Flow Obligations. We Cannot Assure You that We Will Achieve Profitability in 2008. We have incurred significant losses and negative cash flows from operations in recent years. The Company incurred net losses of $20.8 million and $18.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and had negative net cash used in operating activities of $2.8 million and $17.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, the Company has an accumulated deficit of $434.1 million. As of December 31, 2007, WHX and its unrestricted subsidiaries had cash of approximately $0.7 million and current liabilities of approximately $7.3 million, including $5.8 million of mandatorily redeemable preferred shares plus accrued dividends payable to a related party. WHX is a holding company and we have as our sole source of cash flow, distributions from our operating subsidiaries, H&H and Bairnco, or other discrete transactions. H&H’s credit facilities effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets to WHX (with the exception of (i) an unsecured loan for required payments to the defined benefit pension plan sponsored by WHX (the “WHX Pension Plan”), (ii) an unsecured loan for other uses in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $7.0 million, of which $3.4 million has already been distributed, (iii) the loan, distribution or other advance of up to approximately $7.4 million, subject to certain limitations, to the extent loaned by Steel Partners to H&H, of which approximately $3.2 million has already been distributed, and (iv) up to $13.1 million to be used by WHX solely to make a contribution to the WHX Pension Plan, which contribution of $13.0 million was made on September 12, 2007. H&H’s credit facilities are collateralized by substantially all of H&H’s assets and contain affirmative, negative, and financial covenants (including, EBITDA shall not be less than $30.0 million, the Senior Leverage Ratio shall not be greater than 4.125:1.0, and Capital Expenditures shall not be made in excess of $12.0 million in any 12 month period, as such terms are defined therein). Similarly, Bairnco’s credit facilities and term loan do not permit it to make any distribution, pay any dividend or transfer any cash or other assets to WHX other than common stock of Bairnco. WHX’s ongoing operating cash flow requirements consist of funding the minimum requirements of the WHX Pension Plan and paying administrative costs. H&H’s availability under its credit facilities as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $12.3 million, and as of December 31, 2006, was approximately $19.1 million. As of February 29, 2008, H&H’s availability under its credit facilities was approximately $18.6 million. H&H and Bairnco have not been in compliance with certain of their bank covenants and have been required to obtain waivers from their lenders related to such covenants. Following the receipt of such waivers, the Company was in compliance. On January 22, 2008, H&H and certain of H&H's subsidiaries amended the Loan and Security Agreement with Wachovia Bank, National Association (the "Wachovia Facilities"), effective as of January 11, 2008 to, among other things, (i) provide for a temporary reduction in the reserves required under Wachovia Facilities from $2,500,000 to $1,000,000 until April 15, 2008, and (ii) revise the criteria of Foreign Accounts to be included in the calculation of Eligible Accounts, as defined thereunder. On February 14, 2008, H&H and certain of its subsidiaries amended the Wachovia Facilities and its Loan and Security Agreement with Steel Partners (the "Term B Loan"). Each of these agreements was amended to, among other things, (i) reset the levels of certain financial covenants, (ii) allow for the prepayment of the Term B Loan in the amount of and upon receipt by H&H of a capital or debt infusion from the Company from proceeds of a WHX rights offering, less $5 million which shall be used to pay down the revolver under the Wachovia Facilities, (iii) extend the maturity date to June 30, 2009, (iv) consent to the terms and conditions of that certain Security Agreement by H&H in favor of Ableco Finance LLC ("Ableco") (the "H&H Security Agreement") and that certain Limited Continuing Guaranty by H&H in Favor of Ableco (the "H&H Guaranty"), and (v) amend applicable interest rates. In addition, the Wachovia Facilities were also amended to provide for an additional term loan of $4,000,000 to H&H and its subsidiaries. In connection with the Bairnco Acquisition, initial financing was provided by Steel Partners through two credit facilities. Steel Partners extended to BZA bridge loans in the aggregate principal amount of approximately $86.5 million pursuant to a Loan and Security Agreement (the “Bridge Loan Agreement”), between BZA and Bairnco, as borrowers, and Steel Partners, as lender. In addition, Steel Partners extended to WHX a $15.0 million subordinated loan, which is unsecured at the WHX level, pursuant to a Subordinated Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of April 17, 2007 (the “Subordinated Loan Agreement”) between WHX, as borrower, and Steel Partners, as lender. WHX contributed the $15.0 million proceeds of the subordinated loan to BZA as a capital contribution. On July 18, 2007, Bairnco and certain of its subsidiaries entered into (i) a Credit Agreement (the “First Lien Credit Agreement”) with Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. (“Wells Fargo”), as arranger and administrative agent thereunder which provides for a revolving credit facility to the borrowers thereunder in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $30.0 million and a term loan facility of $28.0 million, (ii) a Credit Agreement (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement”) with Ableco, as administrative agent thereunder which provides for a term loan facility to the borrowers thereunder of $48.0 million, and (iii) an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “Subordinated Debt Credit Agreement”) with Steel Partners as lender providing for a term loan of approximately $31.8 million, and completed the refinancing of: (A) all existing indebtedness of Bairnco and its subsidiaries under its senior secured credit facility dated as of November 9, 2006 with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Bairnco Senior Secured Credit Facility”), and (B) approximately $56.7 million 7 Table of Contents of the indebtedness under the Bridge Loan Agreement. The Subordinated Debt Credit Agreement amended and restated the Bridge Loan Agreement. The scheduled maturity date of the indebtedness under each of the First Lien Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement is July 17, 2012, and the scheduled maturity date under the Subordinated Debt Credit Agreement is January 17, 2013. The First Lien Credit Agreement and Second Lien Credit Agreement contain affirmative, negative, and financial covenants (including, for the applicable periods set forth therein, permitting trailing twelve months (“TTM”) EBITDA to be less than $14.0 million to $18.0 million, having a Leverage Ratio of more than 6.74:1.0 to 5.0:1.0, having a Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio of less than 0.75:1.0 to 1.0:1.0 and making Capital Expenditures in excess of $9.0 million in any fiscal year, as such terms are defined therein). The Subordinated Debt Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, events of default and indemnification provisions. Bairnco’s availability under its credit facilities as of December 31, 2007 was approximately $5.3 million, and as of February 29, 2008, was approximately $6.1 million. On February 14, 2008, Bairnco and certain of its subsidiaries amended the First Lien Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement to, among other things, reset the levels of certain financial covenants. The Second Lien Credit Agreement was also amended to provide for, among other things, a limited guaranty by H&H of up to $10 million, secured by a second lien on all of the assets of H&H pursuant to the terms and conditions of the H&H Security Agreement and the H&H Guaranty. In addition, each of the First Lien Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement was also amended to, among other things, provide for either (i) the Company to invest $10 million from the proceeds of the WHX rights offering by March 31, 2008 in Bairnco and for such proceeds to be used to prepay at least $10 million under the Wells Fargo term loan, (ii) Steel Partners to issue a limited $10 million guaranty, or (iii) a capital or debt infusion of $1 0 million by either Steel Partners or WHX into Bairnco, or any combination of the foregoing. In recent years, WHX experienced liquidity issues. On March 7, 2005, WHX filed a voluntary petition (the “Bankruptcy Filing”) to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”) with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (the “Bankruptcy Court”). WHX continued to operate its business and own and manage its properties as a debtor-in-possession (the “Debtor”) under the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court until it emerged from protection under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on July 29, 2005. Since WHX emerged from bankruptcy, due to covenant restrictions in H&H and Bairnco’s respective credit facilities, there have been no dividends from H&H or Bairnco to WHX and WHX’s sources of cash flow have consisted of: · The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred stock by a newly created subsidiary in October 2005, which was invested in the equity of a public company (CoSine Communications Inc.); · Partial payment by H&H of a subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million, which required the approval of the banks participating in the H&H credit facilities. Subsequent to this transaction in 2006, the remaining intercompany loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million was converted to equity; · As permitted by a March 29, 2007 amendment and waiver to the H&H credit facilities, an unsecured loan from H&H for required payments to the WHX Pension Plan, and an unsecured loan for other uses in the aggregate principal amount not to exceed $3.5 million (subsequently amended on February 14, 2008 to $7.0 million), of which approximately $3.4 million has already been distributed; · A $15.0 million subordinated loan from Steel Partners pursuant to the Subordinated Loan Agreement which WHX used to fund a capital contribution to BZA to finance in part the Bairnco Acquisition; · As permitted by a July 27, 2007 amendment to the H&H credit facilities, an unsecured loan, distribution or other advance from H&H to WHX of up to approximately $7.4 million, subject to certain limitations, to the extent loaned by Steel Partners to H&H, of which approximately $3.2 million has already been distributed; and · As permitted by a September 10, 2007 amendment to the H&H credit facilities, an unsecured loan from H&H of $13.0 million which was used by WHX to make a payment to the WHX Pension Plan on September 12, 2007. We do not anticipate that the Company will have any additional sources of cash flow other than (i) as described above, (ii) from operations, (iii) from the sale of non-core assets, and (iv) from the proceeds of the proposed rights offering. In addition, the proceeds of the proposed rights offering are expected to be used to redeem preferred stock and to retire indebtedness, and accordingly will not be available for general corporate purposes, except that $5 million of which shall be used to pay down the revolver under the Wachovia Facilities pursuant to the February 14, 2008 amendment to H&H’s credit facilities. 8 Table of Contents We Sponsor a Defined Benefit Pension Plan Which Could Subject Us to Substantial Cash Funding Requirements in the Future. On September 15, 2006, WHX was required to make a minimum contribution to the WHX Pension Plan for the 2005 plan year in the amount of $15.5 million. However, we did not make that contribution due to liquidity issues. We applied to the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for a funding waiver for the 2005 plan year, and on December 20, 2006, the IRS granted a conditional waiver of the minimum funding requirements for the 2005 plan year (the “IRS Waiver”) in accordance with section 412 (d) of the Internal Revenue Code and section 303 of the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). On December 28, 2006, WHX, H&H, and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the “PBGC”) entered into a settlement agreement (the “PBGC Settlement Agreement”) in connection with the IRS Waiver and certain other matters. The IRS Waiver is subject to certain conditions, including a requirement that we meet the minimum funding requirements for the WHX Pension Plan for the plan years ending December 31, 2006 through 2010, without applying for a waiver of such requirements. The PBGC Settlement Agreement and related agreements include the following: (i) the amortization of the waived amount of $15.5 million (the “Waiver Amount”) over a period of five years, (ii) the PBGC’s consent to increase borrowings under H&H’s senior credit facility to $125 million in connection with the closing of an acquisition (iii) the resolution of any potential issues under Section 4062(e) of ERISA, in connection with the cessation of operations at certain facilities owned by WHX, H&H or their subsidiaries, and (iv) the granting to the PBGC of subordinate liens on the assets of H&H and its subsidiaries, and specified assets of WHX, to collateralize WHX’s obligation to pay the Waiver Amount to the WHX Pension Plan and to make certain payments to the WHX Pension Plan in the event of its termination. Payments made during 2006 and 2007 totaled $13.1 million and $21.6 million, respectively. On September 12, 2007, WHX made a payment to the WHX Pension Plan of $13.0 million, which exceeded the minimum required contribution under ERISA. As a result of such accelerated contribution, our required contributions to the WHX Pension Plan over the next five years are expected to significantly decline, and the Company believes that the full amount of the IRS Waiver has been repaid, and all liens granted to the PBGC pursuant to the PBGC Settlement Agreement have been released. Our expected minimum funding requirements for the WHX pension plan are $0.0, $2.5 million, $2.7 million, $0.8 million and $0.0 for 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. All minimum funding requirement calculations reflect the Pension Protection Act of 2006 as well as all other relevant rules. In addition, the Company entered into an agreement with the PBGC on July 24, 2003 in which, among other things, WHX agreed that it will not contest a future action by the PBGC to terminate the WHX Pension Plan in connection with a future WPC Group facility shutdown. In the event that such a plan termination occurs, the PBGC has agreed to release WHX from any claims relating to the shutdown. However, there may be PBGC claims related to unfunded liabilities that may exist as a result of a termination of the WHX Pension Plan. Please see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity, Cash Flow and Commitments—Other Obligations—Pension Plan Contingency Arising from the WPC Group Bankruptcy.” Our pension benefit costs are valued annually. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Material changes in our pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in market conditions not consistent with the assumptions, changes in assumptions, or other changes such as a plan termination, in which case there may be additional claims related to payment for unfunded liabilities. If We Are Unable to Access Funds Generated by Our Subsidiaries We May Not Be Able to Meet Our Financial Obligations. Because we are a holding company that conducts our operations through our subsidiaries, we depend on those entities for dividends, distributions and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations. Failure by one of our subsidiaries to generate cash flow and obtain refinancing of its debt, on terms which would permit dividends, distributions or other payments to WHX, will likely have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As previously described, due to covenant restrictions in H&H and Bairnco’s respective credit facilities, there have been no dividends from H&H or Bairnco to WHX, and WHX’s sources of cash have been extremely limited. Risks Relating to Our Business In Many Cases, Our Competitors Are Larger Than Us and Have Manufacturing and Financial Resources Greater Than We Do, Which May Have a Negative Impact on Our Business, Operating Results or Financial Condition. There are many companies, both domestic and foreign, which manufacture products of the type we manufacture. Some of these competitors are larger than we are and have financial resources greater than we do. Some of these competitors enjoy certain other competitive advantages, including greater name recognition, greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, a larger installed base of customers, and well-established relationships with current and potential customers. Competition is based on quality, technology, service, and price and in some industries, new product introduction, each of which is of equal importance. We may not be able to compete successfully and competition may have a negative impact on our business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices, and accordingly reducing our revenues and profits. In our served markets, we compete against large private and public companies. This results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. In addition, the ongoing move of our customer base in the Arlon EM segment to low cost China manufacturing reduces pricing and increases competition. Significant competition could in turn lead to lower prices, lower levels of shipments and/or higher costs in some markets that could have a negative effect on our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our Profitability May Be Adversely Affected by Fluctuations in the Cost of Raw Materials. We are exposed to market risk and price fluctuation related to the purchase of natural gas, electricity, precious metal, steel products and certain non-ferrous metals used as raw materials. Our results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which either the prices of such commodities are unusually high or their availability is restricted. In addition, we hold precious metal positions that are subject to market fluctuations. Precious metal inventory is included in inventory using the last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting. We enter into forward or future contracts with major financial institutions to reduce the economic risk of price fluctuations. Some of Our Raw Materials Are Available From a Limited Number of Suppliers. There Can Be No Assurance that the Production of These Raw Materials Will Be Readily Available. Several raw materials used in Bairnco’s products are purchased from chemical companies that are proprietary in nature. Other raw materials are purchased from a single approved vendor on a “sole source” basis. Although alternative sources could be developed in the future if necessary, the qualification procedure can take several months or longer and could therefore interrupt the production of our products and services if the primary raw material source became unexpectedly unavailable. Our Business Is Subject to General Economic Conditions. We operate in a wide range of manufacturing businesses that serve customers in the construction, electric, electronic, home appliance OEM, automotive, refrigeration, utility, telecommunications, medical and energy related industries. As a result, our results of operations tend not to be disproportionately affected by any one industry or segment, but tend to be affected by general economic conditions and other factors worldwide, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor costs and other factors beyond its control. The demand for our customers’ products and, therefore, our products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. The Loss of Any of Our Major Customers Could Adversely Affect Our Revenues and Financial Health. While no single customer accounted for more than 5% of net sales in 2007, H&H’s 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of H&H’s consolidated net sales. In 2007, Bairnco’s 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 17% of Bairnco’s consolidated net sales. Together, the 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 25% of consolidated WHX net sales. If we were to lose any of our relationships with these customers, revenues and profitability could fall significantly. Our Business Strategy Includes Selective Acquisitions and Acquisitions Entail Numerous Risks. Our business strategy includes, among other things, strategic and selective acquisitions. This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, whether or not we are successful in finding acquisitions, and the need to finance such acquisitions with additional equity and/or debt. In addition, once found, acquisitions entail further risks, including: unanticipated costs and liabilities of the acquired businesses, including environmental liabilities that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers and losing key employees of the acquired businesses. Our Competitive Advantage Could Be Reduced if Our Intellectual Property or Related Proprietary Manufacturing Processes Become Known by Our Competitors or if Technological Changes Reduce Our Customers’ Need for Our Products. We own a number of trademarks and patents (in the United States and other jurisdictions) on our products and related proprietary manufacturing processes. In addition to trademark and patent protection, we rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that we seek to protect. If our intellectual property is not properly protected by us or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, our protection against competitive products could be diminished. 10 Table of Contents We Could Incur Significant Costs, Including Remediation Costs, as a Result of Complying With Environmental Laws. Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, foreign and local authorities relating to the protection of the environment. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. We have incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by the Company (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which we have disposed of hazardous substances. As of December 31, 2007, we have established a reserve totaling $7.8 million with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. This reserve may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of remediation, including discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations, which could result in significant additional costs. In addition, we expect that future regulations, and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations, may subject us to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary for us to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps, which may be at a substantial cost to us. Our Results of Operations May Be Negatively Affected by Variations in Interest Rates. Our credit facilities are collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, and property, plant and equipment. These credit facilities are variable rate obligations, which expose us to interest rate risks. A one percent (1%) change in interest rates on our variable outstanding debt obligations as of December 31, 2007 would increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $3.6 million on an annual basis. Our Earnings Could Decrease if There Is A Decline in Governmental Funding for Military Operations. If, as a result of a loss of funding or a significant cut in federal budgets, spending on military projects were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows related to the Arlon EM segment could be negatively affected. Potential Supply Constraints and Significant Price Fluctuations of Electricity, Natural Gas and Other Petroleum Based Products Could Adversely Affect Our Business. In our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, natural gas, fuel and other petroleum-based commodities, including adhesives and other products. The availability and pricing of these commodities are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such commodities and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these commodities could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. Adverse Weather Could Materially Affect Our Results. A significant portion of our business in the Kasco segment involves on-site delivery, service and repair. In addition, a significant amount of our business in the Arlon CM segment is to the outdoor sign industry. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers’ short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. Severe weather such as hurricanes, tropical storms and earthquakes can damage our facilities, resulting in increased repair costs and business disruption. A Failure to Manage Industry Consolidation Could Negatively Impact Our Profitability. The industries within which we operate have experienced recent consolidations. This trend tends to put more purchasing power in the hands of a few large customers who can dictate lower prices of our products. Failure to effectively negotiate pricing agreements and implement on-going cost reduction projects can have a material negative impact on our profitability. Our Future Success Depends Greatly Upon Attracting and Retaining Qualified Personnel. A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. Litigation Could Affect Our Profitability. The nature of our businesses expose us to various litigation matters including product liability claims, employment, health and safety matters, environmental matters, regulatory and administrative proceedings. We contest these matters vigorously and make insurance claims where appropriate. However, litigation is inherently costly and unpredictable, making it difficult to accurately estimate the outcome of any litigation. Although we make accruals as we believe warranted, the amounts that we accrue could vary significantly from any amounts we actually pay due to the inherent uncertainties in the estimation process. As of December 31, 2007, we have accrued approximately $7.8 million for environmental remediation costs but have not made any accruals for other litigation matters. 11 Table of Contents Our Internal Controls Over Financial Reporting May Not Be Effective and Our Independent Auditors May Not Be Able to Certify as to Their Effectiveness, Which Could Have a Significant and Adverse Effect on Our Business and Reputation. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) thereunder (which we refer to as Section 404) as of December 31, 2007. Section 404 requires us to report on the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In the past, our management has identified ‘‘material weaknesses’’ in our internal controls over financial reporting, which we believe have been remediated. However, any failure to maintain or implement new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Section 404 also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to test the internal controls over financial reporting and report on the effectiveness of such controls. In our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, our independent auditor, Grant Thornton LLP (“GT”), an independent registered public accounting firm, was not required to express an opinion on our internal controls over financial reporting. Prior to the Bairnco Acquisition, Bairnco’s independent auditor, also GT, issued a disclaimer of opinion on both management’s assessment and the effectiveness of Bairnco’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. GT had determined that Bairnco’s management did not support its evaluation with sufficient evidence, including documentation, as a result of not extending its testing into the three months ended December 31, 2006. Because management’s process did not include sufficient evidence, including documentation, GT was unable to apply the procedures required to express an opinion on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. In this same report, Bairnco did not have any material weaknesses identified in their internal controls over financial reporting. GT is not required to issue a report attesting to our internal controls over financial reporting until the year ended December 31, 2008. There can be no assurance that GT will issue an unqualified report attesting to our internal controls over financial reporting at such time. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements or our financials statements could change. We may also be required to incur costs to improve our internal control system and hire additional personnel. This could negatively impact our results of operations. Risk Relating to Our Ownership Structure Warren G. Lichtenstein, Our Chairman, and Certain Other Officers and Directors, Through Their Affiliation with Steel Partners, Has the Ability to Exert Significant Influence Over Our Operations. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman, as the sole managing member of the general partner of Steel Partners, is deemed to own beneficially the shares of our common stock owned by Steel Partners. Steel Partners beneficially owns 5,029,793 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 50.3% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Lichtenstein, as sole managing member and the general partner of Steel Partners, has sole investment and voting control over the shares beneficially owned by Steel Partners and thus has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of any action requiring a stockholder vote, such as amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, as well as matters where the interests of Mr. Lichtenstein and Steel Partners may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, employees of an affiliate of Steel Partners hold positions with WHX, including Glen M. Kassan as Chief Executive Officer and John J. Quicke as Vice President, and as directors, and Jack L. Howard and John H. McNamara Jr. as directors. Mr. Quicke also serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Bairnco. Factors Affecting the Value of Securities Issued Under the Plan of Reorganization There Is No Established Market for Our Common Stock. No established market exists for our common stock. Our common stock is presently quoted on the over-the-counter “Pink Sheets”. No assurance can be made that an active trading market will develop. There can be no assurance as to the degree of price volatility in any market for our common stock that does develop. Transfer restrictions contained in our charter to help preserve our NOLs will generally prevent any person from rapidly acquiring amounts of our common stock such that such person would hold 5% or more of our common stock, in each case for up to ten years after July 29, 2005, as specifically provided in our charter. These transfer restrictions could hinder development of an active market for our common stock. 12 Table of Contents We Do Not Anticipate Paying Dividends on Our Common Stock in the Foreseeable Future Which May Limit Investor Demand. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Such lack of dividend prospects may have an adverse impact on the market demand for our common stock as certain institutional investors may invest only in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our common stock. Item 