ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, including, in particular, forward-looking statements under the headings "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." These statements appear in a number of places in this Report and include statements regarding WHX's intent, belief or current expectations with respect to (i) its financing plans, (ii) trends affecting its financial condition or results of operations, and (iii) the impact of competition. The words "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements; however, this Report also contains other forward-looking statements in addition to historical information. Any forward-looking statements made by WHX are not guarantees of future performance and there are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. This means that indicated results may not be realized. Factors that could cause the actual results of the Company in future periods to differ materially include, but are not limited to, the following: RISKS RELATING TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RECENTLY COMPLETED REORGANIZATION THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT AS TO THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company incurred net losses of $34.7 million, $140.4 million and $159.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively and had negative cash flows from operations of $5.0 million and $39.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $394.0 million and a working capital deficit of $122.1 million as of December 31, 2005 and $172.7 million as of December 31, 2004. With the exception of $4.9 million of Other H&H debt, all debt has been classified as current due to noncompliance with certain debt covenants. In March 2005, WHX filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Following WHX's emergence from bankruptcy in July 2005, the Company continued to experience liquidity issues. WHX is a holding company and has as its sole source of cash flow distributions from its operating subsidiary, H&H, or other discrete transactions. H&H's bank credit facilities and term loan effectively do not permit it to transfer any cash or other assets to WHX and are collateralized by substantially all of H&H's assets. WHX has no bank credit facility of its own. WHX's operating cash flow requirements consist of funding the supplemental retirement plan, certain employee-related and administrative costs and the 6 bankruptcy-related expenses, all of which were paid by March 31, 2006. On an ongoing basis, the Company is required to meet the funding requirements for the WHX Pension Plan and pay other administrative costs. Since emerging from bankruptcy, due to covenant restrictions in H&H's credit facilities, there have been no dividends from H&H to WHX and WHX's sources of cash flow have consisted of: o The issuance of $5.1 million in preferred stock by a newly created subsidiary, which was invested in the equity of a small public company; and o Partial payment of the H&H subordinated debt to WHX of $9.0 million, which required the approval of the banks participating in the bank facility. Subsequent to this transaction in 2006, the remaining intercompany loan balance of the subordinated debt of $44.2 million was converted to equity. As of September 30, 2006, WHX had cash of approximately $1.6 million and current liabilities of approximately $6.9 million, including $5.1 million of mandatorily redeemable preferred shares issued by a wholly-owned subsidiary of WHX and payable to a related party. WHX also has significant 2006 cash flow obligations, including without limitation the minimum funding requirement for the WHX Pension Plan, which is estimated to be $20.6 million ($4.9 million was paid in July 2006 and $5.0 million was paid by H&H in October 2006) and estimated other administrative costs for 2006 of approximately $3.8 million. The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation ("PBGC") filed a lien against the assets of H&H to secure, among other things, the funding deficiency existing as a result of WHX's failure to make required contributions to the WHX Pension Plan, and on October 20, 2006, the PBGC entered into a lien subordination agreement with H&H's revolving credit facility lender. This subordination agreement provides that the subordination provisions shall not apply to any debt incurred after December 31, 2006. As previously indicated, there are no current sources of cash available to WHX to satisfy these obligations, other than the sale of its subsidiary's equity investment (estimated market value at September 30, 2006 of $5.0 million), possible insurance proceeds from current litigation, or the sale of H&H (which is not currently contemplated). If WHX does not obtain additional liquidity, it is likely that WHX will not have sufficient cash to continue to operate through the end of 2007. As of September 30, 2006, H&H's availability under its revolving credit facility was $11.7 million; however, based on the Company's forecasted borrowings, these available funds may not be sufficient to fund debt service costs, working capital demands (especially in light of recent high commodity prices, primarily silver and gold), and environmental remediation costs. From January 1, 2006 through September 30, 2006, H&H spent approximately $12.2 million for the remediation of environmental conditions at the site of a former manufacturing facility which it had previously sold. H&H expects to spend approximately an additional $8.8 million through 2007 to complete this remediation. In addition, H&H may owe the buyer of the property a penalty of approximately $3.8 million, based on an estimated completion date in February 2007, which will increase if the remediation is not completed by this date. An arbitration award, which was upheld by a court and is currently on appeal, concluded that H&H will be obligated to pay this penalty. However, H&H is awaiting a judicial decision as to the enforceability of this penalty. The amount of availability provided by H&H's revolving credit facility limits H&H's borrowing ability and is anticipated to continue to limit H&H's liquidity until it can refinance this facility. Additionally, this credit facility contains various financial covenants, including minimum EBITDA, as defined, fixed charge coverage ratio and limitations on capital expenditures. The Company is in violation of certain of these covenants. The facility also includes certain financial reporting requirements, which the Company has been unable to meet. Historically, H&H has been able to obtain amendments to financial covenants when future results were not expected to comply with these covenants. H&H has not obtained an amendment for these covenant violations, and, as a result, is in default of the facility. Accordingly, the Company has classified all debt subject to these covenants as current liabilities in these financial statements. H&H and its bank group have amended its facility as of October 30, 2006 to provide, among other things, an additional $7.0 million term loan upon the filing of its 2005 Annual Report on Form 10-K, and an immediate $3.0 million of borrowing availability under its revolving credit facility. H&H's revolving credit facility matures on March 31, 2007. There can be no assurance that this amendment will provide H&H with the liquidity it requires, that current or future covenant violations will be waived by the banks, or that replacement financing will be obtained upon commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The above conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. These financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. See Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further information on management's plans and liquidity. H&H'S RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY VARIATIONS IN INTEREST RATES. The H&H credit facilities are collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, and property, plant and equipment. These credit facilities are variable rate obligations which expose H&H to interest rate risks. 7 WARREN G. LICHTENSTEIN, OUR CHAIRMAN, AND CERTAIN OTHER OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS, THROUGH THEIR AFFILIATION WITH STEEL PARTNERS II, L.P., HAS THE ABILITY TO EXERT SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER OUR OPERATIONS. Warren G. Lichtenstein, our Chairman, as the sole managing member of the general partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., is also deemed to own beneficially the shares of our common stock owned by Steel Partners II, L.P. Steel Partners II, L.P. beneficially owns 5,029,793 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 50.3% of our outstanding common stock. Mr. Lichtenstein, as sole managing member of the general partner of Steel Partners II, L.P., has sole investment and voting control over the shares beneficially owned by Steel Partners II, L.P. and thus has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs, including the election of our Board of Directors and the approval of any action requiring stockholder vote, such as amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets, as well as matters where the interests of Mr. Lichtenstein and Steel Partners II, L.P. may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in some respects. In addition, employees of an affiliate of Steel Partners II, L.P. hold positions with WHX, including Glen M. Kassan as Chief Executive Officer and John J. Quicke as Vice President, and as directors. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSES IN MANY CASES, H&H'S COMPETITORS ARE LARGER THAN US AND HAVE MANUFACTURING AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES GREATER THAN WE DO, WHICH MAY HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON H&H'S BUSINESS, OPERATING RESULTS OR FINANCIAL CONDITION. There are many companies, both domestic and foreign, which manufacture non-precious wire and tubing products, and other specialty engineered products of the type H&H manufactures. There are also a number of competitors in each of the classes of precious metals products H&H sells. Some of these competitors are larger than H&H is and have financial resources greater than H&H does. Some of these competitors enjoy certain other competitive advantages, including greater name recognition; greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources; a larger installed base of customers; and well-established relationships with current and potential customers. H&H may not be able to compete successfully and competition may have a negative impact on its business, operating results or financial condition by reducing volume of products sold and/or selling prices, and accordingly reducing its revenues and profits. H&H'S PROFITABILITY MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FLUCTUATIONS IN THE COST OF RAW MATERIALS. H&H is exposed to market risk and price fluctuation related to the purchase of natural gas, electricity, precious metals, steel products and certain non-ferrous metals used as raw materials. Its results of operations may be adversely affected during periods in which either the prices of such commodities are unusually high or their availability is restricted. H&H holds precious metal positions that are subject to market fluctuations. Precious metal inventory is included in inventory using the last-in, first-out method of inventory accounting. H&H enters into forward or future contracts with major financial institutions to reduce the economic risk of price fluctuations. WE SPONSOR A DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN WHICH COULD SUBJECT US TO SUBSTANTIAL CASH FUNDING REQUIREMENTS IN THE FUTURE. In 2004 and 2005, WHX contributed $6.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, to the WHX Pension Plan. The estimated minimum funding requirements for the WHX Pension Plan in 2006, 2007, 2008 and through 2011 are $20.6 million, $2.7 million, $0.0 million and $16.7 million (which amounts reflect the recent passage of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 by Congress which had the effect of changing the minimum funding requirements), respectively. Our pension benefit costs are developed from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including discount rates and expected long-term rates of return on plan assets. Material changes in our pension costs may occur in the future due to changes in market conditions not consistent with the assumptions, changes in assumptions, or other changes such as a plan termination, in which case there may be additional claims related to payment for unfunded liabilities. We have applied to the IRS for a funding waiver for the 2005 and 2006 plan years, but the IRS has since limited this request to the 2005 plan year. If granted, this waiver would change our minimum funding requirements to $9.9 million, $10.0 million, $7.9 million and $18.3 million (which amounts reflect the recent passage of the Pension Protection Act of 2006) in 2006, 2007, 2008, and through 2011, respectively. WHX is required to make quarterly funding payments for each plan year. In addition, the remaining minimum required contribution for such earlier year is required to be made by September 15 of the following year. On September 15, 2006, WHX was required to make a minimum contribution for the 2005 plan year in the amount of $15.5 million. However, WHX did not make that contribution due to liquidity issues. If the funding waiver described above is granted, such payment would no longer be due. WHX has made contributions in 2006 in the aggregate amount of $9.9 million (including a payment of $5.0 million on October 30, 2006). The penalties for failure to make timely payment of the 2005 minimum funding requirement could result in penalties of 10% of such deficiency, as well as an additional penalty of 100% of such amount under certain circumstances. In addition, the failure to make timely quarterly funding payments could result in the assessment of interest. The PBGC filed a lien against the assets of H&H to secure, among other things, the funding deficiency, and on October 20, 2006, entered into a Lien Subordination Agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A ("Wachovia"), H&H's principal lending bank. On October 26, 2006, WHX entered into a non-binding letter of intent with the PBGC, which provides, among other things, for the PBGC to recommend to the IRS that it approve the funding waiver application for the WHX Pension Plan for the 2005 plan year, which amount would be amortized over five years, and for the PBGC to receive certain subordinate liens on the assets of H&H and the Company to secure the waiver amount and certain other agreed obligations. WHX and the PBGC are presently working to prepare definitive documentation relating to the letter of intent with the PBGC. If the funding waiver is not granted, or definitive documentation is not 8 finalized and executed, there is no assurance we will be able to obtain the funds required to make the payments. In such event, there is substantial doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. See "Risk Factors - -There is substantial doubt as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern" and Item 7 -"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - H&H Liquidity and Capital Resources - Bankruptcy Filing and Plan of Reorganization of the WPC Group." H&H'S BUSINESSES ARE SUBJECT TO GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS. H&H operates in a wide range of manufacturing businesses that serve the construction, electric, electronic, home appliance OEM, automotive, refrigeration, utility, telecommunications, medical and energy related industries. As a result, H&H's results of operations tend not to be disproportionately affected by any one industry or segment, but tend to be affected by general economic conditions and other factors worldwide, including fluctuations in interest rates, customer demand, labor costs and other factors beyond its control. The demand for H&H's customers' products and, therefore, H&H's products, is directly affected by such fluctuations. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR MAJOR CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT H&H'S REVENUES AND FINANCIAL HEALTH. In 2005, H&H's 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 35% of its consolidated net sales. If H&H were to lose any of its relationships with these customers, its revenues and profitability could fall. OUR STRATEGY INCLUDES SELECTIVE ACQUISITIONS AND ACQUISITIONS ENTAIL NUMEROUS RISKS. Our strategy includes, among other things, strategic and selective acquisitions. This element of our strategy entails several risks, including the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, whether or not we are successful in finding acquisitions, and the potential need to finance such acquisitions with additional debt. In addition, once found, acquisitions entail further risks, including: unanticipated costs, including environmental liabilities that could materially adversely affect our results of operations; difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses; and negative effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. H&H'S COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE COULD BE REDUCED IF ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR RELATED PROPRIETARY MANUFACTURING PROCESSES BECOME KNOWN BY ITS COMPETITORS OR IF TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGES REDUCE H&H'S CUSTOMERS' NEED FOR ITS PRODUCTS. H&H owns a number of trademarks and patents (in the United States and other jurisdictions) on its products and related proprietary manufacturing processes. In addition to trademark and patent protection, H&H relies on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances that it seeks to protect. If H&H's intellectual property is not properly protected by it or is independently discovered by others or otherwise becomes known, its protection against competitive products could be diminished. H&H COULD INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS, INCLUDING REMEDIATION COSTS, AS A RESULT OF COMPLYING WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS. H&H's facilities and operations are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations imposed by federal, state, foreign and local authorities relating to the protection of the environment. It could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines or sanctions, and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws. H&H has incurred, and in the future may continue to incur, liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination detected at sites owned or operated by it (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites, abutters or other persons) and the sites at which H&H disposed of hazardous substances. We have established a reserve totaling $27.5 million with respect to certain presently estimated environmental remediation costs. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had insurance receivables of $2.0 million relating to these environmental remediation costs, which were recovered in 2006. This $27.5 million reserve may not be adequate to cover the ultimate costs of remediation, including discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations which could result in significant additional costs. In addition, H&H expects that future regulations, and changes in the text or interpretation of existing regulations, may subject it to increasingly stringent standards. Compliance with such requirements may make it necessary for H&H to retrofit existing facilities with additional pollution-control equipment, undertake new measures in connection with the storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of by-products and wastes or take other steps, which may be at a substantial cost to H&H. FACTORS AFFECTING THE VALUE OF SECURITIES ISSUED UNDER THE PLAN OF REORGANIZATION THERE IS NO ESTABLISHED MARKET FOR OUR NEW COMMON STOCK. No established market exists for our new common stock. Our new common stock is presently quoted on the pink sheets. Following the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other delinquent periodic reports due under the Securities Exchange Act of 9 1934, as amended, we anticipate that our new common stock will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, and we expect to cooperate with any registered broker-dealer who may seek to initiate price quotations for our new common stock on the OTC Bulletin Board. Again, however, no assurance can be made that such securities will be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or that an active trading market will exist. Moreover, our new common stock was issued pursuant to the Plan to holders of pre-petition Senior Notes and Preferred Stock, and some of these holders may prefer to liquidate their investment rather than to hold it on a long-term basis. Accordingly, it is possible that the market for our new common stock will be volatile, at least for an initial period after the Effective Date of the Plan. In addition, there can be no assurance as to the degree of price volatility in any market for our new common stock that does develop. Transfer restrictions contained in our new charter to help preserve our net operating loss carryovers will generally prevent any person from rapidly acquiring amounts of our new common stock such that such person would hold 5% or more of our new common stock, in each case for up to ten years after July 29, 2005, as specifically provided in our new charter. These transfer restrictions could hinder development of an active market for our new common stock. WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE PAYING DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE WHICH MAY LIMIT INVESTOR DEMAND. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our new common stock in the foreseeable future. Such lack of dividend prospects may have an adverse impact on the market demand for our new common stock as certain institutional investors may invest only in dividend-paying equity securities or may operate under other restrictions that may prohibit or limit their ability to invest in our new common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has an outstanding comment letter from the Securities & Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding its 2003 Report on Form 10-K and its 2004 quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The Company has had certain discussions with the SEC concerning the issues raised in its letter, in particular whether the Company's goodwill impairment test methodology complied with generally accepted accounting principles. The Company responded to the SEC's comments in conjunction with the filing of this Form 10-K and has addressed the issues in its current filing, including a restatement related to the Company's goodwill impairment. As of the filing of this Form 10-K, those comments remain unresolved. 