ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays may impair our operating results The long sales cycle for our products may cause license revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. The sales cycle for our products can be six months or more and varies substantially from customer to customer. Because we sell complex and deeply integrated solutions, it can take many months of customer education to secure sales. While our potential customers are evaluating our products before, if ever, executing definitive agreements, we may incur substantial expenses and spend significant management effort in connection with the potential customer. Our multi-product offering and the increasingly complex needs of our customers contribute to a longer and unpredictable sales cycle. Consequently, we often face difficulty predicting the quarter in which expected sales will actually occur. This contributes to the uncertainty and fluctuations in our future operating results. In particular, the corporate decision-making and approval processes of our customers and potential customers has become more complicated. This has caused our average sales cycle to further increase and, in some cases, has prevented sales from closing that we believed were likely to close. Consequently, we may miss our revenue forecasts and may incur expenses that are not offset by corresponding revenue. Our hybrid revenue model may impact our operating results We have a hybrid delivery model meaning that we offer our solutions on a hosted or license basis to our customers. For license transactions, the license revenue amount is generally recognized in the quarter delivery and acceptance of our software takes place whereas, for hosting transactions, hosting revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the hosting contract, which is typically one to two years. As a result, our total revenue may increase or decrease in future quarters as a result of the timing and mix of license and hosting transactions. If we fail to improve our sales performance and marketing activities, we may be unable to grow our business, negatively impacting our operating results and financial condition Expansion and growth of our business is dependent on the ability of our sales force to become more productive. Moreover, many of our competitors have sizeable sales forces and greater resources to devote to sales and marketing, which results in their enhanced ability to develop and maintain customer relationships. Thus, failure of our sales and marketing investments to translate into increased sales volume and enhanced customer relationships may hamper our efforts to achieve profitability. This may impede our efforts to ameliorate operations in other areas of the company and may result in, further decline of our common stock price. Due to the complexity of our customer interaction hub platform and related products and services, we must utilize highly trained sales personnel to educate prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and services as well as provide effective customer support. Because, in the past, we have experienced turnover in our sales force and have fewer resources than many of our competitors, our sales and marketing organization may not be able to successfully compete with those of our competitors. We must compete successfully in our market segment The market for customer service and contact center software is intensely competitive. Other than product innovation and existing customer relationships, there are no substantial barriers to entry in this market, and established or new entities may enter this market in the near future. While software internally developed by enterprises represents indirect competition, we also compete directly with packaged application software vendors in the customer service arena, including Art Technology Group, Inc., Avaya, Inc., Consona Corporation, Genesys Telecommunications (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alcatel), Kana Software, Inc., Live Person, Inc., RightNow Technologies, Inc., and Talisma Corp. In addition, we face actual or potential competition from larger software companies such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation and SAP Inc. and similar companies that may attempt to sell customer service software to their installed base. 11 Table of Contents We believe competition will continue to be fierce as current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, broader brand recognition, and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources. With more established and better-financed competitors, these companies may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and make more attractive offers to businesses to induce them to use their products or services. Further, any delays in the general market acceptance of our applications would likely harm our competitive position by allowing our competitors additional time to improve their product and service offerings, and also provide time for new competitors to develop applications and solicit prospective customers within our target markets. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, reduced operating margins and loss of market share. We have a history of losses and may not be able to be profitable in the future We incurred a net loss of $4.1 million for the year ended June 30, 2008. As of June 30, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $329.3 million. We do not know if we will be profitable in the foreseeable future. However, we must continue to spend resources on maintaining and strengthening our business, and this may, in the near term, have a continued negative effect on our operating results and our financial condition. If we incur net losses in future periods, we may not be able to retain employees, or fund investments in capital equipment, sales and marketing programs, and research and development to successfully compete against our competitors. We also expect to continue to spend financial and other resources on developing and introducing product and service offerings. Accordingly, if our revenue declines despite such investments, our business and operating results could suffer. This may also, in turn, cause the price of our common stock to demonstrate volatility and/or continue to decline. We may not be able to pay our debt and other obligations If our cash flow is inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on our outstanding debt or restructure such outstanding debt, we would be in default under the terms thereof. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Any restructuring of outstanding debt may be on terms that are more onerous than the existing terms or could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. Our failure to expand strategic and third-party distribution channels would impede our revenue growth To grow our revenue base, we need to increase the number of our distribution partners, including software vendors and resellers. Our existing or future distribution partners may choose to devote greater resources to marketing and supporting the products of our competitors which could harm our financial condition or results of operations. Our failure to expand third-party distribution channels would impede our future revenue growth. In August 2006, we entered into an OEM agreement with Cisco Systems. Under this agreement, we will supply unified communications technology for use in certain Cisco products. This OEM agreement with Cisco includes multiple elements, including significant product customizations that are subject to Cisco’s acceptance. We have and will continue to invest a significant amount of time and resources into this relationship. We have limited control, if any, as to whether Cisco will devote adequate resources to promoting and selling their products that incorporate our technology. For example, to date this OEM agreement has not contributed significantly to our annual revenues. If Cisco changes its strategy, reduces its efforts on our behalf or discontinues or alters its relationship with us, our reputation as a technology partner with them could be damaged and our revenues and operating results could decline. 12 Table of Contents To increase our revenue and implementation capabilities, we must continue to develop and expand relationships with systems integrators. We sometimes rely on systems integrators to recommend our products to their customers and to install and support our products for their customers. We likewise depend on broad market acceptance by these systems integrators of our product and service offerings. Our agreements generally do not prohibit competitive offerings and systems integrators may develop market or recommend software applications that compete with our products. Moreover, if these firms fail to implement our products successfully for their customers, we may not have the resources to implement our products on the schedule required by their customers. To the extent we devote resources to these relationships and the partnerships do not proceed as anticipated or provide revenue or other results as anticipated, our business may be harmed. Once partnerships are forged, there can be no guarantee that such relationships will be renewed in the future or available on acceptable terms. If we lose strategic third party relationships, fail to renew or develop new relationships, or fail to fully exploit revenue opportunities within such relationships, our results of operations and future growth may suffer. Due to our limited operating history and the emerging market for our products and services, revenue and operating expenses are unpredictable and may fluctuate, which may harm our operating results and financial condition Due to the emerging nature of the multichannel contact center market and other similar factors, our revenue and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our revenues in certain past quarters fell and could continue to fall short of expectations if we experience delays or cancellations of even a small number of orders. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below the expectations of financial analysts or investors. In this event, the market price of our common stock is also likely to decline. A number of factors are likely to cause fluctuations in our operating results, including, but not limited to, the following: • demand for our software and budget and spending decisions by information technology departments of our customers; • the mix of hosted and license transactions; • seasonal trends in technology purchases; • our ability to attract and retain customers; and • litigation relating to our intellectual proprietary rights. In addition, we base our expense levels in part on expectations regarding future revenue levels. In the short term, expenses, such as employee compensation and rent, are relatively fixed. If revenue for a particular quarter is below expectations, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. Accordingly, such a revenue shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on expected operating results for that quarter. For this reason, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may also not be a good indication of our future performance. Changes to current accounting policies could have a significant effect on our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business Generally accepted accounting principles and the related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations for some of our significant accounting policies are highly complex and require subjective judgments and assumptions. Some of our more significant accounting policies that could be affected by changes in the accounting rules and the related implementation guidelines and interpretations include: • recognition of revenues; • contingencies and litigation; 13 Table of Contents • accounting for income taxes; and • stock-based compensation. Changes in these or other rules, or scrutiny of our current accounting practices, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported operating results or the way in which we conduct our business. We may need additional capital, and raising such additional capital may be difficult or impossible and will likely significantly dilute existing stockholders We believe that existing capital resources will enable us to maintain current and planned operations for the next 12 months. However, our working capital requirements in the foreseeable future are subject to numerous risks and will depend on a variety of factors, in particular, that revenues maintain at the levels achieved in fiscal year 2008 and that customers continue to pay on a timely basis. We may need to secure additional financing due to unforeseen or unanticipated market conditions. Such financing may be difficult to obtain on terms acceptable to us and will almost certainly dilute existing stockholder value. We depend on broad market acceptance of our applications and of our business model We depend on the widespread acceptance and use of our applications as an effective solution for businesses seeking to manage high volumes of customer interactions across multiple channels, including web, phone, email, print and in-person. While we believe the potential to be very large, we cannot accurately estimate the size or growth rate of the potential market for such product and service offerings generally, and we do not know whether our products and services in particular will achieve broad market acceptance. The market for customer interaction software is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and concerns over the security and reliability of online transactions, the privacy of users and quality of service or other issues may inhibit the growth of the Internet and commercial online services. If the market for our applications fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our business will be seriously harmed. Furthermore, our business model is premised on business assumptions that are still evolving. Historically, customer service has been conducted primarily in person or over the telephone. Our business model assumes that both customers and companies will increasingly elect to communicate via multiple channels, as well as demand integration of the online channels into the traditional telephone-based call center. Our business model also assumes that many companies recognize the benefits of a hosted delivery model and will seek to have their customer interaction software applications hosted by us. If any of these assumptions is incorrect, our business will be seriously harmed and our stock price will decline. Difficulties in implementing our products could harm our revenues and margins We generally recognize license revenue from a customer sale when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the product has been delivered, the arrangement does not involve significant customization of the software, the license fee is fixed or determinable and collection of the fee is probable. If an arrangement requires significant customization or implementation services from us, recognition of the associated license and service revenue could be delayed. The timing of the commencement and completion of these services is subject to factors that may be beyond our control, as this process requires access to the customer’s facilities and coordination with the customer’s personnel after delivery of the software. In addition, customers could delay product implementations. Implementation typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. If we experience difficulties with implementation or do not meet project milestones in a timely manner, we could be obligated to devote more customer support, engineering and other resources to a particular project. Some customers may also require us to develop customized features or capabilities. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our professional services, support, or customized features, revenue recognition could be further delayed or canceled and our costs could increase, causing increased variability in our operating results. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond to the rapid technological change of the customer service and contact center industry The customer service and contact center industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements and preferences, and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing services, proprietary technology and systems obsolete. We must continually develop or introduce and improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to enhance our existing services and to develop new services, functionality and technology that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of prospective customers. If we do not properly identify the feature preferences of prospective customers, or if we fail to deliver product features that meet the standards of these customers, our ability to market our service and compete successfully and to increase revenues could be impaired. The development of proprietary technology and necessary service enhancements entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. We may not be able to keep pace with the latest technological developments. We may also be unable to use new technologies effectively or adapt services to customer requirements or emerging industry standards or regulatory or legal requirements. More generally, if we cannot adapt or respond in a cost-effective and timely manner to changing industry standards, market conditions or customer requirements, our business and operating results will suffer. Our international operations involve various risks We derived 48% of our revenues from international sales for the fiscal year 2008 compared to 45% for the fiscal year 2007, and 51% for fiscal year 2006. Including those discussed above, our international sales operations are subject to a number of specific risks, such as: • foreign currency fluctuations and imposition of exchange controls; • expenses associated with complying with differing technology standards and language translation issues; • difficulty and costs in staffing and managing our international operations; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; • various trade restrictions and tax consequences; and • reduced intellectual property protections in some countries. More than 50% of our workforce is employed in India. Of these employees more than 42% are allocated to research and development. Although the movement of certain operations internationally was principally motivated by cost cutting, the continued management of these remote operations requires significant management attention and financial resources that could adversely affect our operating performance. In addition, with the significant increase in the numbers of foreign businesses that have established operations in India, the competition to attract and retain employees there has increased significantly. As a result of the increased competition for skilled workers, we experienced increased compensation costs and expect these costs to increase in the future. Our reliance on our workforce in India makes us particularly susceptible to disruptions in the business environment in that region. In particular, sophisticated telecommunications links, high speed data communications with other eGain offices and customers, and overall consistency and stability of our business infrastructure are vital to our day to day operations, and any impairment of such infrastructure will cause our financial condition and results to suffer. The maintenance of stable political relations between the United States, European Union and India are also of great importance to our operations. Any of these risks could have a significant impact on our product development, customer support or professional services. To the extent the benefit of maintaining these operations abroad does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining such activities, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in exchange rates between the Euro, the British pound, the Rupee and the U.S. dollar in which we do business, may adversely affect our operating results. We transact business in an international environment. As we report our results in U.S. dollars, the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another directly impacts period to period comparisons of our operating results. We generate a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro and the British pound and we incur Indian rupee expenses. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict or provide guidance on our results. Our international revenues and expenses are denominated in local currency. Therefore, a weakening of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar could make our products less competitive in foreign markets and could negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. We have not yet experienced, but may in the future experience, significant foreign currency transaction losses, especially because we generally do not engage in currency hedging. To the extent the international component of our revenue grows, our results of operations will become more sensitive to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Our reserves may be insufficient to cover receivables we are unable to collect We assume a certain level of credit risk with our customers in order to do business. Conditions affecting any of our customers could cause them to become unable or unwilling to pay us in a timely manner, or at all, for products or services we have already provided them. In the past, we have experienced collection delays from certain customers, and we cannot predict whether we will continue to experience similar or more severe delays in the future. Although we have established reserves to cover losses due to delays or inability to pay, there can be no assurance that such reserves will be sufficient to cover our losses. If losses due to delays or inability to pay are greater than our reserves, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Litigation and infringement claims could be costly to defend and distract our management team We may be involved in legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of the intellectual property or proprietary rights of third parties, employment claims and other commercial contract disputes. Third parties may also infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and other proprietary rights for which we may be required to file suit to protect or mediate our rights. In the past we have had lawsuits brought or threatened against us in a variety of contexts including but not limited to claims related to issues associated with our initial public offering of common stock, breach of contract and litigation associated with the termination of employees. From time to time, parties have also asserted or threatened infringement claims, and may continue to do so. Because the contents of patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our software products. In particular, intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could also require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or license agreements. These royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a successful claim of infringement. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Where appropriate, we intend to vigorously defend all claims. However, any actual or threatened claims, even if not meritorious or material, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. The continued defense of these claims and other types of lawsuits could divert management’s attention away from running our business. Negative developments in lawsuits could cause our stock price to decline as well. In addition, required amounts to be paid in settlement of any claims, and the legal fees and other costs associated with such settlement cannot be estimated and could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We rely on trademark, copyright, trade secret laws, contractual restrictions and patent rights to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights and if these rights are impaired our ability to generate revenue will be harmed We regard our patents, copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success, and rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers and partners to protect our proprietary rights. We have numerous registered trademarks as well as common law trademark rights in the United States and internationally. In addition, we own several patents in the area of case-based reasoning. We plan to seek additional trademark and patent protection in the future. We do not know if our trademark and patent applications will be granted, or whether they will provide the protection we desire, or whether they will subsequently be challenged or invalidated. It is difficult to monitor unauthorized use of technology, particularly in foreign countries, where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop technology similar to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights through confidentiality and license agreements, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. These precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property. In addition, we routinely require employees, customers, and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements before we will disclose any sensitive aspects of our products, technology, or business plans. In addition, we require employees to agree to surrender any proprietary information, inventions or other intellectual property they generate or come to possess while employed by us. In addition, some of our license agreements with certain customers and partners require us to place the source code for our products into escrow. These agreements typically provide that some party will have a limited, non-exclusive right to access and use this code as authorized by the license agreement if there is a bankruptcy proceeding instituted by or against us, or if we materially breach a contractual commitment to provide support and maintenance to the party. Unknown software defects could disrupt our products and services and problems arising from our vendors’ products or services could disrupt operations, which could harm our business and reputation Our product and service offerings depend on complex software, both internally developed and licensed from third parties. Complex software often contains defects or errors in translation or integration, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released or localized for international markets. We may not discover software defects that affect our new or current services or enhancements until after they are deployed. It is possible that, despite testing by us, defects may occur in the software and we can give no assurance that our products and services will not experience such defects in the future. Furthermore, our customers generally use our products together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur in the integration or network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our products do not cause these problems, these problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. These defects or problems could result in damage to our reputation, lost sales, product liability claims, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, product returns and unexpected expenses, and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Our common stock has been delisted and thus the price and liquidity of our common stock has been affected and our ability to obtain future equity financing may be further impaired In February 2004, we were delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market due to noncompliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(B), which requires companies listed to have a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders’ equity or $35,000,000 market value of listed securities or $500,000 of net income from continuing operations for the most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. Our common stock now trades on the OTC Bulletin Board owned by the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., which was established for securities that do not meet the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Market. The OTC 17 Table of Contents Bulletin Board is generally considered less efficient than the Nasdaq Global Market. Consequently, selling our common stock is likely more difficult because of diminished liquidity in smaller quantities of shares likely being bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and securities analysts’ and news media coverage of us may be further reduced. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for shares of common stock. Our listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, or further declines in our stock price, may greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and significantly increase the dilution to our current stockholders caused by any issuance of equity in financing or other transactions. The price at which we would issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock and a decline in the stock price could result in our need to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funding. In addition, as our common stock is not listed on a principal national exchange, we are subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. That rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. For transactions covered by this rule, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. Consequently, the rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and affect the ability of holders to sell their shares of our common stock in the secondary market. Moreover, investors may be less interested in purchasing low-priced securities because the brokerage commissions, as a percentage of the total transaction value, tend to be higher for such securities, and some investment funds will not invest in low-priced securities (other than those which focus on small-capitalization companies or low-priced securities). Our stock price has demonstrated volatility and overall declines since being listed on the public market and continued market conditions may cause further declines or fluctuations The price at which our common stock trades has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile and show wide fluctuations and substantial declines due to factors such as the following: • the thinly traded nature of our stock on the OTC Bulletin Board; • concerns related to liquidity of our stock, financial condition or cash balances; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to meet announced or anticipated profitability goals and changes in or failure to meet securities analysts’ expectations; • announcements of technological innovations and/or the introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights and litigation, regulatory scrutiny and new legislation; • conditions and trends in the Internet and other technology industries; and • general market and economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market has recently and in the past experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stock of technology companies, regardless of the specific operating performance of the affected company. These broad market fluctuations may cause the market price of our common stock to increase and decline. In addition, in past periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has been brought against that company following such declines. To the extent our stock price precipitously drops in the future, we may become involved in this type of litigation. Litigation of this kind, or involving intellectual property rights, is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could continue to harm our business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Ability to hire and retain key personnel Our success will also depend in large part on the skills, experience and performance of our senior management, engineering, sales, marketing and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, Ashutosh Roy, could harm our business. Increased levels of attrition in the Indian workforce on which we deeply rely for research and development and where we have moved significant resources in recent years would have significant effects on the company and its results of operations. Unplanned system interruptions and capacity constraints and failure to effect efficient transmission of customer communications and data over the Internet could harm our business and reputation Our customers have in the past experienced some interruptions with the eGain-hosted operations. We believe that these interruptions will continue to occur from time to time. These interruptions could be due to hardware and operating system failures. As a result, our business will suffer if we experience frequent or long system interruptions that result in the unavailability or reduced performance of our hosted operations or reduce our ability to provide remote management services. We expect to experience occasional temporary capacity constraints due to sharply increased traffic or other Internet wide disruptions, which may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, impaired quality, and degradation in levels of customer service. If this were to continue to happen, our business and reputation could be seriously harmed. The growth in the use of the Internet has caused interruptions and delays in accessing the Internet and transmitting data over the Internet. Interruptions also occur due to systems burdens brought on by unsolicited bulk email or “Spam,” malicious service attacks and hacking into operating systems, viruses, worms and “Trojan” horses, the proliferation of which is beyond our control and may seriously impact our and our customers’ businesses. Because we provide Internet-based eService software, interruptions or delays in Internet transmissions will harm our customers’ ability to receive and respond to online interactions. Therefore, our market depends on ongoing improvements being made to the entire Internet infrastructure to alleviate overloading and congestion. Our success largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and network systems. Most of our computer and communications systems are located in Mountain View, California. Due to our locations, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. We have entered into service agreements with some of our customers that require minimum performance standards, including standards regarding the availability and response time of our remote management services. If we fail to meet these standards, our customers could terminate their relationships with us, and we could be subject to contractual refunds and service credits to customers. Any unplanned interruption of services may harm our ability to attract and retain customers. We may be liable for activities of customers or others using our hosted operations As a provider of customer service and contact center software for the Internet, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the actions of our customers, and their customers, or others using our solutions or communicating through our networks. This liability could result from the nature and content of the communications transmitted by customers through the hosted operations. We do not and cannot screen all of the communications generated by our customers, and we could be exposed to liability with respect to this content. Furthermore, some foreign governments, including 19 Table of Contents Germany and China, have enforced laws and regulations related to content distributed over the Internet that are more strict than those currently in place in the United States. In some instances criminal liability may arise in connection with the content of Internet transmissions. Although we carry general liability and umbrella liability insurance, our insurance may not cover claims of these types or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. There is a risk that a single claim or multiple claims, if successfully asserted against us, could exceed the total of our coverage limits. There also is a risk that a single claim or multiple claims asserted against us may not qualify for coverage under our insurance policies as a result of coverage exclusions that are contained within these policies. Should either of these risks occur, capital contributed by our stockholders might need to be used to settle claims. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could harm our reputation and business and operating results, or could result in the imposition of criminal penalties. If our system security is breached, our business and reputation could suffer and we may face liability associated with disclosure of sensitive customer information A fundamental requirement for online communications and transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers. We may be liable to our customers for any breach in our security and any breach could harm our business and reputation. Although we have implemented network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, or loss of data. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to license encryption technology and additional technologies to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach since our applications frequently manage sensitive and personally identifiable customer information. We may also be subject to claims associated with invasion of privacy or inappropriate disclosure, use or loss of this information and fraud and identity theft crimes associated with such use or loss. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage, could harm our reputation and our business and operating results. The regulatory environment for and certain legal uncertainties in the operation of our business and our customer’s business could impair our growth or decrease demand for our services or increase our cost of doing business Few laws currently apply directly to activity on the Internet and related services for businesses operating commercial online service. However, new laws are frequently proposed and other laws made applicable to Internet communications every year both in the U.S. and internationally. In particular, in the operation of our business we face risks associated with privacy, confidentiality of user data and communications, consumer protection and pricing, taxation, content, copyright, trade secrets, trademarks, antitrust, defamation and other legal issues. In particular, legal concerns with respect to communication of confidential data have affected our financial services and health care customers due to newly enacted federal legislation. The growth of the industry and the proliferation of ecommerce services may prompt further legislative attention to our industry and thus invite more regulatory control of our business. Further, the growth and development of the market for commercial online transactions may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on those companies engaged in ecommerce. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws in various jurisdictions governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy is uncertain and may take years to resolve. In addition, the applicability of laws and regulations directly applicable to the businesses of our customers, particularly customers in the fields of financial services, will continue to affect us. The security of information about our customers’ end-users continues to be an area where a variety of laws and regulations with respect to privacy and confidentiality are enacted. As our customers implement the protections and prohibitions with respect to the transmission of end-user data, our customers will look to us to assist them in remaining in 20 Table of Contents compliance with this evolving area of regulation. In particular the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act contains restrictions with respect to the use and protection of financial services records for end-users whose information may pass through our system. The imposition of more stringent protections and/or new regulations and the application of existing laws to our business could burden our company and those with which we do business. Further, the adoption of additional laws and regulations could limit the growth of our business and that of our business partners and customers. Any decreased generalized demand for our services, or the loss/decrease in business by a key partner or customer due to regulation or the expense of compliance with any regulation, could either increase the costs associated with our business or affect revenue, either of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. Finally, we face increased regulatory scrutiny and potential criminal liability for our executives associated with various accounting and corporate governance rules promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have reviewed and will continue to monitor all of our accounting policies and practices, legal disclosure and corporate governance policies under the new legislation, including those related to relationships with our independent accountants, enhanced financial disclosures, internal controls, board and board committee practices, corporate responsibility and loan practices, and intend to fully comply with such laws. Nevertheless, such increased scrutiny and penalties involve risks to both eGain and our executive officers and directors in monitoring and insuring compliance. A failure to properly navigate the legal disclosure environment and implement and enforce appropriate policies and procedures, if needed, could harm our business and prospects. We may need to license third-party technologies and may be unable to do so To the extent we need to license third-party technologies, we may be unable to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may fail to successfully integrate any licensed technology into our products or services. Third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenue from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. Our inability to obtain and successfully integrate any of these licenses could delay product and service development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated. This in turn would harm our business and operating results. We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders, cause us to incur significant expenses or harm our business. We may review acquisition or investment prospects that might complement our current business or enhance our technological capabilities. Integrating any newly acquired businesses or their technologies or products may be expensive and time-consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all, and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our existing stockholders. We may not be able to operate acquired businesses profitably. If we are unable to integrate newly acquired entities or technologies effectively, our operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs, incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization of expenses related to goodwill and other intangibles, any of which could harm our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 