ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions or beliefs that we believe to be reasonable; however assumed facts almost always vary from the actual results, and differences between assumed facts and actual results can be material, depending upon the circumstances. Where, based on assumptions, we or our management express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the stated expectation or belief will occur, be achieved or accomplished. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements and any other cautionary statements that may accompany such forward-looking statements. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Risks Related to Our Business Our operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks. Our operations are subject to the inherent risks normally associated with those operations, including pipeline ruptures, explosions, pollution, release of toxic substances, fires, adverse weather conditions (such as hurricanes and flooding), terrorist activity or acts of aggression, and other hazards. Each of these risks could result in damage to or destruction of our facilities or damages or injuries to persons and property causing us to suffer substantial losses. While we maintain insurance against many of these risks to the extent and in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles and self-insurance levels, as well as limits on our maximum recovery, and do not cover all risks. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. The success of our pipeline business depends, in part, on factors beyond our control. Most of the natural gas we transport and store is owned by third parties. The results of our transportation and storage operations are impacted by the volumes of natural gas we transport or store and the prices we are able to charge for doing so. The volume of natural gas we are able to transport and store depends on the actions of those third parties and is beyond our control. Further, the following factors, most of which are beyond our control, may unfavorably impact our ability to maintain or increase current throughput, or to remarket unsubscribed capacity on our pipeline systems: • service area competition; • expiration or turn back of significant contracts; • changes in regulation and action of regulatory bodies; • weather conditions that impact throughput and storage levels; • price competition; • drilling activity and decreased availability of conventional gas supply sources and the availability and timing of other natural gas supply sources, such as LNG; 27 Table of Contents • continued development of additional sources of gas supply that can be accessed; • decreased natural gas demand due to various factors, including increases in prices and the availability or increased demand of alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, nuclear energy, wind, solar, coal and fuel oil; • availability and cost of capital to fund ongoing maintenance and growth projects; • opposition to energy infrastructure development, especially in environmentally sensitive areas; • adverse general economic conditions including prolonged recessionary periods that might negatively impact natural gas demand and the capital markets; • expiration and/or renewal of existing interests in real property, including real property on Native American lands; and • unfavorable movements in natural gas prices in certain supply and demand areas. Certain of our systems’ transportation services are subject to long-term, fixed-price “negotiated rate” contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts, and, as a result, our costs could exceed our revenues received under such contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under “negotiated rate” contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. Under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” which may be above or below the FERC regulated “recourse rate” for that service, and that contract must be filed and accepted by FERC. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs which could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between “recourse rates” (if higher) and negotiated rates, under current FERC policy is generally not recoverable from other shippers. The revenues of our pipeline businesses are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. Substantially all of our pipeline subsidiaries’ revenues are generated under contracts which expire periodically and must be renegotiated, extended or replaced. If we are unable to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or renegotiate contract terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. In particular, our ability to extend and replace contracts could be adversely affected by factors we cannot control, including: • competition by other pipelines, including the change in rates or upstream supply of existing pipeline competitors, as well as the proposed construction by other companies of additional pipeline capacity or LNG terminals in markets served by our interstate pipelines; • changes in state regulation of local distribution companies, which may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire; • reduced demand and market conditions in the areas we serve; • the availability of alternative energy sources or natural gas supply points; and • regulatory actions. Fluctuations in energy commodity prices could adversely affect our pipeline businesses. Revenues generated by our transportation, storage and LNG contracts depend on volumes and rates, both of which can be affected by the prices of natural gas and LNG. Increased prices could result in a reduction of the volumes transported by our customers, including power companies that may not dispatch natural gas-fired power plants if natural gas prices increase. Increased prices could also result in industrial plant shutdowns or load losses to competitive fuels as well as local distribution companies’ loss of customer base. The success of our transmission, storage and LNG operations is subject to continued development of additional gas supplies to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to our systems, which requires the development of additional oil and natural gas reserves, obtaining additional supplies from interconnecting pipelines, and the development of LNG facilities on or near our systems. A decline in energy prices could cause a decrease in these development activities and could cause a decrease in the volume of 28 Table of Contents reserves available for transmission, storage and processing through our systems. Pricing volatility may impact the value of under or over recoveries of retained natural gas, imbalances and system encroachments. If natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to our pipeline systems are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions, our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our long-term recontracting activities. Furthermore, fluctuations in pricing between supply sources and market areas could negatively impact our transportation revenues. Fluctuations in energy prices are caused by a number of factors, including: • regional, domestic and international supply and demand; • availability and adequacy of transportation facilities; • energy legislation; • federal and state taxes, if any, on the sale or transportation of natural gas; • abundance of supplies of alternative energy sources; and • political unrest among countries producing oil and LNG. The expansion of our pipeline systems by constructing new facilities subjects us to construction and other risks that may adversely affect the financial results of our pipeline businesses. We may expand the capacity of our existing pipeline, storage or LNG facilities by constructing additional facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by the FERC and other regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on terms that are acceptable to us; • the ability to obtain continued access to sufficient capital to fund expansion projects; • the availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • potential changes in federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and orders, including environmental requirements that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; • impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on a timely basis or on terms that are acceptable to us; • our ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that we may incur cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, contractor productivity or other factors beyond our control, that we may not be able to recover from our customers which may be material; • the lack of future growth in natural gas supply; and • the lack of transportation, storage or throughput commitments. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a result, new facilities may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 29 Table of Contents Natural gas and oil prices are volatile. A substantial decrease in natural gas and oil prices could adversely affect the financial results of our exploration and production business. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, cash flows and future rate of growth depend primarily upon the prices we receive for our natural gas and oil production. Natural gas and oil prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current world geopolitical conditions. The prices for natural gas and oil are subject to a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of consumer demand for, and the supply of, natural gas and oil; • the availability and reliability of commodity processing, gathering and pipeline capacity; • the level of imports of, and the price of, foreign natural gas and oil; • the ability of the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; • domestic governmental regulations and taxes; • the price and availability of alternative fuel sources; • weather conditions, such as unusually warm or cold weather, and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico; • market uncertainty; • political conditions or hostilities in natural gas and oil producing regions; • worldwide economic conditions; and • changes in demand for the use of natural gas and oil because of market concerns about global warming or changes in governmental policies and regulations due to climate change initiatives. Further, because the majority of our proved reserves at December 31, 2007 were natural gas reserves, we are substantially more sensitive to changes in natural gas prices than we are to changes in oil prices. Declines in natural gas and oil prices would not only reduce revenue, but could reduce the amount of natural gas and oil that we can produce economically and, as a result, could adversely affect the financial results of our exploration and production business. A decline in natural gas and oil prices could result in a downward revision of our reserves and a full cost ceiling test write-down of the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, which could be substantial, and would negatively impact our net income and stockholders’ equity. The success of our exploration and production business is dependent, in part, on the following factors. The performance of our exploration and production business is dependent upon a number of factors that we cannot control, including: • the results of future drilling activity; • the availability and increases in future costs of rigs, equipment and labor to support drilling activity and production operations; • our ability to identify and precisely locate prospective geologic structures and to drill and successfully complete wells in those structures in a timely manner; • our ability to expand our leased land positions in desirable areas, which often are subject to intensely competitive conditions from other companies; • our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; • adverse changes in future tax policies, rates, and drilling or production incentives by state, federal, or foreign governments; 30 Table of Contents • increased federal or state regulations, including environmental regulations, that limit or restrict the ability to drill natural gas or oil wells, reduce operational flexibility, or increase capital and operating costs; • governmental action affecting the profitability of our exploration and production activities, such as increased royalty rates payable on oil and gas leases, the imposition of additional taxes on such activities or the modification or withdrawal of tax incentives in favor of exploration and development activity; • our lack of control over jointly owned properties and properties operated by others; • declines in production volumes, including those from the Gulf of Mexico; and • continued access to sufficient capital to fund drilling programs to develop and replace a reserve base with rapid depletion characteristics. Our natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve many risks and may not be profitable. Our operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the operation and development of natural gas and oil properties and the drilling of natural gas and oil wells, including well blowouts, cratering and explosions, pipe failure, fires, formations with abnormal pressures, uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine or well fluids, release of contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards and risks. Additionally, our offshore operations may encounter usual marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions, damage from collisions with vessels, governmental regulations and interruption or termination of drilling rights by governmental authorities based on environmental and other considerations. Each of these risks could result in damage to property, injuries to people or the shut in of existing production as damaged energy infrastructure is repaired or replaced. We maintain insurance coverage to reduce exposure to potential losses resulting from these operating hazards. The nature of the risks is such that some liabilities could exceed our insurance policy limits, or, as in the case of environmental fines and penalties, cannot be insured which could adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Our drilling operations are also subject to the risk that we will not encounter commercially productive reservoirs. New wells drilled by us may not be productive, or we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in those wells. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only because of dry holes but wells that are productive may not produce sufficient net reserves to return a profit at then realized prices after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. Estimating our reserves, production and future net cash flow is inherently imprecise. Estimating quantities of proved natural gas and oil reserves is a complex process that involves significant interpretations and assumptions. It requires interpretations and judgment of available technical data, including the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, and engineering data. It also requires making estimates based upon economic factors, such as natural gas and oil prices, production costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures, workover and remedial costs, and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. Due to a lack of substantial, if any, production data, there are greater uncertainties in estimating proved undeveloped reserves, proved developed non-producing reserves and proved developed reserves that are early in their production life. As a result, our reserve estimates are inherently imprecise. We also use a ten percent discount factor for estimating the value of our future net cash flows from reserves and a one-day spot price (typically the last day of the year), each as prescribed by the SEC. This discount factor may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given actual interest rates and risks to which our exploration and production business or the natural gas and oil industry, in general, are subject. Additionally, this one day spot price will not generally represent the market prices for natural gas and oil over time. Any significant variations from the interpretations or assumptions used in our estimates or changes of conditions could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of our reserves to differ materially. Our reserve data represents an estimate. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this report represent the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. The timing of the production and the expenses related to the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. Changes in the present value of these reserves could cause a write-down in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, which could be substantial, and would negatively affect our net income and stockholders’ equity. 31 Table of Contents A portion of our estimated proved reserves are undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully, but future events, including commodity price changes, may cause these assumptions to change. The success of our exploration and production business depends upon our ability to replace reserves that we produce. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline which will eventually result in a decrease in natural gas and oil production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We historically have replaced reserves through both drilling and acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves requires substantial capital expenditures. Our operations require continued access to sufficient capital to fund drilling programs to develop and replace a reserve base with rapid depletion characteristics. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures, if our capital resources become limited, or if our exploration, development and acquisition activities are unsuccessful, we may not be able to replace the reserves that we produce, which would negatively affect our future revenues, cash flows and results of operations. We face competition from third parties to acquire and develop natural gas and oil reserves. The natural gas and oil business is highly competitive in the search for and acquisition of reserves. Our competitors include the major and independent natural gas and oil companies, individual producers, gas marketers and major pipeline companies some of which have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us, as well as participants in other industries supplying energy and fuel to industrial, commercial and individual consumers. In order to expand our leased land positions in intensively competitive and desirable areas, we must identify and precisely locate prospective geologic structures, identify and review any potential risks and uncertainties in these areas, and drill and successfully complete wells in a timely manner. Our future success and profitability in the production business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to identify these risks or uncertainties and find or acquire additional reserves at costs that allow us to remain competitive. Our use of derivative financial instruments could result in financial losses. Some of our subsidiaries use futures, over-the-counter options and price and basis swaps with other natural gas merchants and financial institutions. To the extent we have positions that are not designated as hedges or do not qualify as hedges, changes in commodity prices, interest rates, volatility, correlation factors and the liquidity of the market could cause our revenues and net income to be volatile. We could incur financial losses in the future as a result of volatility in the market values of the energy commodities we trade, or if one of our counterparties fails to perform under a contract. The valuation of these financial instruments involves estimates. Changes in the assumptions underlying these estimates can occur, changing our valuation of these instruments and potentially resulting in financial losses. To the extent we hedge our commodity price exposure and interest rate exposure, we forego the benefits we could otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change favorably. The use of derivatives, to the extent they require collateral posting with our counterparties, could impact our working capital (current assets less current liabilities) and liquidity when commodity prices or interest rates change. For additional information concerning our derivative financial instruments, see Part II, Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 7. 32 Table of Contents Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks. Our activities in areas outside the United States, including power, pipeline and exploration and production projects in Brazil, exploration and production projects in Egypt and pipeline projects in Mexico, are subject to the risks inherent in foreign operations. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these sorts of risks including: • loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars or insurrection; • the effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies and other economic problems; • changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including those associated with changes in the governing parties, nationalization, and expropriation; and • protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, customer authorizations or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations. Retained liabilities associated with businesses that we have sold could exceed our estimates and we could experience difficulties in managing these liabilities. We have sold a significant number of assets and either retained certain liabilities or indemnified certain purchasers against future liabilities relating to businesses and assets sold, including breaches of warranties, environmental expenditures, asset maintenance, tax, litigation, personal injury claims and other representations that we have provided. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for these liabilities, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. We have experienced substantial reductions and turnover in the workforce that previously supported the ownership and operation of such assets which could result in difficulties in managing these businesses, including a reduction in historical knowledge of the assets and businesses and in managing the liabilities retained after closing or defending any associated litigation. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans. Our pipeline and exploration and production businesses require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce. If we are unable to retain and recruit employees such as engineers and other technical personnel, our business could be negatively impacted. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters The outcome of pending governmental investigations could be materially adverse to us. We are subject to various governmental investigations by one or more of the following governmental agencies: the SEC, FERC and the U.S. Department of Transportation Office of Pipeline Safety. Although we are cooperating with the governmental agency or agencies in these investigations, the outcome of each of these investigations and the costs to the Company of responding and participating in these investigations is uncertain. The ultimate costs and sanctions, if any, that may be imposed upon us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. The agencies that regulate our pipeline businesses and their customers could affect our profitability. Our pipeline businesses are regulated by the FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Interior, and various state and local regulatory agencies whose actions have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. In particular, the FERC regulates the rates our pipelines are permitted to charge their customers for their services and sets authorized rates of return. The FERC uses a discounted cash flow model that incorporates the use of proxy groups to develop a range of reasonable returns earned on equity interests in companies with corresponding risks. The FERC then assigns a rate of return on equity within that range to reflect specific risks of that pipeline when compared to the proxy group companies. The FERC had been using a proxy group of companies that included local distribution companies that are not faced with as much competition or risk as interstate pipelines. The inclusion of these lower risk companies could have created downward pressure on tariff rates when subjected to review by the FERC in future rate proceedings. Recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the DC Circuit issued a decision that would require the FERC, if it utilizes lower risk companies in the proxy group, to make upward adjustments to the return on equity to compensate for their lower level of risk. Pursuant to the FERC’s jurisdiction over rates, existing rates may be challenged by complaint and proposed 33 Table of Contents rate increases may be challenged by protest. A successful complaint or protest against our pipelines rates could have an adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, in July 2007, the FERC issued a proposed policy statement addressing the issue of the proxy groups it will use to decide the return on equity of natural gas pipelines. The proposed policy statement describes the FERC’s intention to allow the use of master limited partnerships in proxy groups, which we and other pipelines have advocated. However, the FERC also proposed certain restrictions that would reduce the overall benefit that pipelines would receive by use of master limited partnerships in the proxy group. Through our trade association, we have filed comments on the policy and participated in a public conference on this subject. Additionally, we formed El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P., a master limited partnership, in 2007. The FERC currently allows publicly traded partnerships to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance. Any changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service and to potential adjustment in a future rate case of our pipelines’ respective equity rates of return that underlie their recourse rates may cause their recourse rates to be set at a level that is different, and in some instances lower than the level otherwise in effect, could negatively impact our investment in El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. Also, increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines requires additional spending in order to maintain compliance with these requirements. Any additional requirements that are enacted could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures. Further, state agencies that regulate our pipelines’ local distribution company customers could impose requirements that could impact demand for our pipelines’ services. Environmental compliance and remediation costs and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations regarding compliance and remediation obligations. Compliance obligations can result in significant costs to install and maintain pollution controls, fines and penalties resulting from any failure to comply and potential limitations on our operations. Remediation obligations can result in significant costs associated with the investigation or clean up of contaminated properties (some of which have been designated as Superfund sites by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)), as well as damage claims arising out of the contamination of properties or impact on natural resources. Although we believe we have established appropriate reserves for our environmental liabilities, it is not possible for us to estimate the exact amount and timing of all future expenditures related to environmental matters and we could be required to set aside additional amounts which could significantly impact our future consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12. In estimating our environmental liabilities, we face uncertainties that include: • estimating pollution control and clean up costs, including sites where preliminary site investigation or assessments have been completed; • discovering new sites or additional information at existing sites; • quantifying liability under environmental laws that impose joint and several liability on all potentially responsible parties; • evaluating and understanding environmental laws and regulations, including their interpretation and enforcement; and • changing environmental laws and regulations that may increase our costs. Currently, various legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including carbon dioxide and methane, are in various phases of discussion or implementation. These include the Kyoto Protocol which has been ratified by some of the international countries in which we have operations such as Mexico, Brazil, and Egypt. In the United States, various federal legislative proposals have been made over the last several years. It is difficult to predict the timing of enactment of any federal legislation, as well as the ultimate legislation that will be enacted. However, components of the legislation that have been proposed in the past could negatively impact our operations and financial results, including whether any of our facilities are designated as the point of regulation for GHG emissions, whether the federal legislation will expressly preempt the potentially conflicting state GHG legislation and how inter-fuel issues will be handled, including how allowances are granted and whether caps will be imposed on GHG charges. 34 Table of Contents Legislation and regulation are also in various stages of proposal, enactment, and implementation in many of the states in which we operate. This includes various initiatives of individual states and coalition of states in the northeastern portion of the United States that are members of the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative and seven western states that are members of the Western Climate Initiative. Additionally, various governmental entities and environmental groups have filed lawsuits seeking to force the federal government to regulate GHG emissions and individual companies to reduce the GHG emissions from their operations. These and other suits may also result in decisions by federal agencies and state courts and other agencies that impact our operations and ability to obtain certifications and permits to construct future projects. These legislative, regulatory, and judicial actions could result in changes to our operations and to the consumption and demand for natural gas and oil. Changes to our operations could include increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities, (iii) construct new facilities, (iv) acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, (v) pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and (vi) administer and manage a GHG emissions program. While we may be able to include some or all of any costs in our rates charged by our pipelines and in the prices at which we sell natural gas and oil, such recovery of costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final legislation. Costs of litigation matters and other contingencies could exceed our estimates. We are involved in various lawsuits in which we or our subsidiaries have been sued (see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12). We also have other contingent liabilities and exposures. Although we believe we have established appropriate reserves for these liabilities, we could be required to set aside additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. Risks Related to Our Liquidity We have significant debt and below investment grade credit ratings, which have impacted and will continue to impact our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have significant debt, debt service and debt maturity obligations. The ratings assigned to El Paso’s senior unsecured indebtedness are below investment grade, currently rated Ba3 with a positive outlook by Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) and BB- with a positive outlook by Standard & Poor’s. These ratings have increased our cost of capital and our operating costs, particularly in our marketing operations, and could impede our access to capital markets. Although we must retain greater liquidity levels to operate our business than if we had investment grade credit ratings, the simplification of our capital structure and business has reduced the amount of liquidity we maintain in the ordinary course of business. If there is significant volatility in energy commodity prices or interest rates, then these lower liquidity levels might not be adequate. In such an event, if our ability to generate or access capital becomes significantly restrained, then our financial condition and future results of operations could be significantly adversely affected. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, for a further discussion of our debt. A breach of the covenants applicable to our debt and other financing obligations could affect our ability to borrow funds and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. Our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants, which become more restrictive over time, and contain cross default provisions. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Additionally, some of our credit agreements are collateralized by our equity interests in EPNG and TGP as well as certain natural gas and oil reserves. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. 35 Table of Contents Adverse changes in general domestic economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, or liquidity. We are subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in general domestic economic conditions including recession or economic slowdown. Recently, the direction and relative strength of the U.S. economy has been increasingly uncertain due to softness in the housing markets, rising oil prices, and difficulties in the financial services sector. If economic growth in the United States is slowed, demand growth from consumers for natural gas and oil produced and transported by us on our natural gas transportation systems may decrease which could impact our planned growth capital. Additionally, our access to capital could be impeded. Any of these events, which are beyond our control, could negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We are subject to financing and interest rate risks. Our future success, financial condition and liquidity could be adversely affected based on our ability to access capital markets and obtain financing at cost effective rates. This is dependent on a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including changes in: • our credit ratings; • the unhedged portion of our exposure to interest rates; • the structured and commercial financial markets; • market perceptions of us or the natural gas and energy industry; • tax rates due to new tax laws; • our stock price; and • market prices for hydrocarbon products. 36 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 