Item 1A. RISK FACTORS This Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding the anticipated merger, Lodgian’s expectations regarding returning certain hotels to lenders, anticipated cost reductions, optional maturity extensions, property dispositions, future financial position, business strategy, projected performance and financing needs, are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Lodgian and members of its management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and generally are identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “should” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are beyond the Lodgian’s ability to control or predict. Such factors include, but are not limited to, any conditions imposed in connection with the merger, approval of the merger agreement by the stockholders of Lodgian, the satisfaction of various other conditions to the closing of the merger contemplated by the merger agreement, the effects of regional, national and international 12 Table of Contents economic conditions, our ability to refinance or extend maturing mortgage indebtedness, competitive conditions in the lodging industry and increases in room supply, requirements of franchise agreements (including the right of franchisors to immediately terminate their respective agreements if we breach certain provisions), our ability to complete planned hotel dispositions, the ability to realize anticipated cost reductions, the effects of unpredictable weather events such as hurricanes, the financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel, the effect of self-insured claims in excess of our reserves and our ability to obtain adequate insurance at reasonable rates, and other factors discussed below. Lodgian assumes no duty to update these statements. The Company believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Lodgian or persons acting on its behalf are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time unless otherwise required by law. Our business is exposed to many risks, difficulties and uncertainties, including the following: • Our ability to refinance or extend the portion of our mortgage indebtedness that is scheduled to mature in 2010 and beyond; • The effects of regional, national and international economic conditions; • Competitive conditions in the lodging industry and increases in room supply; • The effects of actual and threatened terrorist attacks and international conflicts in the Middle East and elsewhere, and their impact on domestic and international travel; • The effectiveness of changes in management and our ability to retain qualified individuals to serve in senior management positions; • Requirements of franchise agreements, including the right of franchisors to immediately terminate their respective agreements if we breach certain provisions; • Our ability to complete planned hotel dispositions; • Seasonality of the hotel business; • The effects of unpredictable weather events such as hurricanes; • The financial condition of the airline industry and its impact on air travel; • The effect that Internet reservation channels may have on the rates that we are able to charge for hotel rooms; • Increases in the cost of debt and our continued compliance with the terms of our loan agreements; • The effect of self-insured claims in excess of our reserves, or our ability to obtain adequate property and liability insurance to protect against losses, or to obtain insurance at reasonable rates; • Potential litigation and/or governmental inquiries and investigations; • Laws and regulations applicable to our business, including federal, state or local hotel, resort, restaurant or land use regulations, employment, labor or disability laws and regulations; • A downturn in the economy due to several factors, including but not limited to, high energy costs, natural gas and gasoline prices; • The impact of continued disruptions in the credit markets and potential failures of financial institutions on our ability to access capital, and • The risks identified below under “Risks Related to Our Business” and “Risks Related to Our Common Stock”. Any of these risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results or those anticipated. Although we believe the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, we can give no assurance that our expectations will be attained and caution you not to place undue reliance on such statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect current or future events or circumstances or their impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The following represents risks and uncertainties which could either individually or together cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial 13 Table of Contents condition, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and prospects could be adversely affected. In that case, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to refinance, extend or repay our substantial mortgage indebtedness maturing in 2010 and beyond, as a result of, among other things, the current condition of the economy, the resulting decline in the lodging industry and the challenging credit markets. If we were unable to extend or refinance such indebtedness, or engage in a strategic transaction, such as the proposed merger, one or more of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole may be forced to make a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing to seek protection from our creditors. Even if we were able to refinance or extend our indebtedness, a substantial amount of indebtedness could limit our operational flexibility or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition. Our ability to successfully refinance or extend our debt is negatively affected by, among other things: (i) the challenging credit markets, (ii) the lower loan-to-value ratios now required in refinancings, (iii) the perception of our Company due to, among other things, our past bankruptcy filing, and (iv) the decrease in the current value of our properties, and the imminent maturities of certain indebtedness. As of December 31, 2009, we had $292.2 million of total mortgage obligations outstanding, including the current portion, and 32 of our consolidated hotels were pledged as collateral for existing mortgage loans. These 32 hotels represented approximately 91% of the book value of our consolidated property and equipment, net, as of December 31, 2009. As a result, we have limited flexibility to sell or finance an unencumbered property to satisfy our cash needs. In addition, our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required debt service payments and we may not be able to extend, repay or refinance our maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all. Pool 3 with a balance of $45.5 million as of December 31, 2009, matured on October 1, 2009, following two short-term extensions. The extensions were intended to provide time for us to reach an agreement with the special servicer to modify the loan. Since we were unable to reach a modification agreement, we surrendered control of the six hotels that secure Pool 3 to a court-appointed receiver in February 2010. Approximately $55.7 million of our mortgage debt, comprised of three mortgage loans secured by six hotels, matures in 2010, and cannot be extended without the approval of the loan servicers. We are pursuing opportunities to extend or refinance these mortgages. A $130.0 million loan, which is secured by 10 hotels, matures in May 2010, and we currently expect to exercise the second of three available one-year extension options in accordance with the extension options set forth in the loan document. In addition, $26 million and $33 million of our mortgage debt mature in 2011 and 2012, respectively, with no available extension options. We expect it will remain difficult to refinance the maturing mortgage debt and we cannot predict whether our efforts to extend or refinance the maturing debt will be successful. Our ability to operate as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to extend or refinance our maturing mortgage debt prior to the scheduled maturity dates. For example, a debt default could lead us to sell one or more of our hotels on unfavorable terms or, our lenders could seek to foreclose on the property or properties securing the debt, which could cause the loss of any anticipated income and cash flow from, and our invested capital in, the hotels. Moreover, we could be required to utilize an increasing percentage of our cash flow to service any remaining debt or any new debt incurred with a refinancing, particularly as a result of continued hotel dispositions, which would further limit our cash flow available to fund business operations and our strategic plan. If we are unable to obtain reasonable refinancing for such indebtedness and maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our operations, one or more of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole may be forced to make a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing to seek protection from our creditors or we may be forced to surrender certain properties securing our indebtedness in satisfaction of such indebtedness, or both. Even if we are able to refinance or extend our indebtedness, our indebtedness could still have important consequences to us. It is likely that refinanced or extended debt will contain terms, such as more restrictive operational and financial covenants and higher fees and interest rates, that are less attractive than the terms contained in the debt being refinanced or extended. Our substantial indebtedness may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, the lodging industry and the general economy. In addition, we may be required to dedicate a substantial and increasing portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments. This could reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other needs, and limit our ability to react to changes in our industry and capitalize on business opportunities. This may also place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may have greater financial strength than we do. In addition, we may not be able to fund our future capital needs, including necessary working capital, funds for capital expenditures or acquisition financing from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may have to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may be unable to obtain third-party financing on favorable terms or at all, which could materially and 14 Table of Contents adversely affect our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. Any additional debt would increase our leverage, which would reduce our operational flexibility and increase our risk exposure. The terms of our debt instruments place many restrictions on us, which reduce operational and financial flexibility and create default risks. Our outstanding debt instruments subject us to certain operational and financial covenants. Operational covenants include requirements to maintain certain levels of insurance and affiliations with nationally recognized hotel brands. The operational covenants in our debt documents may reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with certain of these restrictive covenants, may result in additional interest being due and could constitute an event of default, and in some cases with notice or the lapse of time, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the defaulted debt and the sale or foreclosure of the affected hotels. Under certain circumstances the termination of a hotel franchise agreement could also result in the same effects. A foreclosure would result in a loss of any anticipated income and cash flow from, and our invested capital in, the affected hotel. No assurance can be given that we will be able to repay, through financings or otherwise, any accelerated indebtedness or that we will not lose all or a portion of our invested capital in any hotels that we sell in such circumstances. We are also subject to certain financial covenants. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with its financial debt covenants, except for the financial ratios related to the Merrill Lynch Fixed Pools 3 and 4, with outstanding principal balances of $45.5 million and $34.6 million, respectively, and the Goldman Sachs loan, with an outstanding principal balance of $130 million. The breach of these covenants, if not cured or waived by the lenders, could lead to the declaration of a “cash trap” by the lenders whereby excess cash flows produced by the mortgaged hotels securing the applicable loans (after funding of required reserves, principal and interest, operating expenses, management fees and servicing fees) could be held in a restricted cash account. With respect to the Merrill Lynch Fixed Rate loans, the funds held in the restricted cash account may be used for capital expenditures reasonably approved by the loan servicer. The cash trap provisions under the Goldman Sachs loan were waived in conjunction with the loan amendment dated January 22, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, Pool 4 was operating under the provisions of a cash trap and approximately $0.8 million was held in a restricted cash account. We surrendered control of the six hotels which secure Pool 3 to a court-appointed receiver in February 2010. Our continued compliance with the financial covenants for the remaining loans depends substantially upon the financial results of our hotels. Given the economic recession, we could breach certain of our financial covenants during 2010. Furthermore, certain of our indebtedness is included in securitized loan pools, which makes it difficult and costly to remove specific assets from the loan pools. If we are unable to maintain compliance with our financial covenants or maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our operations, one or more of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole may be forced to make a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing to seek protection from our creditors or we may be forced to surrender certain properties securing our indebtedness in satisfaction of such indebtedness, or both. Increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and interest expense. A significant portion of our capital needs are fulfilled by borrowings, of which $169.0 million was variable rate debt at December 31, 2009. In the future, we may incur additional indebtedness bearing interest at a variable rate, or we may be required to refinance our existing fixed-rate indebtedness at higher interest rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates will increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow, reducing the amounts available to make payments on our indebtedness, fund our operations and our capital expenditure program, make acquisitions or pursue other business opportunities. The value of our hotels and our ability to service our indebtedness is dependent upon the successful operation and cash flows of our hotels. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control and a cash shortfall could adversely affect our ability to fund our operations, planned capital expenditures and other needs. Our ability to make payments on, extend or refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations, planned capital expenditures and other needs will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. In addition, the value of our hotels is heavily dependent on our cash flows. Various factors could adversely affect our ability to generate cash from operations. These risks include the following: • Effects of the economic recession and the weakened conditions of the real estate and banking industries; • Changes in interest rates and changes in the availability, cost and terms of credit; 15 Table of Contents • Cyclical overbuilding in the lodging industry; • Varying levels of demand for rooms and related services; • Competition in our markets from other hotels, motels and recreational properties, some of which may be owned or operated by companies having greater marketing and financial resources than we have; • Loss of franchise affiliations; • Reductions in air travel or other adverse changes in travel patterns; • Fluctuations in operating costs, including but not limited to, labor, food, and energy costs; • The need for renovations and the effectiveness of renovations or repositioning in attracting customers; • Changes in governmental laws and regulations that influence or determine wages or required remedial expenditures; • Natural disasters, including, but not limited to, hurricanes; • Continued sale or surrender of hotels in our portfolio and resulting reduction in cash flow from operations; • Dependence on business and leisure travelers, who have been and continue to be affected by the economic recession, threats of terrorism, or other outbreaks of hostilities, and new laws to counter terrorism which result to some degree in a reduction of foreign travelers visiting the U.S.; and • The perception of the lodging industry and lodging companies in the debt and equity markets. The economic recession and adverse economic conditions in the specific major metropolitan markets in which we do substantial business could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend in part on consumers spending discretionary funds on travel and leisure activities as well as the general health and volume of airline and business-related travel to generate revenues at our hotels. Because of the weakened state of the general economy and the current unemployment rate, consumer confidence and consumer and business spending have decreased dramatically. Given these current and expected economic conditions and their impact on our occupancy and revenues, we believe there is a significantly increased risk that our operating performance will continue to be materially adversely affected. In addition to weakness in the general economy, adverse economic conditions in the specific markets in which we have multiple hotels, such as Pittsburgh, Baltimore/Washington, D.C. and Phoenix, could significantly and negatively affect our revenues and results of operations. The eight continuing operations hotels in these markets combined provided 34% of our continuing operations revenues in 2009, 2008, and 2007. As a result of the geographic concentration of these hotels, we are particularly exposed to the risks of downturns in these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Further, we use significant amounts of electricity, gasoline, natural gas and other forms of energy to operate our hotels. A shortage in supply or a period of sustained high energy costs could negatively affect our results of operations. Additionally, a shortage of supply could impact our ability to operate our hotels and could adversely impact our guests’ experience at our hotels, and ultimately, our guest satisfaction scores and potentially our franchisor affiliations. We may not be able to meet the requirements imposed by our franchisors in our franchise agreements and therefore could lose the right to operate one or more hotels under a national brand. We operate all of our hotels pursuant to franchise agreements for nationally recognized hotel brands. The franchise agreements generally contain specific standards for, and restrictions and limitations on, the operation and maintenance of a hotel in order to maintain uniformity within the franchisor system. The standards are also subject to change over time. Compliance with any new and existing standards could cause us to incur significant expenses and investment in capital expenditures. If we do not comply with standards or terms of any of our franchise agreements, those franchise agreements may be terminated after we have been given notice and an opportunity to cure the non-compliance or default. As of March 1, 2010, we were not in compliance with the franchise agreement for one hotel due to substandard guest satisfaction scores. If the hotel does not achieve scores above the required thresholds through December 2011, the hotel could be placed in default by the franchisor. Our corporate 16 Table of Contents operations team as well as our hotel’s general manager and associates have focused their efforts to cure this instance of non-compliance. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be in compliance with our other franchise agreements or that we will be able to cure any current or future alleged instances of non-compliance and default prior to the specified termination dates or be granted additional time in which to cure any defaults or non-compliance. If a franchise agreement is terminated, we may be required to incur significant costs, including franchise termination payments and capital expenditures, which in certain circumstances could lead to acceleration of portions of our indebtedness. Our loan agreements generally prohibit a hotel from operating without a national franchise affiliation, and the loss of such an affiliation could trigger a default under one or more of our loan agreements. Therefore, the termination of one or more of our franchise agreements could materially and adversely affect our revenues, cash flow and liquidity. Refer to “Franchise Affiliations” above for specific information regarding the current status of our franchise agreements. In addition, our current franchise agreements, generally for terms of 10 to 20 years, terminate at various times and have differing remaining terms. As a condition to renewal of the franchise agreements, franchisors frequently contemplate a renewal application process, which may require substantial capital improvements to be made to the hotel and increases in franchise fees. A significant increase in unexpected capital expenditures and franchise fees related to renewal of franchise agreements would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our operations and capital expenditures, one or more of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole may be forced to make a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing to seek protection from our creditors or we may be forced to surrender certain properties securing our indebtedness in satisfaction of such indebtedness, or both. Provisions for liquidated damages in our franchise agreements could require us to pay material amounts to our franchisors if we are forced to surrender properties to our lenders. If we are unable to refinance, extend or repay certain mortgage indebtedness and it becomes necessary to transfer a property to a lender in satisfaction of our obligations, we could be required to pay liquidated damages under the franchise agreement associated with such property. Significant payments of liquidated damages could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Hotels typically require a higher level of capital expenditures, maintenance and repairs than other building types due in part to property improvement requirements that may be imposed by franchisors. The increasing age of our hotels could result in additional capital expenditures to remain competitive. If we are not able to meet the requirements of our hotels appropriately, our business and operating results will suffer. In order to maintain our hotels in good condition and attractive appearance, it is necessary to replace furnishings, fixtures and equipment periodically, generally every five to seven years, and to maintain and repair public areas and exteriors on an ongoing basis. When we make needed capital improvements, we can be more competitive in the market and our hotel occupancy and room rates can grow accordingly. Further, the process of renovating a hotel has the potential to be disruptive to operations. It is vital that we properly plan and execute renovations during lower occupancy and/or lower rated months in order to minimize “displacement”, an industry term for a temporary loss of revenues caused by rooms being out of service during a renovation. Additionally, if capital improvements are not made, franchise agreements could be at risk. Because of the economic recession and its impact on our ability to generate cash flows and access credit, we may not be able to fund the required capital improvements. If we are not able to execute our strategic initiatives, we may not be able to improve our financial performance. We believe that the planned merger is the best strategic alternative for the Company. Absent a merger, our strategic initiatives include surrendering certain underperforming hotels to the lenders, improving the operations of our remaining core hotels, exploring the possibility of ceasing to be a public company and continuing to reduce our corporate overhead costs. These initiatives contain several risks, including: (i) the potential for franchisors to claim liquidated damages in connection with the surrender of hotels, (ii) the illiquidity of our stock should we cease to be publicly traded, (iii) the ability to “right-size” our corporate overhead costs with a much smaller number of hotels in our portfolio, and (iv) the ability to improve operations with limited cash flows from operations and lack of available credit. We have a history of significant losses and we may not be able to successfully improve our performance to achieve profitability. We had an accumulated deficit of $157.6 million as of December 31, 2009. Our ability to improve our performance to achieve profitability is dependent upon the state of the economy in general and the lodging industry in particular, as well as the successful implementation of our business strategy. Over the past three years, we eliminated numerous positions in the corporate office and 17 Table of Contents at the hotels. The reduction in staff, particularly at the hotel level, could have a negative impact on our guest satisfaction scores, which could ultimately impact our financial performance and/or result in the loss of one or more franchise agreements. In addition, our failure to improve our performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flow, liquidity and prospects. Furthermore, Smith Travel Research forecasted a 3.2% decline in RevPAR for the U.S. lodging industry in 2010, while PKF Hospitality Research projected a 1.1% decrease in RevPAR. Rising energy costs, the financial condition of the airline industry in general and continued threats to national security or air travel safety, among other things, could adversely affect the industry, resulting in our inability to meet our internal profit expectations. If we are unable to maintain sufficient cash flow to fund our operations, one or more of our subsidiaries or the Company as a whole may be forced to make a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing to seek protection from our creditors or we may be forced to surrender certain properties securing our indebtedness in satisfaction of such indebtedness, or both. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, acts and threats of terrorism, the ongoing war against terrorism, military conflicts and other factors have had and may continue to have a negative effect on the lodging industry and our results of operations. Force majeure events, including natural disasters, such as Hurricanes Katrina and Ike, which affected the Gulf Coast in August 2005 and September 2008, respectively, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 and the continued threat of terrorism and changing threat levels announced by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, have had a negative impact on the lodging industry and on our hotel operations. These events can cause a significant decrease in occupancy and ADR due to disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. In particular, as it relates to terrorism, major metropolitan areas and airport hotels can be adversely affected by concerns about air travel safety and may see an overall decrease in the amount of air travel. Our expenses may remain constant or increase even if revenues decline. Certain expenses associated with owning and operating a hotel are relatively fixed and do not proportionately reduce with a decline in revenues. Consequently, during periods when revenues decline, we could continue to incur certain expenses which are fixed in nature. Moreover, we could be adversely affected by: • Rising interest rates; • Tightening of credit available to the lodging industry on favorable terms, or at all; • Rising energy costs, gasoline or heating fuel supply shortages; • Rising insurance premiums; • Rising property tax expenses; • Increase in labor and related costs; and • Changes in, and as a result, increases in the cost of compliance with new governmental regulations, including those governing environmental, usage, zoning and tax matters. 18 Table of Contents Losses may exceed our insurance coverage or estimated reserves, which could impair our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are self-insured up to certain amounts with respect to our insurance coverages. Various types of catastrophic losses, including those related to environmental, health and safety matters may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment or building code upgrades associated with such an occurrence. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might cause insurance proceeds to be insufficient to fully replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. We cannot assure you that: • the insurance coverages that we have obtained will fully protect us against insurable losses (i.e., losses may exceed coverage limits); or, • we will not incur losses from risks that are not insurable or that are not economically insurable. Should a material uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur with respect to any particular property, we could lose our capital invested in the property, as well as the anticipated income and cash flow from the property. Any such loss could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. In addition, if we are unable to maintain insurance that meets our debt and franchise agreement requirements, and if we are unable to amend or waive those requirements, it could result in an acceleration of the related debt and impair our ability to maintain franchise affiliations. Competition in the lodging industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The lodging industry is highly competitive. No single competitor or small number of competitors dominates the industry. We generally operate in areas that contain numerous other competitors, some of which may have substantially greater resources than we have. Competitive factors in the lodging industry include, among others, oversupply in a particular market, franchise affiliation, reasonableness of room rates, quality of accommodations, age of the facility, service levels, convenience of locations and amenities customarily offered to the traveling public. There can be no assurance that demographic, geographic or other changes in markets will not adversely affect the future demand for our hotels, or that the competing and new hotels will not pose a greater threat to our business. Any of these adverse factors could materially and adversely affect us. The lodging business is seasonal. Demand for accommodations varies seasonally. The high season tends to be the summer months for hotels located in colder climates and the winter months for hotels located in warmer climates. Aggregate demand for accommodations at the hotels in our portfolio is lowest during the winter months. We generate substantial cash flow in the summer months compared to the slower winter months. If adverse factors affect our ability to generate cash in the summer months, the impact on our profitability is much greater than if similar factors were to occur during the winter months. We are exposed to potential risks of brand concentration. As of March 1, 2010, we operated 22 of our 28 hotels under the InterContinental Hotels Group and Marriott flags, and therefore, are subject to potential risks associated with the concentration of our hotels under limited brand names. If either of these brands suffered a major decline in popularity with the traveling public, it could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We have experienced significant changes in our senior management team and Board of Directors. Our current Chief Executive Officer has been in this role since June 2009. The Chief Executive Officer role was filled by a member of the Board of Directors on an interim basis from January 2008 until June 2009. Our current Vice President of Hotel Operations assumed the position in December 2008. If our management team is unable to develop and successfully execute our business strategies, achieve our business objectives or maintain effective relationships with employees, suppliers, creditors and customers, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. Our success is dependent on recruiting and retaining high caliber key personnel. Our future success and our ability to manage future growth will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain other highly qualified personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. The inability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could hinder our business. 19 Table of Contents The increasing use of third-party travel websites by consumers may adversely affect our profitability. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through third-party travel websites such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com, Priceline.com and Hotels.com. If these Internet bookings increase, these intermediaries may be in a position to demand higher commissions, reduced room rates or induce other significant contract concessions from us. Moreover, some of these Internet travel intermediaries are attempting to offer hotel rooms as a commodity, by increasing the importance of price and general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. Although we expect to continue to derive most of our business through the traditional channels, if the revenues generated through Internet intermediaries increase significantly, room revenues may flatten or decrease and our profitability may be adversely affected. We will be unable to utilize all of our net operating loss carryforwards. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $244.7 million of net operating loss carryforwards available for federal income tax purposes with a full valuation allowance. To the extent that we do not have sufficient future taxable income to be offset by these net operating loss carryforwards, any unused losses will expire between 2019 and 2029. Our ability to use these net operating loss carryforwards to offset future income is also subject to annual limitations. An audit or review by the Internal Revenue Service could result in a reduction in the net operating loss carryforwards available to us. Many aspects of our operations are subject to government regulations, and changes in these regulations may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A number of states and local governments regulate the licensing of hotels and restaurants, including occupancy and liquor license grants, by requiring registration, disclosure statements and compliance with specific standards of conduct. Operators of hotels are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act, and various employment laws, which regulate minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. Compliance with, or changes in, these laws could increase our operating costs and reduce profitability. Costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations could adversely affect operating results. Under various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for non-compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety requirements and for the costs of investigation, monitoring, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of these hazardous or toxic substances on a property could also result in personal injury, property damage or similar claims by private parties. In addition, the presence of contamination, or the failure to report, investigate or properly remediate contaminated property, could adversely affect the operation of the property or the owner’s ability to sell or rent the property or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of those substances at the disposal or treatment facility, whether or not that facility is or ever was owned or operated by that person. The operation and removal of underground storage tanks is also regulated by federal, state and local laws. In connection with the ownership and operation of our hotels, we could be held liable for the costs of remedial action for regulated substances and storage tanks and related claims. Some of our hotels contain asbestos-containing building materials (“ACBMs”). Environmental laws require that ACBMs be properly managed and maintained, and may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. Third parties may be permitted by law to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to contaminants, including, but not limited to, ACBMs. Operation and maintenance programs have been developed for those hotels which are known to contain ACBMs. Many, but not all, of our hotels have undergone Phase I environmental site assessments within the past several years, which generally provide a nonintrusive physical inspection and database search, but not soil or groundwater analyses, by a qualified independent environmental consultant. The purpose of a Phase I assessment is to identify potential sources of contamination for which the hotel owner or others may be responsible. None of the Phase I environmental site assessments revealed any past or present environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on us. Nevertheless, it is possible that these assessments did not reveal all environmental liabilities or compliance concerns or that material environmental liabilities or compliance concerns exist of which we are currently unaware. 20 Table of Contents Some of our hotels may contain microbial matter such as mold, mildew and viruses, whose presence could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if any hotel in our portfolio is not properly connected to a water or sewer system, or if the integrity of such systems are breached, microbial matter or other contamination might develop. If this were to occur, we could incur significant remedial costs and we might also be subject to private damage claims and awards. Any liability resulting from noncompliance or other claims relating to environmental matters could have a material adverse effect on us and our insurability for such matters in the future and on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and prospects. We may make acquisitions or investments that are not successful and that adversely affect our ongoing operations. We may acquire or make investments in hotel companies or groups of hotels that we believe complement our business. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments, it may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In making or attempting to make acquisitions or investments, we face a number of risks, including: • Significant errors or miscalculations in identifying suitable acquisition or investment candidates, performing appropriate due diligence, identifying potential liabilities and negotiating favorable terms; • Reducing our working capital and hindering our ability to expand or maintain our business, including making capital expenditures and funding operations; • The potential distraction of our management, diversion of our resources and disruption of our business; • Overpaying by competing for acquisition opportunities with resourceful competitors; • Inaccurate forecasting of the financial impact of an acquisition or investment; and • Failure to effectively integrate acquired companies or investments into our Company and the resultant inability to achieve expected synergies. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and consequently, investors may be unable to resell their common stock at or above their purchase price. The market price of our common stock could decline or fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: • Actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; • Announcements of new services or products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors; • Market performance by our competitors; • Future issuances of our common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, by us directly, or the perception that such issuances are likely to occur; • Sales of our common stock by stockholders or the perception that such sales may occur in the future; • The size of our market capitalization; • Loss of our franchises; • Default on our indebtedness and/or foreclosure of our properties; • Concentration of ownership; • The extent of institutional investor interest in us; • Changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • Domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. 21 Table of Contents We may never pay dividends on our common stock, in which event our stockholders’ only return on their investment, if any, will occur on their sale of our common stock. We have not yet paid any dividends on our common stock, and we do not intend to do so in the foreseeable future. As a result, our stockholders’ only return on their investments, if any, will occur on their sale of our common stock. Our charter documents, employment contracts and Delaware law may impede attempts to replace or remove our management or inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in our management or a change of control that you might consider favorable and may prevent you from receiving a takeover premium for your shares. These provisions include, for example: • Authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; • Establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings; and • Requiring all stockholder action to be taken at a duly called meeting, not by written consent. In addition, we have entered into, and could enter into in the future, employment contracts with certain of our employees that contain change of control provisions. The decline in our common stock price and the threat of delisting or a delisting of our common stock could have materially adverse effects on our business. The price of our common stock has declined significantly since December 31, 2004. In the event we seek bankruptcy protection, it is possible that the value of our common stock could decline further. A reduction in stock price could have materially adverse effects on our business, including reducing our ability to use our common stock as compensation or to otherwise provide incentives to employees and by reducing our ability to generate capital through stock sales or otherwise use our stock as currency with third parties. In addition, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE AMEX Equities market. The threat of delisting or a delisting of our common stock from the NYSE AMEX Equities market could have adverse effects by, among other things: • reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock; • reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, thereby further restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; and • reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate our directors, officers and employees. Risks Related to the Planned Merger The closing of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the approval of the Merger by our stockholders. The closing of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including the approval of the Merger by our stockholders. The timing of such approval and the closing of the Merger are subject to factors beyond our control. While our Board of Directors has unanimously recommended that stockholders approve the Merger Agreement, we cannot predict the outcome of the stockholders’ vote. The Merger will not close if approval is not received from the stockholders. Failure to complete the Merger in a timely manner, or at all, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and our future financial results and liquidity. Failure to complete the Merger in a timely manner, or at all, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock to the extent that the current market price reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. In addition, such failure could negatively impact our future business and financial results because of, among other things, the disruption that could occur as a result of uncertainties relating to a failure to complete the Merger and the potential inability to recover certain transaction costs related to the Merger, including a $3.25 million termination fee that could be payable to Purchaser under certain conditions. Moreover, if the Merger Agreement is terminated for any reason other than as a result of certain breaches by Purchaser, Lodgian’s subsidiary borrowing entities would be required to either pay down the principal balance of the $130 million mortgage loan facility owned by Hospitality by $5 million or pledge the Holiday Inn, Monroeville, PA as additional security for the loan. A $5 million 22 Table of Contents pay down of the principal balance would further weaken our liquidity, while pledging an additional hotel as security would further limit our financial flexibility. In addition, if the Merger is terminated or is not completed by July 1, 2010, Lodgian would be required to pay a higher interest rate on the $130 million mortgage loan facility owned by Hospitality, which would have a negative impact on our financial results and liquidity. The Merger could negatively impact our current and future business and financial results. The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of Lodgian, Purchaser and Merger Sub. The Merger Agreement also contains customary covenants and agreements, including covenants relating to (a) the conduct of Lodgian’s business between the date of the signing of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger, (b) non-solicitation of competing acquisition proposals and (c) the efforts of the parties to cause the Merger to be completed. Compliance with the covenants outlined in the Merger Agreement could restrict our ability to operate the business or result in our failure to pursue other opportunities which could be beneficial to our business in the future, should the Merger not be completed. Furthermore, management’s efforts may be focused on completing the Merger and diverted from the operation of the business. The announcement of the Merger could have a negative impact on our ability to retain and, if necessary, attract key employees, which could in turn have an unfavorable impact on our financial results. Our success depends significantly on the continued contributions of key employees. The loss of a key employee or the inability to attract and retain experienced employees could harm our operating results. Litigation has commenced against us in connection with the planned Merger. On January 26, 2010, a putative class action was commenced in the Superior Court of Fulton County, Georgia against us, each of our directors, Purchaser and Merger Sub alleging that our board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to our stockholders in approving and adopting a merger agreement that allegedly contains preclusive deal protection measures and unfair merger consideration. The complaint further alleges that we, Purchaser and Merger Sub aided and abetted our board of directors in allegedly breaching their fiduciary duties. On February 23, 2010, the plaintiff amended his complaint to add claims that the members of our board breached their duties of disclosure by allegedly failing to disclose certain matters in the Schedule 14A Preliminary Proxy. The amended complaint seeks to enjoin the completion of the merger, an award of unspecified monetary damages and to recover certain costs incurred by the plaintiff. In addition, on January 29, 2010, a putative class action was commenced in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware by United Capital Corp. against us, each of our directors, Purchaser, Merger Sub and Lone Star Funds, alleging that our board of directors breached their fiduciary duties to our stockholders by allegedly failing to obtain the highest price available for our stockholders, failing to adequately shop the Company and approving and adopting a merger agreement that allegedly contains preclusive deal protection measures. The complaint further alleges that Lone Star Funds aided and abetted our board of directors in allegedly breaching their fiduciary duties. The complaint seeks to enjoin the completion of the merger, an order compelling the board of directors to undertake a new sale process, an award of unspecified monetary damages and costs of litigation. In other papers filed with the Court, United Capital Corp. has asserted that it desires to make a bid for the Company but has not done so because of the allegedly preclusive deal protection measures contained in the merger agreement. We believe both lawsuits to be without merit and intend to defend them vigorously, including opposing any efforts to enjoin the proposed transaction. The cost of defending such lawsuits could have an adverse impact on our financial results. 23 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 