Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS The following paragraphs describe material risks that could affect our business. Other risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Risks Relating to Our Business · We make and hold in our portfolio construction and land development loans, including speculative construction loans, which are considered to have greater credit risk than other types of residential loans. We originate construction loans for residential properties and commercial real estate properties, including properties built on speculative, undeveloped property by builders and developers who have not identified a buyer for the completed residential or commercial real estate property at the time of loan origination. At December 31, 2011, $67.1 million, or 13.5%, of our loan portfolio consisted of construction and land development loans. Construction lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the progress of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. While we believe we have established adequate allowances in our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our allowances, which could adversely impact our future earnings. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in our market area. Further, if we lost our relationship with several of our larger borrowers building in this area or there is a decline in the demand for new housing in this area, it is expected that the demand for construction loans would decline and our net income would be adversely affected. · Our commercial lending exposes us to lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $248.7 million, or 50.1%, of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial real estate and commercial business loans and $ 21.5 million, or 4.3% of our loan portfolio consisted of agricultural loans. Commercial loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of nonpayment and loss than residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the business and the income stream of the borrowers. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a residential mortgage loan. Further, unlike residential mortgage 17 loans or commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans may be secured by collateral other than real estate, the value of which may be more difficult to appraise, and may be more susceptible to fluctuation in value. In addition, many of our commercial real estate and commercial business loans are unseasoned, meaning that they were originated recently, with a limited significant payment history pattern with which to judge future collectability. As a result, it may be difficult to predict the future performance of this part of our loan portfolio. · Our level of nonperforming loans expose us to increased risk of loss. Further, our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our nonperforming loans totaled $25.6 million, representing 5.2% of total loans. If these loans do not perform according to their terms and the value of the collateral is insufficient to pay the remaining loan balance or if the economy and/or the real estate market continues to weaken, we could experience loan losses or be required to record further provisions to our allowance for loan losses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level representing management’s best estimate of inherent losses in the portfolio based upon management’s evaluation of the portfolio’s collectability as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses totaled $12.1 million, which represented 2.44% of total loans and 47.3% of nonperforming loans. Our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to income, or to charge off loans, which, net of any recoveries, would decrease the allowance for loan losses. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. · A return of recessionary conditions in our national economy and, in particular, local economy could continue to increase our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the United States and, in particular, our local market area as a result of our geographic concentration of lending activities. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, and the strength of the economy in the United States generally, and in our market area in particular. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Our primary market area was also negatively impacted by the downturn in the economy and experienced increased unemployment levels and a softening of the local real estate market, including reductions in local property values. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor’s), the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. In particular, unlike larger financial institutions that are more geographically diversified, our profitability depends on the general economic conditions in our primary market area. Most of our loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in our primary market area and the surrounding communities. As a result of this concentration, a prolonged or more severe downturn in the local economy could result in significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would negatively impact our interest income and result in higher provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our earnings. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which would negatively impact our revenues. 18 · Our residential mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit exposes us to lending risks. At December 31, 2011, $74.2 million, or 14.9%, of our loan portfolio consisted of residential mortgage loans and $36.2 million, or 7.3%, of our loan portfolio consisted of home equity lines of credit. We intend to continue to emphasize and grow these types of lending, in particular residential mortgage lending. Recent declines in the housing market have resulted in declines in real estate values in our market area. Declines in real estate values could cause some of our residential mortgage and home equity lines of credit to be inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss if we seek to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral. · Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities, or on terms which are acceptable to us, could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as the current disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Among other sources of funds, we rely heavily on deposits, including out-of-market certificates of deposit, for funds to make loans and provide for our other liquidity needs. Those out-of-market deposits may not be as stable as other types of deposits and, in the future, depositors may not renew those time deposits when they mature, or we may have to pay a higher rate of interest to attract or keep them or to replace them with other deposits or with funds from other sources. Not being able to attract those deposits, or to keep or replace them as they mature, would adversely affect our liquidity. Paying higher deposit rates to attract, keep or replace those deposits could have a negative effect on our interest margin and operating results. · We may need to raise additional capital in the future in order to continue to grow, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. Federal and state banking regulators require us to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, in the future we may need to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, recently a number of financial institutions have sought to raise considerable amounts of additional capital in response to a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from increases in their non-performing loans and loan losses, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. On December 31, 2011, our three capital ratios were above “well capitalized” levels under bank regulatory guidelines. However, growth in our earning assets resulting from internal expansion and new branch offices, at rates in excess of the rate at which our capital is increased through retained earnings, will reduce our capital ratios unless we continue to increase our capital. Also, future unexpected losses, whether resulting from loan losses or other causes, would reduce our capital. Should we need, or be required by regulatory authorities, to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. However, our ability to raise that additional capital will depend on conditions at that time in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. There is no assurance that, if needed, we will be able to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all. Our inability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us, may have a material adverse effect on our ability to expand our operations, and on our financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. · If we are unable to redeem our Series A Preferred Stock prior to 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to Treasury prior to January 16, 2014, the cost of this capital to us will increase from 5.0% per annum (approximately $897,450 annually) to 9.0% per annum 19 (approximately $1,615,410 annually). Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and on our net income available to holders of our common stock. · Our profitability is subject to interest rate risk. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our profitability depends, to a large extent, on our net interest income, which is the difference between our income on interest-earning assets and our expense on interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. In other words, to be profitable, we have to earn more interest on our loans and investments than we pay on our deposits and borrowings. Like most financial institutions, we are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Interest rate risk arises in part from the mismatch (i.e., the interest sensitivity “gap”) between the dollar amounts of repricing or maturing interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and is measured in terms of the ratio of the interest rate sensitivity gap to total assets. When more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered asset-sensitive and has a positive gap. When more liabilities than assets will reprice or mature over a given time period, a bank is considered liability-sensitive and has a negative gap. A liability-sensitive position (i.e., a negative gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a falling interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a rising interest rate environment. An asset-sensitive position (i.e., a positive gap) may generally enhance net interest income in a rising interest rate environment and reduce net interest income in a falling interest rate environment. Our ability to manage our gap position determines to a great extent our ability to operate profitably. However, fluctuations in interest rates are not predictable or controllable, and recent economic and financial market conditions have made it extremely difficult to manage our gap position. Our profitability and results of operations will be adversely affected if we do not successfully manage our interest sensitivity gap. On December 31, 2011, we had a negative one-year cumulative interest sensitivity gap, which means that, during a one-year period, our interest-bearing liabilities generally would be expected to reprice at a faster rate than our interest-earning assets. A rising rate environment within that one-year period generally would have a negative effect on our earnings, while a falling rate environment generally would have a positive effect on our earnings. · Our continued success is largely dependent on key management team members. We are a customer-focused and relationship-driven organization. Future growth is expected to be driven by a large part in the relationships maintained with customers. While we have assembled an experienced and talented senior management team, maintaining this team, while at the same time developing other managers in order that management succession can be achieved, is not assured. The unexpected loss of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and may result in lower revenues or reduced earnings. · Our inability to successfully implement our strategic plans could adversely impact earnings as well as our overall financial condition. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategic plans and manage its growth if we are unable to identify attractive markets, locations or opportunities for expansion in the future. Successful management of increased growth is contingent upon whether we can maintain appropriate levels of capital to support our growth, maintain control over growth in expenses, maintain adequate asset quality, and successfully integrate into the organization, any businesses acquired. In the event that we do open new branches or acquire existing branches or banks, we expect to incur increased personnel, occupancy and other operating expenses. In the case of branch franchise expansion, we must absorb these higher expenses as we begin to generate new deposits. There is a further time lag involved in redeploying the new deposits into attractively priced loans and other higher yielding earning assets. Thus, we may not be able to implement our long-term growth strategy, and our plans to branch could depress earnings in the short run, even if we are able to efficiently execute our branching strategy. · Our business depends on the condition of the local and regional economies where we operate. We currently have offices only in eastern North Carolina. Consistent with our community banking philosophy, a majority of our customers are located in and do business in that region, and we lend a substantial portion of our capital and deposits to commercial and consumer borrowers in our local banking markets. Therefore, our local and regional 20 economy has a direct impact on our ability to generate deposits to support loan growth, the demand for loans, the ability of borrowers to repay loans, the value of collateral securing our loans (particularly loans secured by real estate), and our ability to collect, liquidate and restructure problem loans. The local economies of the coastal communities in our banking markets are heavily dependent on the tourism industry. If our local communities are adversely affected by current conditions in the national economy or by other specific events or trends, including a significant decline in the tourism industry in our coastal communities, there could be a direct adverse effect on our operating results. Adverse economic conditions in our banking markets could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us, and generally affect our financial condition and operating results. We are less able than larger institutions to spread risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. The economy of North Carolina’s coastal region can be affected by adverse weather events, particularly hurricanes. Our banking markets lie primarily in coastal communities, and we cannot predict whether or to what extent damage caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations, our customers or the economies in our banking markets. However, weather events could cause a decline in loan originations, destruction or decline in the value of properties securing our loans, or an increase in the risks of delinquencies, foreclosures and loan losses. · New or changes in existing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have an adverse effect on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Federal and state banking regulations are designed primarily to protect the deposit insurance funds and consumers, not to benefit a financial company’s shareholders. These regulations may sometimes impose significant limitations on our operations, and our compliance with regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, and locations of offices. The significant federal and state banking regulations that affect us are described under “Item 1. Business—Supervision and Regulation.” These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions conduct business, implement strategic initiatives and tax compliance, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. The laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies, and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. As a result of recent turmoil in the financial services industry, during 2010 Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Act which implements far-reaching regulatory reform dramatically changed the bank regulatory landscape. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over time, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on financial institutions and consumers. However, various provisions of the Act likely will reduce the revenues and increase the expenses of all financial institutions, and those provisions could have an adverse affect on our operating results. · Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. Our future growth and success will depend on, among other things, our ability to compete effectively with other financial services providers in our banking markets. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our lines of business and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. However, commercial banking in our banking markets and in North Carolina as a whole is extremely competitive. We compete against commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds and other mutual funds, as well as other local and community, super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions in attracting deposits and in making loans, and we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Our larger competitors have greater resources, broader geographic markets and name recognition, and higher lending limits than we do, and they can offer more products and services and better afford and more effectively use media advertising, support services and electronic technology than we can. Also, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do. While we believe we compete effectively with other financial institutions, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread marketing costs across a broader market. 21 Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be an effective competitor in our banking markets. · We depend on the services of our current management team. Our operating results and ability to adequately manage our growth and minimize loan losses are highly dependent on the services, managerial abilities and performance of our executive officers. Smaller banks, like us, sometimes find it more difficult to attract and retain experienced management personnel than larger banks. We currently have an experienced management team that our Board of Directors believes is capable of managing and growing the Bank. However, changes in or losses of key personnel of any company could disrupt that company’s business and could have an adverse effect on its business and operating results. · Regulatory and contractual restrictions may limit or prevent us from paying dividends on our common stock. We are an entity separate and distinct from the Bank and derive substantially all of our revenue in the form of dividends from the Bank. Accordingly, we are and will be dependent upon dividends from the Bank to pay the principal of and interest on its indebtedness, to satisfy its other cash needs and to pay dividends on our shares of common stock and Series A Preferred Stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to federal and state regulations that limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us based on the Bank’s ability to earn net income and to meet certain regulatory requirements. In April 2011, the Bank’s Board of Directors adopted a resolution at the request of the FDIC that provides that, among other things, the Bank will not pay any cash dividend to us without seeking the prior approval of the FDIC and North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, then we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and the Series A Preferred Stock we have sold to Treasury. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of your investment in our common stock. In addition, the securities purchase agreement between us and the Treasury that we entered into in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program provides that prior to the earlier of (i) January 16, 2012 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock we issued to the Treasury have been redeemed by us or transferred by the Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our quarterly common stock to more than $0.1825 per share, or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock then outstanding. We also are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the Warrant we issued to the Treasury, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our board of directors. · Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has and will continue to change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months of the date of enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide 22 range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as the Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give stockholders a nonbinding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years. While it is difficult to anticipate the overall impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us and the financial service industry, it is expected that at a minimum it will increase our operating costs. · We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board, and the Bank is subject to extensive government regulation, supervision and examination by the FDIC and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. Such regulation, supervision and examination govern the activities in which we may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance fund and our depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock · Increases in our capital through sales of common or preferred stock could dilute our existing shareholders. In the event that we seek to raise additional capital to support our business and growth, we likely would do that through the issuance of new shares of our common stock or preferred stock. However, our ability to sell additional shares, and the terms (including price) upon which we could sell shares, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions, our financial performance and condition, and other factors, many of which are outside our control. Any sales of additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock could dilute the book value and earnings per share of our existing stock and the interests of our existing shareholders. · The trading volume in our common stock has been low, and the sale of a substantial number of shares in the public market could depress the price of our stock and make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE Amex, but it has a relatively low average daily trading volume relative to many other stocks. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market, which can lead to significant price swings even when a relatively small number of shares are being traded and limit an investor’s ability to quickly sell blocks of stock. We cannot predict what effect future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. · Our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock affects net income available to our common shareholders and earnings per common share, and the warrant we issued to Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant we issued to Treasury in conjunction with the sale to Treasury of Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represent approximately 4.84% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 16, 2012 (including the shares issuable 23 upon exercise of the warrant). Although Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 24 