ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are based on assumptions or beliefs that we believe to be reasonable; however assumed facts almost always vary from the actual results and such variances can be material. Where we express an expectation or belief as to future results, that expectation or belief is expressed in good faith and is believed to have a reasonable basis. We cannot assure you, however, that the stated expectation or belief will occur. The words “believe,” “expect,” “estimate,” “anticipate” and similar expressions will generally identify forward-looking statements. All of our forward-looking statements, whether written or oral, are expressly qualified by these and other cautionary statements. We disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date provided. With this in mind, you should consider the risks discussed elsewhere in this report and other documents we file with the SEC from time to time and the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any of our forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks were actually to occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the value of our debt and equity securities could decline materially. Common Risks Related to All of Our Businesses The supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Our success depends on the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs. The degree to which each of our businesses is impacted by changes in supply or demand varies. For example, our pipeline business is not as significantly impacted as our other businesses in the short-term by reductions in the supply or demand for natural gas since our pipelines recover most of their revenues from reservation charges under longer-term contracts that are not dependent on the supply and demand of natural gas in the short-term. However, all of our businesses can be negatively impacted by sustained downturns in supply and demand for oil, natural gas or NGLs. One of the major factors that will impact natural gas demand will be the potential growth of natural gas in the power generation market, particularly driven by the speed and level of existing coal-fired power generation that is replaced with natural gas-fired power generation. In addition, the supply and demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs for our businesses will depend on many other factors outside of our control, which include, among others: • Adverse changes in global economic conditions, including changes that negatively impact general demand for oil and its refined products; power generation and industrial loads for natural gas; and petrochemical, refining and heating demand for NGLs. • Adverse changes in geopolitical factors, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to agree upon and maintain certain production levels, political unrest and changes in foreign governments in producing regions of the world and unexpected wars, terrorist activities and others acts of aggression; • Technological advancements that may drive further increases in production from oil and natural gas shales; • The need of many producers to drill to maintain leasehold positions regardless of current prices; • The oversupply of NGLs that may be caused by the wider spread between oil and natural gas prices; • Competition from imported LNG and Canadian supplies and alternate fuels; • Increased prices of oil, natural gas or NGLs that could negatively impact the demand for these products; • Increased costs to explore for, develop, produce, gather, process and transport oil, natural gas or NGLs, including increases in oil field service costs; • Adoption of various energy efficiency and conservation measures; and • Perceptions of customers on the availability and price volatility of our products, particularly customers’ perceptions on the volatility of natural gas prices over the longer-term. 32 Table of Contents The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs could be adversely affected by many factors outside of our control which could negatively affect us. Our success depends upon the prices we receive for our oil, natural gas and NGLs. Oil, natural gas and NGL prices historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile in the future, especially given current global geopolitical and economic conditions. There is a risk that commodity prices will remain depressed for sustained periods, especially in relation to natural gas prices which are at relatively low levels at this time. The degree to which each of our businesses is impacted by lower commodity prices varies. For example, our pipeline business is not as significantly impacted in the short-term by changes in natural gas prices as our other businesses. Subject to our risk mitigation and hedging strategies for our other businesses, our exploration and production and midstream businesses are more likely to be impacted by short-term changes in commodity prices. However, all of our businesses can be negatively impacted in the long-term by sustained depression in commodity prices for oil, natural gas or NGLs, including reductions in (a) our ability to renew pipeline transportation contracts on favorable terms, as well as to construct new pipeline and processing infrastructure and (b) our drilling opportunities in our exploration and production business. The prices for oil, natural gas and NGLs are subject to a variety of additional factors that are outside of our control, which include, among others: • Changes in regional, domestic and international supply and demand; • Volatile trading patterns in commodity-futures markets; • Changes in basis differentials among different supply basins that can negatively impact our ability to compete with supplies from other basins, including our ability to maintain pipeline transportation revenues and renew transportation contracts in supply basins that are not as competitive as other alternatives • Changes in the costs of exploring for, developing, producing, transporting, processing and marketing each of these products; • Increased federal and state taxes, if any, on the sale or transportation of oil, natural gas and NGL; • The price and availability of supplies of alternative energy sources; and • The amount of capacity available to gather, process and transport our products out of our production areas to more liquid points of delivery and sale. In addition to negatively impacting our cash flows, prolonged or substantial declines in these commodity prices can negatively impact our estimated proven oil and natural gas reserves which can cause us to incur non-cash charges to earnings. The majority of our proved reserves at December 31, 2010 are natural gas and, as a result we are substantially more sensitive to changes in natural gas prices than to changes in oil and NGL prices. In addition, such decreases in commodity prices could negatively impact the amount of oil and natural gas production that we can produce economically in the future. On the other hand, increases in these commodity prices may be offset by increases in drilling costs, production taxes and lease operating costs that typically result from any increase in such commodity prices. Our use of derivative financial instruments could result in financial losses. We use futures, over-the-counter options and swaps to mitigate our commodity price, basis, currency and interest rate exposures. However, we do not typically hedge all of these exposures. For example, we do not typically hedge positions beyond several years with regard to commodity or basis risks. As a result, we are subject to commodity price and basis exposure, particularly in our exploration and production business that has a multi-year inventory of proved reserves and unproved resources. Most of the hedges we enter into to mitigate commodity price risk are not designated as accounting hedges and are therefore marked to market. As a result, we still experience volatility in our revenues and net income as a result of changes in commodity prices, counterparty non-performance risks, correlation factors and changes in the liquidity of the market. Furthermore, the valuation of these financial instruments involves estimates that are based on assumptions that could prove to be incorrect and result in financial losses. Although we have internal controls in place that impose restrictions on the use of derivative instruments, there is a risk that such controls will not be complied with or will not be effective and we could incur substantial losses on our derivative transactions. The use of derivatives, to the extent they require collateral posting with our counterparties, could impact our working capital and liquidity when commodity prices or interest rates change. The potential impact of the recent federal legislation 33 Table of Contents regulating derivative transactions on our collateral posting requirements is not certain at this time and we could be required to post additional collateral as a result of the implementing regulations. To the extent we enter into derivative contracts to manage our commodity price exposure, basis and interest rate exposures, we forego the benefits we could otherwise experience if such prices, differentials or rates were to change favorably. In addition, when we enter into fixed price derivative contracts, we could experience losses and be required to pay cash to the extent that commodity prices, basis positions or interest rates were to increase above the fixed price. Our businesses are subject to competition from third parties which could negatively affect us. The oil, natural gas and NGL businesses are highly competitive. In our pipeline business, we compete with other interstate and intrastate pipeline companies as well as gatherers and storage companies in the transportation and storage of natural gas. We also compete with suppliers of alternate sources of energy, including electricity, coal and fuel oil. We frequently have one or more competitors in the supply basins and markets that we are connected to. This includes new large pipeline systems that have recently been constructed from supply basins in which one or more of our pipelines are located (including the Bison and Rockies Express pipeline systems) and growing competition in many of the markets that we serve, including many of the markets in the northeast and southwest (including Transwestern’s pipeline into Phoenix). There have also been various proposals over time to construct LNG terminals along the east and west coasts that could also negatively impact the demand and the transportation rates that several of our pipeline systems could charge to the extent the LNG terminals were constructed. For example, our EPNG system experienced a loss of demand when an LNG terminal was completed south of the Mexico — California border. In our exploration and production business, we compete with third parties in the search for and acquisition of leases, properties and reserves, as well as the equipment, materials and services required to explore for and produce our reserves. There has been intense competition for the acquisition of leasehold positions, particularly in many of the oil and natural gas shale plays. Our competitors include the major and independent natural gas and oil companies, foreign banks and oil companies and individual producers, many of which have financial and other resources that are substantially greater than those available to us. Similarly, we compete with many third parties in the sale of oil, natural gas and NGLs to customers, some of which have substantially larger market positions, marketing staff and financial resources than us. In our new midstream business, we compete with third parties to gather, transport, process, fractionate, store or handle hydrocarbons. Although we attempt to leverage the synergies between our pipeline and exploration and production businesses, most of these third parties have existing facilities and as a result have more scale and personnel than us. Therefore, there can be no assurances regarding our successful re-entry into the midstream business, including our ability to compete for individual projects. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and uninsured risks which could negatively affect us. Our operations are subject to a number of inherent risks including fires, earthquakes, adverse weather conditions (such as extreme cold or heat, hurricanes, tornadoes, lightning and flooding) and other natural disasters; terrorist activity or acts of aggression; the collision of equipment of third parties on our infrastructure (such as damage caused to our underground pipelines by third party excavation or construction); explosions, pipeline failures, mechanical and process safety failures, well blowouts, formations with abnormal pressures and collapses of wellbore casing or other tubulars; events causing our facilities to operate below expected levels of capacity or efficiency; uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil, brine or well fluids, release of pollution or contaminants into the environment (including discharges of toxic gases or substances) and other environmental hazards. Each of these risks could result in (a) damage or destruction of our facilities, (b) damages and injuries to persons and property or (c) business interruptions while damaged energy infrastructure is repaired or replaced, each of which could cause us to suffer substantial losses. Our offshore operations may encounter additional marine perils, including hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions, damage from collisions with vessels, and governmental regulations (including interruption or termination of drilling rights by governmental authorities based on environmental, safety and other considerations). In addition, although the potential effects of climate change on our operations (such as hurricanes, flooding, etc.) are uncertain at this time, changes in climate patterns as a result of global emissions of greenhouse 34 Table of Contents gas (GHG) could have a negative impact upon our operations in the future, particularly with regard to any of our facilities that are located in or near the Gulf of Mexico and other coastal regions. While we maintain insurance against some of these risks in amounts that we believe are reasonable, our insurance coverages have material deductibles, self-insurance levels, limits on our maximum recovery and do not cover all risks. For example, we do not carry or are unable to obtain insurance coverage on terms that we find acceptable for certain exposures including, but not limited to certain environmental exposures (including potential environmental fines and penalties), business interruption, named windstorm / hurricane exposures and, in limited circumstances, certain political risk exposure. The premiums and deductibles we pay for certain insurance policies are also subject to the risk of substantial increases over time that could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to renew existing insurance policies or procure desirable insurance on commercially reasonable terms. There is also a risk that our insurers may default on their coverage obligations. As a result, we could be adversely affected if a significant event occurs that is not fully covered by insurance. Certain of our business operations are subject to joint ventures or operations by third parties, which could negatively impact our control and operation of these operations. Some of our pipeline and exploration and production business operations and interests are either subject to joint ventures or are operated by other companies. The most significant of these are our equity interest in Citrus Corporation (and its Florida Gas operations) and GLNG in our pipeline segment, our equity interest in Four Star in our exploration and production segment and our equity interest in our midstream business. Although we operate the substantial majority of the properties in our exploration and production business, certain of the properties are operated by third party working interest owners. In certain cases, (a) we have limited ability to influence or control the day to day operation of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, (b) we cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these properties, (c) we are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures and (d) we may have restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell our interests in these jointly owned assets. In addition, we depend on third parties to gather, store and transport natural gas upstream or downstream of the assets or facilities of our businesses. If these third party facilities were to become unavailable or reduced for any reason, then revenues generated from our assets and facilities that utilize them could be negatively impacted. We are subject to a complex set of laws and regulations that regulate the energy industry for which we have to incur substantial compliance and remediation costs. Our operations are subject to a complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations that tend to change from time to time and generally are becoming increasingly more stringent. In addition to laws and regulations affecting our individual business units, there are various laws and regulations that regulate various market practices in the industry, including antitrust laws and laws that prohibit fraud and manipulation in the markets in which we operate. The authority of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), FERC and CFTC to impose penalties for violations of laws or regulations has generally increased over the last few years. In addition, all of our businesses are subject to laws and regulations that govern environmental, health and safety matters. These regulations include compliance obligations for air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharge and solid and hazardous waste disposal, as well as regulations designed for the protection of human health and safety and threatened or endangered species. Compliance obligations can result in significant costs to install and maintain pollution controls, and to maintain measures to address personal and process safety and protection of the environment and animal habitat near our operations. We are often obligated to obtain permits or approvals in our operations from various federal, state and local authorities, which permits and approvals can be denied or delayed. In addition, we are exposed to fines and penalties to the extent that we fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, as well as the potential for limitations to be imposed on our operations. These regulations often impose remediation obligations associated with the investigation or clean-up of contaminated properties, as well as damage claims arising out of the contamination of properties or impact on natural resources. Finally, many of our assets are located and operate on federal, state, local or tribal lands and are typically regulated by one or more federal, state or local agencies. For example, we operate assets that are located on federal lands located both onshore and offshore, which are regulated by the Department of the Interior, particularly by the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement. We also have pipeline and exploration and production operations on Native American tribal lands, which are regulated by the Department of the Interior, particularly by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, as well as local tribal authorities. Operations on these properties are often subject to additional regulations and compliance obligations, which can delay our access to such lands and impose additional compliance costs. 35 Table of Contents The laws and regulations (and the interpretations thereof) that are applicable to our businesses could materially change in the future and increase the cost of our operations or otherwise negatively impact us. The regulatory framework affecting our businesses is frequently subject to change, with the risk that either new laws and regulations may be enacted or existing laws and regulation may be amended. Such new or amended laws and regulations can materially affect our operations and our financial results. In this regard, there have been proposals to implement or amend federal, state, local and tribal laws and regulations that could negatively impact our businesses, which includes among others: • Climate Change and other Emissions. There have been various legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels to address climate change and to regulate GHG emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and several state environmental agencies have already adopted regulations to regulate GHG emissions. Although natural gas as a fuel supply for power generation has the least GHG emissions of any fossil fuel, it is uncertain at this time what impact the existing and proposed regulations will have on the demand for natural gas and on our operations. This will largely depend on what regulations are ultimately adopted, including the level of any emission standards; the amount and costs of allowances, offsets and credits granted; and incentives and subsidies provided to other fossil fuels, nuclear power and renewable energy sources. Although the EPA has adopted a tailoring rule to regulate GHG emissions, it is not expected to materially impact our operations until 2016. However, the tailoring rule is subject to judicial reviews and such reviews could result in the EPA being required to regulate GHG emissions at lower levels that could subject many of our larger facilities to regulation prior to 2016. There have also been various legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels to address various emissions from coal-fired power plants. Although such proposals will generally favor the use of natural gas fired power plants over coal-fired power plants, it remains uncertain what regulations will ultimately be adopted and when they will be adopted. Finally, there have been other various environmental regulatory proposals that could increase the cost of our environmental liabilities as well as increase our future compliance costs. For example, the EPA has proposed more stringent ozone standards, as well as implemented more stringent emission standards with regard to certain combustion engines on our pipeline systems. It is uncertain what impact new environmental regulations might have on us until further definition is provided in the various legislative, regulatory and judicial branches. In addition, any regulations would likely increase our costs of compliance by requiring us to monitor emissions, install additional equipment to reduce carbon emissions and possibly to purchase emission credits, as well as potentially delay the receipt of permits and other regulatory approvals. While we may be able to include some or all of the costs associated with our environmental liabilities and environmental compliance in the rates charged by our pipelines and in the prices at which we sell oil, natural gas and NGLs, our ability to recover such costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final regulations and legislation. • Renewable / Conservation Legislation. There have been various legislative and regulatory proposals at the federal and state levels to provide incentives and subsidies to (a) shift more power generation to renewable energy sources and (b) support technological advances to drive less energy consumption. These incentives and subsidies could have a negative impact on oil, natural gas and NGL consumption and thus have negative impacts on our operations and financial results. • E&P Safety. Partially as a result of a recent explosion on an offshore platform of a third party and subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, there have been various regulations proposed and implemented that could materially impact the costs of exploration and production operations, as well as cause substantial delays in the receipt of regulatory approvals from both an environmental and safety perspective. Although our presence offshore has been greatly reduced (including having no operations in the deepwater), such proposed and implemented regulations could impact our remaining exploration and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico. It is also possible that similar, more stringent, regulations might be enacted or delays in receiving permits may occur in other areas, such as in offshore regions of other countries (such as Brazil) and in other onshore regions of the United States (including drilling operations on other federal or state lands). There have also been more stringent proposals in various regions of the U.S. with regard to water usage and disposal in our businesses that could also negatively affect our operations. 36 Table of Contents • Pipeline Safety. Various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues have been recently proposed, including reforms that would require increased periodic inspections, installation of additional valves and other equipment on our pipelines and subjecting additional pipelines (including gathering and intrastate pipeline facilities) to more stringent regulation. It is uncertain what reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results. • Hydraulic Fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is a process commonly used to stimulate the recovery of production from shale formations, tight sands, coal bed methane and other unconventional reservoirs. Hydraulic fracturing has primarily been regulated at the state level through permitting and compliance requirements. Various federal and state laws and regulations have been proposed to impose more stringent regulation of the hydraulic fracturing process, as well as to require additional disclosures regarding the chemicals used in the process. Such laws and regulations if adopted could impose additional costs in our operations, as well as cause significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to drill and complete wells. In addition, there have been proposals to restrict certain buyers from purchasing natural gas and oil produced from wells that have utilized hydraulic fracturing in their completion process, which could negatively impact our ability to sell our production from wells that utilized these fracturing processes. • Derivatives. Federal legislation was enacted in 2010 to impose additional regulation on derivative transactions. The CFTC is in the process of adopting implementing regulations, including the creation of position limits and certain exemptions from the general requirement that swap transactions be cleared through a central exchange for which collateral must be posted. Although we do not currently expect that such regulations will have a material adverse impact on us, the regulations have not been finalized and there is a risk that the regulations ultimately adopted might negatively impact our marketing activities as well as our hedging activities. For example, the proposed regulations currently would not require collateral to be posted for our hedging transactions by either us or our counterparties, which are often financial institutions. However, if we were required to post collateral for our hedging transactions in the future either pursuant to the final regulations that are adopted or by our counterparties, then it would (a) negatively impact our liquidity and reduce cash available for capital expenditures and/or (b) reduce our ability to enter into hedges to reduce our commodity price exposure thereby making our results of operation more volatile and our cash flows less predictable. In addition, the new regulations could also significantly reduce the availability of counterparties and derivatives, increase the costs of derivatives that are available and negatively alter the terms of the derivative contracts. • Tax Policies. Various federal legislation has been proposed to materially revise the tax provisions associated with the energy industry. For example, proposed changes include (a) elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (b) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (c) implementation of certain international tax reforms, (d) repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and natural gas companies, (e) an increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers and (f) taxation of carried interests, including potential taxation of earnings at EPB. Although we are less impacted by such proposals than many of our peers due to our net operating loss position, any such proposals if implemented could have a negative impact on our financial results and results for operations, as well as deplete our net operating loss position sooner than expected. There have also been proposals to simplify the tax code by generally eliminating deductions and reducing the effective corporate and individual tax rates, which could negatively impact the tax allowance in our FERC-approved pipeline rates and impact the return and yield expectations of our investors and the investors of EPB. It is unclear whether these or other changes will be enacted and if enacted when they will become effective. Any such changes could negatively affect us. We are exposed to the credit risk of our counterparties and our credit risk management may not be adequate to protect against such risk. We are subject to the risk that our counterparties fail to make payments to us within the time required under our contracts. Our current largest exposures are associated with shippers under long-term transportation contracts on our pipeline systems and with some of our hedging transactions. Our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate counterparty credit risk. In addition, in certain situations, we may assume certain additional credit risks for competitive reasons or otherwise. If our existing or future counterparties fail to pay and/or perform, we could be adversely affected. For example, with respect to our pipeline and midstream businesses, we may not be able to effectively remarket capacity or enter into new contracts at similar terms during and after insolvency proceedings involving a customer. 37 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit and performance risk of our key contractors and suppliers. As an owner of large energy infrastructure facilities with significant capital expenditures in each of our businesses, we rely on contractors for certain construction, drilling and completion operations and we rely on suppliers for key materials, supplies and services, including steel mills, pipe and tubular manufacturers and oil field service providers. There is a risk that such contractors and suppliers may experience credit and performance issues that could adversely impact their ability to perform their contractual obligations with us, including their performance and warranty obligations. This could result in delays or defaults in performing such contractual obligations and increased costs to seek replacement contractors, each which could adversely impact us. Our businesses require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce and the loss of employees could result in the failure to implement our business plans. Our businesses require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals. We compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce. In addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible, which have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees. If we are unable to (a) retain our current employees, (b) successfully complete our knowledge transfer and/or (c) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted. In addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals. Risks Related to Our Pipeline Business The success of our pipeline business depends on many factors beyond our control. The results of our pipeline business are impacted in the long term by the volumes of natural gas we transport or store and the prices we are able to charge for these services. The volumes we transport and store depend on the actions of third parties that are based on factors beyond our control. Such factors include events that negatively impact our customers’ demand for natural gas and could expose our pipelines to the risk that we will not be able to renew contracts at expiration or that we will be required to discount our rates significantly upon renewal. In addition, some of our pipeline systems and expansion projects are not currently fully subscribed. For example, our Ruby and FGT Phase VIII projects are not currently fully subscribed and there is a risk that we will not be able to obtain additional customer commitments, that additional customer commitments will be delayed or that additional commitments will only be obtained at reduced rates. We are also highly dependent on our customers and downstream pipelines to attach new and increased loads on their systems in order to grow our pipeline businesses. Further, state agencies that regulate our pipelines’ local distribution company customers could impose requirements that could impact demand for our pipelines’ services. The volume of gas that we transport and store also depends on the availability of natural gas supplies that are attached to our pipeline systems, including the need for producers to continue to develop additional gas supplies to offset the natural decline from existing wells connected to our systems. This requires the development of additional natural gas reserves, obtaining additional supplies from interconnecting pipelines, and the development of LNG facilities on or near our systems. There have been major shifts in supply basins over the last few years, especially with regard to the development of new natural gas shale plays and declining production from conventional sources of supplies as well as declining deliveries from Canada. A prolonged decline in energy prices could cause a decrease in these development activities and could cause a decrease in the volume of reserves available for transmission, storage and processing through our systems. The agencies that regulate our pipeline businesses and their customers could affect our profitability. Our pipeline businesses are extensively regulated by the FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the U.S. Department of Interior, the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and various state and local regulatory agencies whose actions have the potential to adversely affect our profitability. FERC regulates most aspects of our business, including the terms and conditions of services offered, our relationships with affiliates, 38 Table of Contents construction and abandonment of facilities and the rates charged by our pipelines (including establishing authorized rates of return). Our pipelines periodically file to adjust their rates charged to their customers. Three of our pipeline systems have filed or will file rate cases that will establish new rates in 2011. There is a risk that the FERC may establish rates that are not acceptable to us or have a negative impact on us. In addition, the profitability of our pipeline systems is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers. Our operating results can be negatively impacted to the extent that such costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted to recover in our rates or to the extent that there is a lag before the pipeline can file and obtain rate increases. Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint. The FERC commenced several proceedings in 2009 and 2010 against unaffiliated pipeline systems to reduce the rates they were charging their customers. There is a risk that the FERC or our customers could file similar complaints on one or more of our pipeline systems and that a successful complaint against our pipelines’ rates could have an adverse impact on us. We formed EPB, a master limited partnership, in 2007. The FERC currently allows publicly traded partnerships to include in their cost-of-service an income tax allowance. Any changes to FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service could result in lower recourse rates that could negatively impact our investment in EPB. Certain of our pipeline systems’ transportation services are subject to negotiated rate contracts that may not allow us to recover our costs of providing the services. Under FERC policy, interstate pipelines and their customers may execute contracts at a negotiated rate which may be above or below the FERC regulated recourse rate for that service. These negotiated rate contracts are generally not subject to adjustment for increased costs which could occur due to inflation, increases in the cost of capital or taxes or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. It is possible that costs to perform services under negotiated rate contracts will exceed the negotiated rates. Any shortfall of revenue, representing the difference between recourse rates and negotiated rates could result in either losses or lower rates of return in providing such services. The revenues of our pipeline businesses are generated under contracts that must be renegotiated periodically. Substantially all of our pipeline revenues are generated under transportation and storage contracts which expire periodically and must be renegotiated, extended or replaced. If we are unable to extend or replace these contracts when they expire or renegotiate contract terms as favorable as the existing contracts, we could suffer a material reduction in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. For example, basis differentials between receipt and delivery points on our pipeline systems could decrease over time and thereby negatively impact our ability to renew contracts at rates that were previously in place. Our ability to extend and replace contracts could be adversely affected by factors we cannot control, as discussed above. In addition, changes in state regulation of local distribution companies may cause them to negotiate short-term contracts or turn back their capacity when their contracts expire. The expansion of our pipeline systems by constructing new facilities subjects us to construction and other risks that may adversely affect us. We frequently expand the capacity of our existing pipeline, storage or LNG facilities by constructing additional facilities. Construction of these facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and operational risks, including: • Our ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits from the FERC and other regulatory agencies on a timely basis that are on terms that are acceptable to us, including the potential negative impact of delays and increased costs caused by general opposition to energy infrastructure development, especially in environmentally, culturally sensitive and more heavily populated areas; • The ability to access sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund expansion projects, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline when we may be unable to access the capital markets; • The availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to complete expansion projects; • Potential changes in federal, state and local statutes, regulations, and orders; • Impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land rights on terms that are acceptable to us; 39 Table of Contents • Our ability to construct projects within anticipated costs, including the risk that we may incur cost overruns resulting from weather conditions, geologic conditions, inflation or increased costs of equipment, materials (such as steel and nickel), labor, contractor productivity, delays in construction due to various factors including delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or other factors beyond our control. These cost overruns could be material and we may not be able to recover such excess costs from our customers which could negatively impact the return on our investments or could result in financial impairments; • Our ability to construct projects within anticipated time frames that would likely delay our collection of transportation charges under our contracts; • The failure of suppliers and contractors to meet their performance and warranty obligations; and • The lack of transportation, storage or throughput commitments. Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding, delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. There is also the risk that a downturn in the economy and its negative impact upon natural gas demand may result in either slower development in the potential for future expansion projects or adjustments in the contractual commitments supporting such projects. As a result, new facilities may be delayed or may not achieve our expected investment return. Our pipeline systems depend on certain key customers and producers for a significant portion of their revenues and the loss of any of these key customers could result in a decline in our revenues. Our systems rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our systems’ revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, although there is not substantial overlap of the customers of our different pipeline systems, the four largest natural gas transportation customers for each of TGP, CIG, EPNG and SNG accounted for approximately 24 percent, 59 percent, 48 percent and 45 percent of their respective operating revenues. The loss of any material portion of the contracted volumes of these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions, or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on us. The costs to maintain, repair and replace our pipeline systems may exceed our expected levels. Much of our pipeline infrastructure was originally constructed many years ago. The age of these assets may result in them being more costly to maintain and repair. We may also be required to replace certain facilities over time. In addition, our pipeline assets may be subject to the risk of failures or other incidents due to factors outside of our control (including due to third party excavation near our pipelines, unexpected degradation of our pipelines, as well as design, construction or manufacturing defects) that could result in personal injury, including death, or property damages. Much of our pipeline systems are located in populated areas which increases the level of such risks. Such incidents could also result in unscheduled outages or periods of reduced operating flows which could result in a loss of our ability to serve our customers and a loss of revenues. Although we are targeted to complete our pipeline integrity program which includes the development and use of in-line inspection tools in high consequence areas by its required completion date at the end of 2012, we will continue to incur substantial expenditures beyond 2012 relating to the integrity and safety of our pipelines. In addition, as indicated above there is a risk that new regulations associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues will be adopted that could require us to incur additional material expenditures in the future. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located. We are subject to the risk that we do not have valid rights-of-way, that such rights-of-way may lapse or terminate, our facilities may not be properly located within the boundaries of such rights-of-way or the landowners otherwise interfere with our operations. Our loss of or interference with these rights could have a material adverse effect on us. 40 Table of Contents There are accounting principles that are unique to regulated interstate pipeline assets that could materially impact our recorded earnings. Accounting policies for FERC regulated pipelines are in certain instances different from GAAP principles for nonregulated entities. For example, FERC accounting policies permit certain regulatory assets to be recorded on our balance sheet that would not typically be recorded under GAAP for nonregulated entities. In determining whether to account for regulatory assets on each of our pipelines, we consider various factors including regulatory changes and the impact of competition to determine the probability of recovery of these assets. Currently, all of our pipeline systems have regulatory assets recorded on their balance sheets. If we determine that future recovery is no longer probable for any of our pipeline systems, then we could be required to write off the regulatory assets in the future. In addition, we capitalize a carrying cost (AFUDC) on equity funds related to our construction of long-lived assets. Equity amounts capitalized are included as other non-operating income on our income statement. To the extent that one of our pipeline expansion projects is not fully subscribed when it goes into service, we may experience a reduction in our earnings once the pipeline is placed into service. Currently, our Ruby Pipeline and FGT Phase VIII projects are not fully subscribed and therefore we may experience a reduction in earnings at the pipeline subsidiary levels when they go into service and may negatively impact our return on investment. Risks Related to Our Exploration and Production Business The success of our exploration and production business depends upon our ability to find and replace reserves that we produce. We have a reserve base that is depleted as it is produced. Unless we successfully replace the reserves that we produce, our reserves will decline which will eventually result in a decrease in oil and natural gas production and lower revenues and cash flows from operations. We historically have replaced reserves through both drilling and acquisitions. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves requires substantial capital expenditures. If we do not continue to make significant capital expenditures (such as if our access to capital resources becomes limited) or if our exploration, development and acquisition activities are unsuccessful, we may not be able to replace the reserves that we produce, which would negatively affect us. In addition, we have certain areas in which we have incurred material costs to explore for and develop reserves. These unproved property costs include non-producing leasehold, geological and geophysical costs associated with unevaluated leasehold or drilling interests, and exploration drilling costs in investments in unproved properties and major development projects in which we own a direct interest. We exclude these costs from our full cost pool amortization base on a country-by-country basis until proved reserves are found or until it is determined that the costs are impaired. We have incurred unevaluated capitalized costs associated with development and exploration activities in Brazil and Egypt for which we have no proven reserves recorded at this time. If costs are determined to be impaired, the amount of any impairment is transferred to the full cost pool if a reserve base exists or is expensed if a reserve base has not yet been created. Impairments transferred to the full cost pool increase the depletion rate for that country. Our natural gas and oil drilling and producing operations involve many risks and our production forecasts may differ from actual results. Our success will depend on our drilling results. Our drilling operations are subject to the risk (a) that we may not encounter commercially productive reservoirs or (b) if we encounter commercially producible reservoirs, that we either may not fully recover our investments or that our rates of return will be less than expected. We are also subject to the risk that we encounter unexpected drilling conditions. Our past performance should not be considered indicative of future drilling performance. For example, we have recently acquired acreage positions in two new oil and natural gas shale areas for which we plan to incur substantial capital expenditures over the next several years. It remains uncertain whether we will be successful in exploring for the reserves in these regions or in developing the reserves that are found. Our success in such areas will depend in part on our ability to successfully transfer our experiences from existing areas into these new shale plays. As a result, there remains uncertainty on the results of our drilling programs, including our ability to realize proved reserves or to earn acceptable rates of return on our drilling programs. From time to time, we provide forecasts of expected quantities of future production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Our forecasts could be different than actual results and such differences could be material. 41 Table of Contents The success of our exploration and production business is dependent on many other factors, many of which are outside of our control. The performance of our exploration and production business is dependent upon a number of additional factors that we cannot control, including among others: • The existence of commodity prices that permit us to earn an acceptable return on our capital expended and to continue existing production, rather than shutting in our production; • Our ability to expand our leased land positions in desirable areas, which often is subject to intense competition from other companies; • Our ability to successfully integrate acquisitions; • The availability of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel on commercially reasonable terms, particularly with regard to specialty rigs and services such as horizontal rigs and hydraulic fracturing services that are required for many of our unconventional drilling programs; • Our ability to locate joint working interest owners to assist in funding and enhancing the value of the development of certain of areas such as our Eagle Ford shale acreage; • Our ability to obtain timely construction of gathering and pipeline infrastructure to attach our production to markets, as well as our ability to obtain transportation free of any interruptions in service by the parties that we have contracted with to gather, process and transport our production; • Our ability to obtain increased refining capacity for our Altamont oil production, for which there is currently limited capacity to refine the higher degree of wax content contained in the production by us and other producers in the area; • Adverse changes in future tax policies, rates, and drilling or production incentives by state, federal, or foreign governments; • Increased federal or state regulations, including environmental regulations that limit or restrict the ability to drill natural gas or oil wells, limit or restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing in our drilling operations, limit or restrict our access to water rights (including disposal of water and other fluids in our operations), reduce operational flexibility, or increase capital and operating costs; • Governmental action affecting the profitability of our exploration and production activities, such as increased royalties and taxes, as well as the withdrawal of tax incentives for exploration and development activity; • Our ability to receive certain government approvals or permits on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, including environmental approvals for our Pinauna project in Brazil; • Title problems and landowner disputes restricting access to our drilling operations; • Our lack of control over jointly owned properties and properties operated by others; and • Continued access to sufficient capital at reasonable rates to fund drilling programs, especially in periods of prolonged economic decline and/or low commodity prices when we may be unable to access the capital markets. Certain of our undeveloped leasehold acreage is subject to leases that will expire in several years unless production is established on units containing the acreage. Although most of our reserves are located on leases that are held by production, we do have obligations in many of our leases that provide for the expiration of the lease unless certain conditions are met, such as drilling has not commenced on the lease or production in paying quantities is not obtained within a defined time period. If commodity prices remain low or we are unable to fund our anticipated capital program, including our ability to obtain partners in certain of our operating areas, there is a risk that some of our existing proved reserves and some of our unproved inventory could be subject to lease expiration or a requirement to incur additional leasehold costs to extend the lease. This could result in a reduction in our reserves and our growth opportunities and therefore negatively impact our financial results. Estimating our reserves involves uncertainty, our actual reserves will likely vary from our estimates and negative revisions to our reserve estimates in the future could result decreased earnings, losses and impairments. All estimates of proved reserves are determined according to the rules prescribed by the SEC. Our reserve information was prepared internally and was audited by an independent petroleum consultant. There are numerous uncertainties involved in estimating proved reserves, which may result in these estimates varying considerably from actual results. Estimating quantities of proved reserves is complex and involves significant interpretations and assumptions with respect to available geological, geophysical, and engineering data, including data from nearby producing areas. It also requires us to estimate future economic factors, such as commodity prices, production costs, plugging and abandonment costs, severance and excise taxes, capital expenditures, workover and remedial costs, 42 Table of Contents and the assumed effect of governmental regulation. Due to a lack of substantial production data, there are greater uncertainties in estimating proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed non-producing reserves. There is also greater uncertainty of estimating proved developed reserves that are early in their production life. As a result, our reserve estimates are inherently imprecise. Furthermore, estimates are subject to revision based upon a number of factors, including many factors beyond our control such as reservoir performance, prices, economic conditions and government restrictions. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production subsequent to the date of an estimate may justify revision of that estimate. Therefore, our reserve information represents an estimate and is often different from the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered. The SEC rules require the use of a ten percent discount factor for estimating the value of our future net cash flows from reserves and the use of a 12-month average price. This discount factor may not necessarily represent the most appropriate discount factor, given our costs of capital, actual interest rates and risks faced by our exploration and production business, and the average price will not generally represent the market prices for oil and natural gas over time. Any significant change in commodity prices could cause the estimated quantities and net present value of our reserves to differ and these differences could be material. You should not assume that the present values referred to in this report represent the current market value of our estimated natural gas and oil reserves. Finally, the timing of the production and the expenses related to the development and production of natural gas and oil properties will affect both the timing of actual future net cash flows from our proved reserves and their present value. We account for our exploration and production activities under the full cost method of accounting. Changes in the present value of these reserves could result in a write-down in the carrying value of our natural gas and oil properties, which could be substantial, and would negatively affect our net income and stockholders’ equity. It could also result in increasing our rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization rates, which could decrease earnings. A portion of our estimated proved reserves are undeveloped. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. In addition, as the portion of our proved reserve base that consists of unconventional sources increases, the costs of finding, developing and producing those reserves may require capital expenditures that are greater than more conventional sources. Our estimates of proved reserves assumes that we can and will make these expenditures and conduct these operations successfully. However, future events, including commodity price changes and our ability to access capital markets, may cause these assumptions to change. Our exploration and production activities are subject to a complex set of regulations that could negatively impact our operations. Our exploration and production activities are subject to additional regulations that are unique to this business. This includes federal and state regulatory approvals associated with drilling and spacing units, drilling locations, allowable production from wells, unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, spill prevention plans, limitations on venting or flaring of natural gas and competitive bidding rules on federal and state lands. Generally, the regulations have become more stringent over time and impose more limitations on our operations and cause more costs to be incurred to comply with such increased regulation. Many of these approvals are subject to considerable discretion by the regulatory agencies with respect to the timing and scope of approvals and permits issued. Our inability to obtain these regulatory approvals on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis could have a material negative impact on our operations and financial results. Risks Related to Our Midstream Business Our midstream business may be subject to additional risks associated with fluctuations in commodity prices. The midstream sector generally includes the gathering, transporting, processing, fractionating and storing of natural gas, NGLs and oil. The pricing for each of these products has been volatile over time. In addition, the relative pricing between these products has been volatile, which may affect fractionation spreads and the profitability of the business. Changes in prices and relative price levels may impact demand for products, which in turn may impact the services we provide. 43 Table of Contents A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries could affect the profitability of our midstream business. A decrease in demand for NGL products by the petrochemical, refining or heating industries, could adversely affect the profitability of our midstream business. Various factors impact the demand for NGL products, including general economic conditions, demand by consumers for the end products made with NGL products, extended periods of ethane rejection, increased competition from petroleum-based products due to pricing differences, adverse weather conditions, availability of NGL processing and transportation capacity, government regulations affecting prices and production levels of natural gas, NGLs or the content of motor fuels. We will face additional reserve and volumetric risk in our midstream business. Although the revenues in our pipeline business are typically collected in the form of demand or reservation charges and are not dependent upon reserves or throughput levels, many transactions in the midstream business involve additional reserve and throughput risk. For example, natural gas and oil reserves committed to gathering and processing facilities may not be as large as expected, the life of the reserves may not be as long as expected or the producers may elect not to develop such reserves. We also cannot influence or control the production or the speed of development of the third-party commodities we transport or process. The reserves committed will naturally decline overtime and our ability to attract new reserves in competition with third parties to replace these declining supplies is uncertain. Furthermore, the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than we anticipate. As a result, we may face additional reserve and throughput risk in our midstream business beyond what we typically experience in our pipeline business. Other Risks Related to Our Businesses, including our Corporate and Legacy Businesses Our foreign operations and investments involve special risks. Our activities outside the United States include (a) pipeline and exploration and production projects in Brazil, (b) certain accounts receivables in Brazil associated with our former power business in the country, (c) exploration and production projects in Egypt and (d) a power project in Pakistan. All are subject to the risks inherent in foreign operations and additional risks from assets located in the United States, which include, among others: • Loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of hazards such as wars, insurrection, piracy or acts of terrorism; • Changes in laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, including changes in the governing parties, nationalization, expropriation, and unilateral renegotiation of contracts by government entities. For example, it is uncertain what effect the political unrest associated with the changes in the governing parties in Egypt will have on our ability to explore for and produce oil and natural gas from our net acreage positions in the country and the value of our investments; • Difficulties in enforcing rights against government agencies, including being subject to the jurisdiction of local courts in certain instances; • The effects of currency fluctuations and exchange controls, such as devaluation of foreign currencies, relative inflation risks, and the imposition of foreign exchange restrictions that may negatively impact convertibility and repatriation of our foreign earnings into U.S. dollars; • Protracted delays in securing government consents, permits, licenses, customer authorizations or other regulatory approvals necessary to conduct our operations, including those required for the Pinauna project; • Protracted delays in payments and collections of accounts receivables from state-owned energy companies; • Transparency and corruption issues, including compliance issues with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the new United Kingdom bribery laws and other anti-corruption compliance issues; and • Laws and policies of the United States that adversely affect foreign trade and taxation. As a general rule, we have elected not to carry political risk insurance against these sorts of risks. 44 Table of Contents We have certain contingent liabilities that could exceed our estimates. We have certain contingent liabilities associated with litigation, regulatory, environmental and tax matters. In this regard, although we have greatly reduced our litigation, regulatory and environmental exposures over the last several years, we continue to have contingent liabilities (see Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 12). In addition, the positions taken in our federal and state tax returns require significant judgments, use of estimates and interpretation of complex tax laws. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for our litigation and tax matters, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. We have also sold a significant number of assets and either retained certain liabilities or indemnified certain purchasers against future liabilities related to businesses and assets sold, including liabilities associated with environmental, tax, litigation, benefits and other representations that we have provided. Although we believe that we have established appropriate reserves for these liabilities, we could be required to accrue additional amounts in the future and these amounts could be material. We have experienced substantial reductions and turnover in the workforce that previously supported the ownership and operation of such assets which could result in difficulties in managing these retained liabilities, including a reduction in historical knowledge of the assets and businesses that is required to effectively manage these liabilities or defend any associated litigation or regulatory proceedings. The costs of providing pension and post retirement health care plans is subject to factors outside of our control and such costs could increase and could negatively affect our financial results. Our earnings and cash flows may be impacted by the amount of income or expense we record for our various benefit plan obligations. Our benefit plans include obligations under our defined benefit pension plan and welfare plans for our current employees and medical and life insurance benefits for certain retired employees. Although we believe we have established appropriate reserves for these plans, we could be required to accrue additional liabilities in the future and these amounts could be material. For example, our pension plan was underfunded at December 31, 2010. While we do not currently expect to make additional cash contributions in 2011, we may be required to make additional pension plan contributions in the future. Additionally, our pension plan is supported by assets held in trust that could be negatively impacted by other events, including changes in (a) the value of our assets largely driven by changes in equity and bond markets, (b) the discount rates used to measure pension liabilities and (c) the demographics (including actuarial gains and losses). Although a portion of our postretirement welfare plans are also supported by assets held in a trust, we fund most of our welfare plans on a current basis, including our welfare plan for our current employees and the postretirement welfare plan for certain Case retirees. Medical costs have been generally increasing and such costs could require us to incur additional liabilities and make additional cash expenditures to fund such programs that could have a negative impact on our financial results. Furthermore, the costs of maintaining such welfare plans could be negatively impacted by changes that might arise out of recent health care legislation, the effects of which have not been fully determined at this point. Any of these events, which are beyond our control, could negatively impact us. We have significant existing debt which requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to service our debt payment obligations, as well as reduces our flexibility to respond to changed circumstances. We have significant debt, debt service and debt maturity obligations, many of which are more significant than our competitors. This requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes. In addition, these debt levels expose us to more liquidity and default risks than many of our peers, especially during times of financial volatility and reduced commodity prices. It similarly reduces our flexibility to compete on future projects. We have significant capital programs in our businesses that require us to access capital markets frequently and any inability to obtain access to the capital markets in the future at competitive rates could have a negative impact on us. We have extensive capital programs in each of our businesses, which requires us to frequently access the capital markets. Although the markets have become less volatile than they were several years ago, volatility in the financial markets remain. Since we are rated below investment grade at this time, our ability to access the capital markets and the cost of capital could be negatively impacted in the future. This could require us to forego capital opportunities or make us less competitive in our pursuit of growth opportunities, especially in relation to many of our competitors that are larger than us with investment grade ratings. 45 Table of Contents Our current and future debt can be negatively impacted by the ratings assigned to our debt facilities, which could have a negative impact upon us. The ratings assigned to El Paso’s senior unsecured indebtedness are below investment grade, currently rated Ba3 with a stable outlook by Moody’s Investor Service, BB- with a stable outlook by Standard & Poor’s and BB+ with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings. These ratings have increased our cost of capital and our operating costs in comparison to many of our peers. There is a risk that these credit ratings may be adversely affected in the future as the credit rating agencies review their general credit requirements as well as review our leverage, liquidity and credit profile. Any reduction in our credit rating could also impact our cost of capital, as well as potentially require us to post additional collateral under certain of our derivative contracts. Any reduction in our credit rating could also negatively impact the credit rating of our subsidiaries, including EPB and one or more of our pipeline subsidiaries, which could also increase their cost of capital. It could also impact our ability, as well as the ability of our subsidiaries, to access the capital markets. Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt instruments, as well as the market value of our common stock and the units of EPB. If we are unable to renew our revolving credit facility that expires in November 2012, then it would negatively impact us. We have a corporate revolving credit facility that is due to expire November of 2012. Prior to maturity, we plan to renew or extend this credit facility. However, many other companies have similar expiration and renewal requirements and we will be competing for available credit capacity of the financial institutions, many of which are in the process of deleveraging their balance sheets. It remains uncertain what credit capacity we will be able to obtain upon renewal. In addition, it is likely that the cost of such credit facilities (spreads over LIBOR) will increase above current levels. The amount of credit capacity we are able to obtain and the ultimate cost of such credit could have a negative impact on our liquidity, cost of capital and financial results. In addition, to the extent that we decrease the amount of capacity under our corporate revolver when it is renewed, there is a risk that such liquidity levels may not be adequate in the future especially if commodity prices remain at or decline from current levels and our access to capital markets is restricted in the future. In that case, such liquidity levels may not be adequate to manage our business and we could be significantly adversely affected. Finally, the financial covenants set forth in any new facility may be more restrictive than our current facility and reduce our financial and operating flexibility. Our available liquidity could be impacted by decreases in our natural gas and oil reserves under our borrowing base facility of our exploration and production subsidiary. We maintain $1.3 billion of our liquidity through the borrowing base facilities of our exploration and production subsidiary. A downward revision of our proved reserves, due to future declines in commodity prices, performance revisions or otherwise, could require a redetermination of the borrowing base and could negatively impact our ability to source funds from such facilities. In addition, currently our proved reserves serve as collateral for many of the derivative contracts that we enter into to hedge the commodity price for our production. A reduction in our proved reserves could require us to post additional collateral in the future for a portion of those derivative contracts. A breach of the covenants applicable to our debt and other financing obligations could affect our ability to borrow funds and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. Certain of our debt and other financing obligations contain restrictive covenants, including debt to earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and fixed charges to EBITDA covenants in our revolving credit agreement, and contain cross default provisions. A breach of any of these covenants could preclude us or our subsidiaries from issuing letters of credit, from borrowing under our credit agreements and could accelerate our debt and other financing obligations and those of our subsidiaries. If this were to occur, we might not be able to repay such debt and other financing obligations. Additionally, some of our credit agreements are collateralized by our equity interests in EPNG and TGP as well as certain natural gas and oil reserves. A breach of the covenants under these agreements could permit the lenders to exercise their rights to foreclose on these collateral interests. 46 Table of Contents We are subject to interest rate risks. Although a substantial portion of our debt capital structure has fixed interest rates, changes in market conditions, including potential increases in the deficits of foreign, federal and state governments, could have a negative impact on interest rates that could cause our financing costs to increase. Since interest rates are at historically low levels, it is anticipated that they will increase in the future. Rising interest rates could also negatively impact the market value of our investment in EPB, as changes in interest rates may affect the yield requirements of investors in its units. Our inability to satisfy all conditions precedent under the transaction with Global Infrastructure Partners (GIP) and the lenders associated with the Ruby pipeline project could require us to pay all amounts owed to GIP and the lenders under the associated equity and debt instruments. GIP has invested approximately $700 million to acquire a 50 percent indirect interest in our Ruby pipeline project. Subject to certain extensions, to the extent that we are unable to complete the construction of the Ruby pipeline by near the end of 2011, then GIP has an option to require us to repurchase its equity interests. These repayment obligations are secured by various interests in Ruby Pipeline Holding Company, L.L.C. (Ruby), Cheyenne Plains Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. (Cheyenne Plains) and certain of our common units held in EPB. Adverse economic conditions, as well as restrictions on our ability to access the capital markets could negatively impact our ability to meet such obligations, as well as permit GIP to foreclose on such security interests. In addition, GIP can elect to maintain its equity interest in Cheyenne Plains if we fail to complete the Ruby pipeline by near the end of 2011. We have provided a contingent completion and cost-overrun guarantee to Ruby lenders; however, upon the Ruby pipeline project becoming operational and making certain permitting representations, the project financing will become non-recourse to us. We depend on distributions from our subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet our needs. We hold debt at a holding company level, a company with no significant assets other than our ownership interests in our operating subsidiaries. We are dependent on the earnings and cash flows, dividends, loans or other distributions from our subsidiaries and joint ventures to generate the funds necessary to meet these obligations. Applicable law and contractual restrictions (including restrictions in our subsidiaries’ credit facilities and in our joint venture or partnership agreements) may negatively impact our ability to obtain such distributions from our subsidiaries, including the rights of the creditors of our subsidiaries that would often be superior to our interests. A substantial portion of our investments in our interstate pipeline assets are held through subsidiaries or joint ventures. In this regard, our partnership interest in EPB and our 50% ownership interest in Citrus (the holding company for Florida Gas) generally generate substantial cash flow to us. Therefore, our cash flow is dependent upon the ability of EPB to make distributions to its partners (including the incentive distribution rights to us as the general partner) and the level of distributions by Citrus to us, net of any cash calls. A significant decline in EPB’s or Citrus’ earnings and/or cash distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us. For information on the risk factors inherent in the business of EPB, see Item 1A. Risk Factors in the EPB Annual Report and subsequent filings thereof. Our ability to continue to sell interests in our interstate pipelines and LNG facilities to EPB could be negatively impacted by various factors that would restrict its use as a cost effective vehicle for us to raise capital. An important source of capital to us in the past and potentially in the future is the sale of interests in our interstate pipelines and LNG facilities to our master limited partnership, EPB. As the general partner of EPB, we are entitled to incentive distribution rights (IDRs). We are currently entitled to receive the maximum level of IDRs. Our ability to sell additional interests to EPB on an accretive basis to the limited partner unitholders may be negatively impacted by such IDRs unless we elect to reduce the level of the IDRs as provided for in the partnership agreement. In addition, as the general partner of the partnership, we could also be subject to claims associated with conflicts of interest and breach of fiduciary duties. Although the partnership agreements expressly define and limit our obligations as the general partner, if any conflicts of interest or breach of fiduciary duties are found, then our ability to sell additional interests in our interstate pipeline assets to EPB could be negatively impacted and any liability resulting from such claims could be material. In either event, there is a risk that this source of capital to us may not 47 Table of Contents be available to us or may become more restricted, thereby negatively impacting the deleveraging of our balance sheet and/or our future capital programs. The ability to sell additional interests in our interstate pipelines and LNG facilities to EPB is also subject to the ability of EPB to access the capital markets. If the access to such markets is unavailable or restricted or if the cost of capital increases, then this important source of capital to us could be negatively impacted in the future. Finally, our ability to sell interests in other pipeline subsidiaries may be restricted by covenants under existing debt agreements. We may not be able to execute our long range plan and growth strategy as planned. Our ability to execute our long range plan and our growth strategy is dependent on many factors outside of our control. As a result, our projected revenues, earnings, cash flows and the reductions in our debt levels over the plan cycle may be less than our plan has anticipated. The actual results derived from our businesses could deviate materially from planned outcomes. Our long range plan could also be impacted by material acquisitions, divestitures or restructurings of our businesses that we believe would be beneficial to our investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 