Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating us and our business. Our financial results and growth prospects depend on renewals of our membership-based services, the sale of additional programs to existing members and our ability to attract new members. We derive most of our revenues from annual memberships for our products and services. Our prospects therefore depend on our ability to achieve and sustain high renewal rates on existing research programs, to cross-sell additional subscriptions to existing members and to enter into new membership arrangements. Failure to achieve high membership renewal rate levels would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Failure to cross-sell additional programs to existing members or to attract new members would adversely impact our growth prospects. In addition, members may terminate memberships at any time without notice or penalty. We believe that our ability to secure membership renewals, cross-sell and attract new members depends upon our ability to deliver consistent, high-quality and timely research and analysis with respect to issues, developments and trends that members view as important. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the necessary level of performance to achieve a high rate of membership renewals, cross-selling or new member subscriptions. Although we actively market our research programs throughout the year, historically, more than 40% of all renewals have taken place in the fourth quarter of the year. If new products are not successful or are delayed, our business will be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new research programs that address specific industry and business constituencies and the changing needs of our current and prospective members for information, analysis and advice. We cannot assure you that our efforts to introduce new research programs will be successful. The process of internally researching, developing, launching and gaining client acceptance of new research programs is time consuming, expensive and inherently risky. Delays or failures during development or implementation, or lack of market acceptance of new research programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected if we were unable to develop and introduce successful new research programs or other new products, or to make enhancements to existing research programs in a timely manner in response to member requirements. See “Business—Products and Services.” Failure to adapt to member needs and demands and to anticipate or adapt to market trends could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will also depend upon our ability to anticipate rapidly changing market trends and to adapt our research and analysis to meet the changing information needs of our members. We may fail to continue to provide helpful and timely research and analysis of developments and trends in a manner that meets market needs. Any such failure would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The industry and business sectors that we analyze undergo frequent and often dramatic changes, including the introduction of new products and the obsolescence of old products, shifting strategies and market positions of major industry participants and changing objectives and expectations of users of members’ products and services. This environment of rapid and continuous change presents significant challenges to our ability to provide our members with current and timely research and analysis on issues of importance. Meeting these challenges requires the commitment of substantial resources. Inability to attract and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees would have an adverse effect on our business. Our future success also will depend upon our ability to hire, train, motivate and retain a significant number of highly skilled employees, particularly research analysts and sales and marketing staff. Our inability to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, intense competition for professional personnel from management consulting firms and other producers of research and analysis products and services. Many of these firms have substantially greater financial resources than we have to attract and compensate qualified personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting a sufficient number of highly skilled employees in the future, or that we will be successful in training, motivating and retaining the employees we are able to hire. See “Business—Employees.” 10 Continued consolidation of the financial services industry or sustained ecenomic distress may adversely impact our business. A number of our research programs are oriented toward companies in the financial services industry. The financial services industry is continuing to experience substantial consolidation. This consolidation has resulted, and is expected to continue to result in a reduction in the number of our financial services members. We cannot assure you that this consolidation will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. At December 31, 2007, less than 30% of our contract value was attributable to financial services members, which include commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, consumer credit lenders, brokerage houses, private and trust banks and insurance companies. We may experience fluctuations in operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to various factors, including the growth in and timing of new programs, the timing of the development, introduction and marketing of new products and services, the timing of executive education seminars, the timing of the hiring of research analysts and sales and marketing staff, changes in the spending patterns of our members, our accounts receivable collection experience, changes in market demand for research and analysis, foreign currency exchange rate changes, competitive conditions in the industry and general economic conditions. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on copyright laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality arrangements, to protect our proprietary rights in our products and services. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of our intellectual property or that we will be able to detect unauthorized uses and take timely and effective steps to enforce our rights. If substantial and material unauthorized uses of our proprietary products and services were to occur, we would be required to engage in costly and time-consuming litigation to enforce our rights. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in such litigation. If others were able to use our intellectual property, our ability to charge our fees for our products and services would be adversely affected. We may be exposed to litigation related to content. As a publisher and distributor of original research and analysis and a user of third-party content, we face potential liability for defamation, negligence and copyright and trademark infringement. Any such litigation, whether or not resulting in a judgment against us, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Third-party content includes information created or provided by information services organizations and consultants whom we retain and may be delivered to clients in writing, over the Internet or orally. We may be exposed to loss of revenue resulting from our unconditional service guarantee. We generally offer an unconditional service guarantee to our members. At any time, a member may request a refund of its membership fee for a research program. Refunds are provided on a pro-rata basis relative to the remaining term of the membership. Requests for refunds of membership fees by a significant number of our members could lower revenues and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. See “Business—Pricing.” Failure to manage our global product expansion could adversely impact our operating results. We are rapidly and significantly expanding our global operations, including increasing our product and service offerings and scaling our infrastructure to support our retail and services businesses. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results. We could be subject to additional income tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our worldwide provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. We are subject to audits in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 11 Our exposure to interest rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our results of operations. We are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our portfolio of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which is intended to protect principal and liquidity. Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid U.S. Treasury obligations with maturities of less than three months. Marketable securities consist primarily of U.S. Treasury notes and bonds and insured Washington, D.C. tax exempt notes and bonds. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit ratings related to the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our portfolio is subject to inherent interest rate risk as investments mature and are reinvested at current market interest rates. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. Changes in foreign currency and marketplace conditions may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our international operations subject us to risks related to currency exchange fluctuations. Prices for our products are denominated predominately in U.S. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the United States. Many of the costs associated with our operations located outside the United States are denominated in local currencies. As a consequence, the increased strength of local currencies against the U.S. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations would result in higher effective operating costs and, potentially, reduced earnings. In 2006, we began to use forward contracts to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent with our cost reimbursement agreement with our UK subsidiary. A forward contract obligates us to exchange a predetermined amount of U.S. dollars to make an equivalent Pound Sterling (“GBP”) payment equal to the value of such exchange. A hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would not have a material adverse impact to our results of operations. Changes in estimates or interpretations under financial accounting standards related to share-based payments could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment” (“FAS 123(R)”), a complex accounting standard that requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards and was effective as of January 1, 2006. The application of FAS 123(R) requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding stock price volatility, option forfeiture rates and expected option lives, to build a model for appropriately valuing share-based compensation. There is little experience or guidance with respect to developing these assumptions and models. There is also uncertainty as to how FAS 123(R) will be interpreted and applied as companies and their advisors gain more experience with the standard. There is a risk that, as we and others gain experience with FAS 123(R) or as a result of subsequent accounting guidelines, we could determine that the assumptions or model we used require modification. Any such modification could result in significantly different charges in future periods and, potentially, could require us to record an adjustment to, or correct the charges taken in, prior periods. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period estimates are revised. Any such adjustments or corrections of charges could negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility and/or could adversely impact our ability to obtain results on a GAAP basis that are consistent with previously provided financial guidance concerning our expected results of operations. Our business could suffer if we are unsuccessful in making, integrating and maintaining acquisitions and investments. We have acquired or made investments in companies, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. These transactions create risks such as: • disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses; • problems retaining key personnel; 12 • additional operating losses and expenses of the companies we acquired or in which we invested; • the potential impairment of amounts capitalized as intangible assets as part of the acquisition; • the potential impairment of customer and other relationships of the companies we acquired or in which we invested or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the difficulty of integrating an acquired company’s accounting, financial reporting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; • the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company; • potential unknown liabilities associated with a company we acquire or in which we invest; and • for foreign transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Finally, as a result of future acquisitions or mergers, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 