Risk factors The risk factors set out in this document have been organized into three categories: • risks related to the gold mining industry generally; • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations; and • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs). Risks related to the gold mining industry generally The profitability of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, and the cash flows generated by these operations, are significantly affected by changes in the market price for gold. The market price for gold can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations are caused by numerous factors beyond AngloGold Ashanti’s control, including: • speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; • changes in the demand for gold as an investment; • changes in the demand for gold used in jewellery and for other industrial uses; • changes in the supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; • the strength of the dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; • changes in interest rates; • actual or expected gold sales by central banks and the International Monetary Fund; • gold hedging by gold producers; • global or regional political or economic events; and • costs of gold production in major gold-producing nations, such as South Africa, the United States and Australia. The price of gold is often subject to sharp, short-term changes resulting from speculative activities. While the overall supply of and demand for gold can affect its market price, because of the considerable size of above-ground stocks of the metal in comparison to other commodities, these factors typically do not affect the gold price in the same manner or degree that the supply of and demand for other commodities tends to affect their market price. 13 The following table presents the annual high, low and average afternoon fixing prices over the past 10 years, expressed in dollars, for gold per ounce on the London Bullion Market: Year High Low Average 1997 367 283 331 1998 314 273 287 1999 340 252 278 2000 317 262 279 2001 298 253 271 2002 347 278 310 2003 417 320 364 2004 456 371 410 2005 538 412 445 2006 725 525 604 Source of data: Metals Week, Reuters and London Bullion Market Association On June 25, 2007, the afternoon fixing price of gold on the London Bullion Market was $650.75 per ounce. In addition to the spot price of gold, a portion of AngloGold Ashanti’s gold sales is determined at prices in accordance with the various hedging contracts that it has entered into, and will continue to enter into, with various gold hedging counterparts. If revenue from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, AngloGold Ashanti may experience losses and be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its capital projects or existing operations, particularly those operations having operating costs that are flexible to such short- to medium-term curtailment or closure, or change its past dividend payment policies. In addition, it would have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on its ability to recover any losses that may be incurred during that period and on its ability to maintain adequate cash reserves. The profitability of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, and the cash flows generated by these operations, are significantly affected by the fluctuations in the price of input production factors, many of which are linked to the price of oil and steel. Fuel, power and consumables, including diesel, heavy fuel oil, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, which are used in mining operations form a relatively large part of the operating costs of any mining company. The cost of these consumables is linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to the price of oil. Furthermore, the cost of steel, which is used in themanufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, is also a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditure of a mining company. AngloGold Ashanti has estimated that for each $1 per barrel rise in the oil price, the average cash costs of all its operations increase by $0.33 per ounce with the cash costs of certain of its mines, which are more dependent on fuel, being more sensitive to changes in the price of oil. Fluctuations in the price of oil and steel have a significant impact upon operating cost and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects. AngloGold Ashanti has no influence over the price of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and other commodities used in its mining activities. High oil and steel prices would have an adverse effect upon the profitability of existing mining operations and the returns anticipated from new mining projects and could even render certain projects non-viable. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as the lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining equipment and metallurgical plant. Due to the significant increase in the world’s demand for commodities, the global mining industry is experiencing an increase in production capacity both in terms of expansions at existing, as well as the development of new, production facilities. 14 This increase in expansion capacity has taken place, in certain instances, without a concomitant increase in the capacity for production of certain strategic spares, critical consumables and mining and processing equipment used to operate and construct mining operations, resulting in shortages of and an increase in the lead times to deliver these items. In particular, AngloGold Ashanti and other gold mining companies have experienced shortages in critical consumables like tires for mobile mining equipment, as well as certain critical spares for both mining equipment and processing plants including, for example, gears for the ball-mills. In addition, the company has experienced an increase in delivery times for these and other items. These shortages have also resulted in unanticipated increases in the price of certain of these and other items. Shortages of critical spares, consumables and equipment result in production delays and production shortfalls. Increases in prices result in an increase in both operating costs and the capital expenditure to maintain and develop mining operations. While suppliers and equipment manufacturers may increase capacity to meet the increased demand and therefore alleviate both shortages of, and time to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables and mining and processing equipment, individually the companies have limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers. Consequently, shortages and increased lead times in delivery of strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining and certain processing equipment could have an adverse impact upon AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Gold companies face many risks related to their operations (including their exploration and development activities) that may adversely affect their cash flows and overall profitability. Uncertainty and cost of mineral exploration and acquisitions Exploration activities are speculative and are often unproductive. These activities also often require substantial expenditure to: • establish the presence, and to quantify the extent and grades (metal content) of mineralized material through exploration drilling; • determine appropriate metallurgical recovery processes to extract gold from the ore; • estimate Ore Reserves; • undertake feasibility studies and to estimate the technical and economic viability of the project; and • construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. Once gold mineralization is discovered it can take several years to determine whether Ore Reserves exist. During this time the economic feasibility of production may change owing to fluctuations in factors that affect revenue, as well as cash and other operating costs. AngloGold Ashanti considers from time to time the acquisition of Ore Reserves, development properties and operating mines, either as stand-alone assets or as part of companies. Its decisions to acquire these properties have historically been based on a variety of factors including historical operating results, estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of Ore Reserves, cash and other operating costs, gold prices and projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or potential liabilities associated with the property and its operations and how these may change in the future. Other than historical operating results, all of these parameters are uncertain and have an impact upon revenue, cash and other operating issues, as well as the uncertainties related to the process used to estimate Ore Reserves. In addition, there is intense competition for the acquisition of attractive mining propertie s. As a result of these uncertainties, the exploration programmes and acquisitions engaged in by AngloGold Ashanti may not result in the expansion or replacement of the current production with new Ore Reserves or operations. This could adversely affect its results of operations and its financial condition. Development risks AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability depends, in part, on the actual economic returns and the actual costs of developing mines, which may differ significantly from its current estimates. The development of its mining projects may be subject to unexpected problems and delays. AngloGold Ashanti’s decision to develop a mineral property is typically based, in the case of an extension or, in the case of a new development, on the results of a feasibility study. Feasibility studies estimate the expected or anticipated project economic returns. 15 These estimates are based on assumptions regarding: • future gold, other metal and uranium prices; • anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; • anticipated recovery rates of gold, and other metals and uranium from the ore; • anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs; and • the required return on investment. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by such studies and estimates. Operating costs and capital expenditure are determined particularly by the costs of the commodity inputs, including the cost of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, tires and steel, that are consumed in mining activities and credits from by-products. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of an extension to an existing mine, or in the development and construction of any new mine. In addition to those discussed above these uncertainties include: • the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; • the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities; • the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; • the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the timing of those permits; and • the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. The costs, timing and complexities of mine development and construction can increase because of the remote location of many mining properties. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production could occur. Finally, operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of fluctuations in the prices of commodities consumed in the construction and operation of mining projects. Accordingly, AngloGold Ashanti’s future development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new production, or one or more of these new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or may not be profitable at all. Ore Reserve estimation risks AngloGold Ashanti undertakes annual revisions to its Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates based upon actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as gold price and exchange rates. These factors may result in reductions in its Ore Reserve estimates, which could adversely affect the life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining asset base and, as a result, have an adverse effect upon the market price of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Production or mining industry risks Gold mining is susceptible to numerous events that may have an adverse impact on a gold mining business, its ability to produce gold and meet its production targets. These events include, but are not limited to: • environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; • industrial accidents; • underground fires; • labor disputes; • encountering unexpected geological formations; • unanticipated ground and water conditions; • unanticipated increases in gold lock-up and inventory levels at the company’s heap-leach operations; • fall-of-ground accidents in underground operations; • failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls; • legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions; • seismic activity; and • other natural phenomena, such as floods or inclement weather conditions. 16 Seismic activity is of particular concern to the gold mining industry in South Africa, in part because of the large percentage of deep-level gold mines. To understand and manage this risk, AngloGold Ashanti uses sophisticated seismic and rock mechanics technologies. Despite the implementation of this technology and modifications to mine layouts and support technology with a view to minimizing the incidence, and impact of seismic activity, seismic events have in the past, and may in the future, cause employee injury and death as well as substantial damage to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, both within South Africa and elsewhere where seismic activity may be a factor. The occurrence of one or more of these events may result in the death of, or personal injury to, miners, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti has from time to time encountered unanticipated delays and shortfalls in production as a result of these events. As a result, these events may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operational results and its financial condition. Gold mining companies are increasingly required to consider and ensure the sustainable development of, and provide benefits to, the communities and countries in which they operate. As a consequence of public concern about the perceived ill affects of economic globalization, business generally and in particular large multinational corporations such as AngloGold Ashanti, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders – including employees, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate – benefit, and will continue to benefit from these commercial activities, which are also expected to minimize or eliminate any damage to the interests of those stakeholders. These pressures tend to be applied most strongly against companies whose activities are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of such pressures, especially if not effectively managed, include reputational damage, legal suits and social spending obligations. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Gold mining operations are subject to extensive health and safety laws and regulations. Gold mining operations are subject to a variety of industry-specific health and safety laws and regulations depending upon the jurisdiction in which they are located. These laws and regulations are formulated to improve and to protect the safety and health of employees. If these laws and regulations were to change and, if as a result, material additional expenditure were required to comply with such new laws and regulations, it could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Gold mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Gold mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which they operate. These regulations establish limits and conditions on gold producers’ ability to conduct their operations. The cost of AngloGold Ashanti’s compliance with environmental laws and regulations has been significant and is expected to continue to be significant. 17 Gold mining companies are required to close their operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in accordance with environmental laws and regulations. Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs for gold mining operations are significant and based principally on current legal and regulatory requirements that may change materially. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they are known, probable and can be reasonably estimated. Increasingly, regulators are seeking security in the form of cash collateral or bank guarantees in respect of environmental obligations, which could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. Environmental laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. If AngloGold Ashanti’s environmental compliance obligations were to change as a result of changes in the laws and regulations or in certain assumptions it makes to estimate liabilities, or if unanticipated conditions were to arise in its operations, its expenses and provisions would increase to reflect these changes. If material, these expenses and provisions could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations AngloGold Ashanti faces many risks related to its operations that may affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti uses gold hedging instruments and has entered into long term sales contracts, which may prevent the company from realizing all potential gains resulting from subsequent commodity price increases in the future. AngloGold Ashanti has restructured its hedge book which has reduced protection against low gold prices. AngloGold Ashanti currently uses hedging instruments to fix the selling price of a portion of its respective anticipated gold production and to protect revenues against unfavorable gold price and exchange rate movements. While the use of these instruments may protect against a drop in gold prices and exchange rate movements, it will do so for only a limited period of time and only to the extent that the hedge remains in place. The use of these instruments may also prevent AngloGold Ashanti from fully realizing the positive impact on income from any subsequent favorable increase in the price of gold on the portion of production covered by the hedge and of any subsequent favorable exchange rate movements. AngloGold Ashanti has utilized commodity instruments to protect the selling price of some of its anticipated production. The use of such instruments prevents full participation in subsequent increases in the market price for the commodity with respect to covered production. Since 2001 the company has been reducing its hedge commitments through hedge buy-backs, deliveries into contracts and restructuring in order to provide greater participation in a rising gold price environment, the effect of which may be that only limited price protection is available in lower gold prices. For a discussion of AngloGold Ashanti’s commodity instruments see “Item 11: Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk”. A significant number of AngloGold Ashanti’s hedge contracts are not fair valued on the financial statements as they fall under the normal purchase sales exemption. Should AngloGold Ashanti fail to deliver gold into those contracts in accordance with their terms, then the company would need to account for the fair value of all of its hedge contracts on the financial statements, which could adversely affect the company’s reported financial condition. Foreign exchange fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and financial condition. Gold is principally a dollar-priced commodity, and most of AngloGold Ashanti’s revenues are realized in or linked to dollars while production costs are largely incurred in the applicable local currency where the relevant operation is located. The weakening of the dollar, without a corresponding increase in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies, results in lower revenues and higher production costs in dollar terms. 18 Conversely, the strengthening of the dollar, without a corresponding decrease in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies yields significantly higher revenues and lower production costs in dollar terms. If material, these exchange rate movements may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations. Since June 2002, the weakening of the dollar against the South African rand, the Brazilian real, the Argentinean peso and the Australian dollar has had a negative impact upon AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability. Conversely, in certain prior years, the devaluation of these local currencies against the dollar has had a significant positive effect on the profitability of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. In 2006, 2005, and 2004, AngloGold Ashanti derived approximately 73 percent, 67 percent and 74 percent, respectively, of its revenues from these countries and incurred approximately 61 percent, 63 percent and 72 percent, respectively, of production costs in these local currencies. In 2006, the increase in total cash costs from 2005 was partially offset by favorable exchange variances of $7 per ounce. In 2005, the weakening of the dollar against these local currencies accounted for nearly $4 per ounce of the increase in total cash costs from 2004. These impacts were partially offset by the increase in the dollar price of gold, which increase was to some extent a function of dollar weakness. In addition, production costs in South African rand, Brazilian real, Argentinean peso and Australian dollar terms were only modestly offset by the effect of exchange rate movements on the price of imports denominated in dollars, as imported products comprise a small proportion of production costs in each of these countries. To a lesser extent, and mainly as a result of AngloGold Ashanti’s hedging instruments, a small proportion of its revenues are denominated in South African rands and Australian dollars, which may partially offset the effect of the dollar’s strength or weakness on AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability. In addition, due to its global operations and local foreign exchange regulations, some of AngloGold Ashanti’s funds are held in local currencies, such as the South African rand and Australian dollar. The dollar value of these currencies may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. If material, exchange rate movements may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s level of indebtedness may adversely affect its business. As of December 31, 2006, AngloGold Ashanti had gross borrowings of around $1.5 billion. This level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s flexibility to do business. Under the terms of AngloGold Ashanti’s borrowing facilities from its banks it is obliged to meet certain financial and other covenants. AngloGold Ashanti expects to meet these covenants and to be able to pay principal and interest on its debt by utilizing the cash flows from operations and, therefore, its ability to do so will depend upon its future financial performance which will be affected by its operating performance as well as by financial and other factors, certain of which are beyond its control. AngloGold Ashanti may be required to utilize a large portion of its cash flow to pay the principal and interest on its debt which will reduce the amountof funds available to finance existing operation s, the development of new organic growth opportunities and further acquisitions. AngloGold Ashanti’s level of indebtedness may make it vulnerable to economic cycle downturns, which are beyond its control, because during such downturns, it cannot be certain that its future cash flows will be sufficient to allow it to pay principal and interest on its debt and also to meet its other obligations. Should the cash flow from operations be insufficient, it could breach its financial and other covenants and may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, utilize existing cash balances, issue additional equity or sell assets. AngloGold Ashanti cannot be sure that it will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Furthermore, substantially all AngloGold Ashanti’s indebtedness matures in the next two years. AngloGold Ashanti intends refinancing a substantial portion of its maturing indebtedness and cannot give assurance that it will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations. Most of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are located in countries that have experienced high rates of inflation during certain periods. 19 Because it is unable to control the market price at which it sells the gold it produces (except to the extent that it enters into forward sales and other derivative contracts), it is possible that significantly higher future inflation in the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates may result in an increase in future operational costs in local currencies, without a concurrent devaluation of the local currency of operations against the dollar or an increase in the dollar price of gold. This could have a material adverse effect upon AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. While none of AngloGold Ashanti’s specific operations is currently materially adversely affected by inflation, significantly higher and sustained inflation in the future, with a consequent increase in operational costs, could result in operations being discontinued or reduced or rationalized at higher cost mines. Contracts for sale of uranium at fixed prices could affect AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti has also entered into contracts for the sale of uranium produced by some of its South African operations and may therefore be prevented from realizing all potential gains from increase in uranium prices to the extent that the company’s future production is covered by such contracts. Furthermore, should AngloGold Ashanti not produce sufficient quantities of uranium to cover such contracts, it may need to procure or borrow uranium in the market to meet any shortfall which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s new order mining rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the company breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights. AngloGold Ashanti’s rights to own and exploit mineral reserves and deposits are governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the mineral properties are located. Currently, a significant portion of its mineral reserves and deposits are located in South Africa. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) vests custodianship of South Africa’s mineral rights in the State. The State issues prospecting rights or mining rights to applicants. Prospecting, mining and mineral rights formerly regulated under the Minerals Act 50 of 1991 and common law are now known as old order mining rights and the transitional arrangements provided in Schedule II to the MPRDA give holders of such old order mining rights the opportunity to convert their old order mining rights into new order mining rights within specified time frames. The Department of Minerals and Energy (DME) has published, pursuant to the MPRDA, the Broad--Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry (the Charter). Compliance with the Charter, measured using a designated Scorecard, requires that every mining company achieve 15 percent ownership by Historically Disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) of its South African mining assets by May 1, 2009, and 26 percent ownership by May 1, 2014 and achieve participation by HDSAs in various other aspects of management referred to below. The Company has submitted to the DME two Social and Labor Plans – one for each of its main mining regions – detailing its specific goals in these areas. The Scorecard allows for a portion of “offset” against the HDSA’s equity participation requirements insofar as companies have facilitated downstream, value-adding activities in respect of the products they mine. AngloGold Ashanti carries out such downstream activities and believes these will be recognized in terms of a framework currently being devised by the South African government. AngloGold Ashanti has completed a number of asset sales to companies owned by HDSAs in the past seven years (estimated to be equivalent to 20 percent of AngloGold Ashanti’s South African production). Furthermore, at the end of 2006 AngloGold Ashanti implemented an Employee Share Ownership Programme (ESOP) and Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transaction, collectively with a value equivalent to approximately 6 percent of its South African assets. This is consistent with the company’s stated strategic intention to develop means of promoting broad based equity participation in the company by HDSAs and with an undertaking made to the DME as a condition for the granting to the company of its new order mining rights. AngloGold Ashanti believes that it has made significant progress towards meeting the requirements of the Charter, the Scorecard and its own undertakings in terms of human resource de velopment, employment equity, mine community and rural development, housing and living conditions, procurement and beneficiation, including the implementation of programmes to help achieve the requirement of having 40 percent of management roles being held by HDSAs by 2010. AngloGold Ashanti will incur expenses in giving further effect to the Charter and the Scorecard and the implementation of the ESOP will affect the company’s results of operations. See “Item 5: Operating and 20 financial review and prospects – Establishment of a Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) transaction in South Africa” for a detailed discussion on the implementation of ESOP. AngloGold Ashanti was informed on August 1, 2005, by the Director General of Minerals and Energy that its applications to convert its old order mining rights to new order mining rights for its West Wits and Vaal River operations, as well as its applications for new mining rights to extend its mining areas at its TauTona and Kopanang mines, had been successful. These applications relate to all of its existing operations in South Africa. AngloGold Ashanti has reviewed certain draft notarial rights agreements, which it received from the Department of Minerals and Energy relating to the various rights. The notarial agreement for the West Wits operations has subsequently been executed and registered as has the notarial agreement for Jonkerskraw, which forms a portion of the Vaal River rights. The notarial agreements for the Vaal River operations are pending. AngloGold Ashanti submitted two applications to D ME for the conversion of two unused old order prospecting rights to new order prospecting rights, one of which it has subsequently withdrawn. The DME has approved the conversion of the remaining prospecting right which had been registered. Even where new order mining rights are obtained under the MPRDA, these rights may not be equivalent to the old order mining rights. The AngloGold Ashanti rights that have been converted and registered do not differ significantly from the relevant old order rights. The duration of the new rights will no longer be perpetual as was the case under old order mining rights but rather will be granted for a maximum period of 30 years, with renewals of up to 30 years each and, in the case of prospecting rights, a maximum period of five years with one renewal of up to three years. Furthermore, the MPRDA provides for a retention period after prospecting of up to three years with one renewal of up to two years, subject to certain conditions, such as non-concentration of resources, fair competition and non-exclusion of others. In addition, the new order rights will only be transferable subject to the approval of t he Minister of Minerals and Energy. The new order mining rights can be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Minerals and Energy if, upon notice of a breach from the Minister, the entity breaching its obligations in terms of the guidelines issued for converted mining rights fails to remedy such breach. The MPRDA also imposes additional responsibilities on mining companies relating to environmental management and to environmental damage, degradation or pollution resulting from their prospecting or mining activities. AngloGold Ashanti has a policy of evaluating, minimizing and addressing the environmental consequences of its activities and, consistent with this policy and the MPRDA, conducts an annual review of the environmental costs and liabilities associated with the company’s South African operations in light of the new, as well as existing, environmental requirements. The proposed introduction of South African State royalties where a significant portion of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral reserves and operations are located could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and its financial condition. The South African government has announced the details of the proposed new legislation, whereby the new order rights will be subject to a State royalty. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Royalty Bill was published on October 11, 2006 and provides for the payment of a royalty of 1.5 percent of gross revenue attributable to refined gold per year, payable quarterly. The royalty is tax deductible. The payment of royalties will commence on May 1, 2009, if the Bill is passed by Parliament in its current form. Certain factors may affect AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to support the carrying value of its property, plants and equipment, acquired properties, investments and goodwill on its balance sheet. AngloGold Ashanti reviews and tests the carrying value of its assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. AngloGold Ashanti values individual mining assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are identifiable as independent of cash flows of other mining assets and liabilities. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, AngloGold Ashanti prepares estimates of expected future cash flows for each group of assets. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. They are significantly affected by reserve and production estimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure. 21 If any of these uncertainties occur either alone or in combination, it could require management to recognize an impairment, which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact AngloGold Ashanti’s reported financial results The mining industry has limited industry specific accounting literature. As a result, diversity exists in the interpretation andapplication of accounting literature to mining specific issues. For example, AngloGold Ashanti capitalizes the drilling and related costs incurred to define and delineate a residual mineral deposit that has not been classified as proven and probable reserves at a development stage or production stage mine, whereas some companies expense such costs. (See “Item 5: Operating and financial review and prospects – Critical accounting policies”). As and when diversity in interpretation and application is addressed, it may impact AngloGold Ashanti’s reported results should the adopted interpretation differ from the position followed by AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral reserves and deposits and mining operations are located in countries that face political, economic and security risks. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral deposits and mining and exploration operations are located in countries that have experienced political instability and economic uncertainty. In all of the countries where AngloGold Ashanti operates, the formulation or implementation of government policies may be unpredictable on certain issues including regulations which impact on its operations and changes in laws relating to issues such as mineral rights and asset ownership, taxation, royalties, import and export duties, currency transfers, restrictions on foreign currency holdings and repatriation of earnings. Any existing and new mining and exploration operations and projects AngloGold Ashanti carries out in these countries are, and will be subject to, various national and local laws, policies and regulations governing the ownership, prospecting, development and mining of mineral reserves, taxation and royalties, exchange controls, import and export duties and restrictions, investment approvals, employee and social/community relations and other matters. If, in one or more of these countries, AngloGold Ashanti was not able to obtain or maintain necessary permits, authorizations or agreements to implement planned projects or continue its operations under conditions or within time frames that make such plans and operations economic, or if legal, ownership, fiscal (including all royalties and duties), exchange control, employment, environmental and social laws and regimes, or the governing political authorities change materially which could result in changes to such laws and regimes, its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. For example, in Mali and Tanzania, AngloGold Ashanti is due refunds of input tax which remain outstanding for periods longer than those provided for in the respective statutes. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti has outstanding assessments and unresolved tax disputes in a number of countries. If the outstanding input taxes are not received, the tax disputes are not resolved and assessments are not made in a manner favorable to AngloGold Ashanti, it could have an adverse effect upon its results of operations and its financial condition. Certain of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti has mineral deposits or mining or exploration operations, including the Democratic Republic of Congo and Colombia, have in the past experienced and in certain cases continue to experience, a difficult security environment as well as political instability. In particular, various illegal groups active in regions in which the company is present may pose a credible threat of terrorism, extortion and kidnapping, which could have an adverse effect on the company’s operations in such regions. In the event that continued operations in these countries compromise AngloGold Ashanti’s security or business principles, it may withdraw from these countries on a temporary or permanent basis, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and its financial condition. Labor disruptions and/or increased labor costs could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and financial condition. As at December 31, 2006, approximately 69 percent (2005: 72 percent) of AngloGold Ashanti’s workforce excluding contractors or 62 percent of total workforce was located in South Africa. Approximately 97.8 percent of the workforce on its South African operations is unionized, with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) representing the majority of unionized workers. 22 AngloGold Ashanti’s employees in some South American countries and Ghana are also highly unionized. Trade unions have a significant impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s labor relations climate, as well as on social and political reforms, most notably in South Africa. It has become established practice to negotiate wages and conditions of employment with the unions every two years through the Chamber of Mines of South Africa. A two-year wage agreement was signed with NUM in August 2005, following negotiations between NUM, United Associations of South Africa (on behalf of some clerical and junior management staff) and Solidarity (on behalf of a small number of miners) and the Chamber of Mines. Agreement was only reached after a four-day strike which affected all of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations in South Africa. Labor costs represent a substantial proportion of AngloGold Ashanti’s total operating costs and in many operations, including South African operations, is the company’s single largest operating cost category. The two-year wage agreement will be reviewed in June 2007 in negotiation with NUM, UASA, Solidarity and the Chamber of Mines and this process is likely to result in further increase in labor costs in South Africa. These increases in labor costs, including those in other parts of the world, in the absence of further productivity increases, will have an adverse impact on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. There is a risk that strikes or other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any one of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. It is uncertain whether labor disruptions will be used to advocate labor, political or social goals in the future. Should any labor disruptions occur, if material, they could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. The use of mining contractors at certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining activities and increases in mining costs. Mining contractors are used at certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s mines, including Sadiola, Morila and Yatela in Mali, Siguiri in Guinea, Iduapriem in Ghana and Sunrise Dam in Australia, to mine and deliver ore to processing plants. Consequently, at these mines, AngloGold Ashanti does not own all of the mining equipment and may face disruption of operations and incur costs and liabilities in the event that any of the mining contractors at these mines has financial difficulties, or should therebe a dispute in renegotiating a mining contract, or a delay in replacing an existing contractor. Furthermore, increases in contract mining rates, in the absence of associated productivity increases, will have an adverse impact on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies for key human resources. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies on a global basis to attract and retain key human resources at all levels with appropriate technical skills and operating and managerial experience necessary to continue to operate its business. This is further exacerbated in the current environment of increased mining activity across the globe combined with the global shortage of key mining industry human resource skills, including geologist, mining engineers, metallurgists and skilled artisans. The retention of staff is particularly challenging in South Africa, where, in addition to the impacts of the global industry wide shortages, AngloGold Ashanti is also required to achieve employment equity targets of participation by HDSAs in management and other positions. AngloGold Ashanti competes with all companies in South Africa to attract and retain a small but growing pool of HDSAs with the necessary skills and experience. For further details see the risk factor “AngloGold Ashanti’s new order mineral rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the company breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights”. There can be no assurance that AngloGold Ashanti will attract and retain skilled and experienced employees and, should it lose any of its key personnel, its business may be harmed and its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. 23 AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with HIV/AIDS which may adversely affect its results of operations and its financial condition. AIDS remains the major health care challenge faced by AngloGold Ashanti’s South African operations. Accurate prevalence data for AIDS is not available. The South African workforce prevalence studies indicate that the percentage of AngloGold Ashanti’s South African workforce that may be infected by HIV may be as high as 30 percent. AngloGold Ashanti is continuing to develop and implement various programmes aimed at helping those who have been infected with HIV and preventing new infections. Since 2001 AngloGold Ashanti has offered a voluntary counseling and HIV testing programme for employees in South Africa. In 2002 AngloGold Ashanti began to offer anti-retroviral therapy (ART) to HIV positive employees who met the current medical criteria for the initiation of ART. From April 2003, AngloGold Ashanti commenced a roll-out of the treatment to all eligible employees desiring it. Currently appr oximately 3,750 employees are on the wellness programme and as at December 2006, approximately 1,589 employees were receiving treatment using anti-retroviral drugs. The cost of providing rigorous outcome-focused disease management of employees with AIDS, including the provision of an anti-retroviral therapy, is on average R1,300 ($185) per employee on treatment per month. It is not yet possible to develop an accurate cost estimate of the programme in its entirety, given uncertainties such as drug prices and the ultimate rate of employee participation. AngloGold Ashanti does not expect the cost that it will incur related to the prevention of HIV infection and the treatment of AIDS to materially and adversely affect its results of operations. Nevertheless, it is not possible to determine with certaintythe costs that AngloGold Ashanti may incur in the future in addressing this issue, and consequently its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with malaria, particularly at its operations located in Africa, which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Malaria is a significant health risk at all of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations in Central, West and East Africa where the disease assumes epidemic proportions because of ineffective national control programmes. The disease is a major cause of death in young children and pregnant women but also gives rise to fatalities and absenteeism in adult men. Consequently, if uncontrolled, the disease could have an adverse effect upon productivity and profitability levels of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations located in these regions. The treatment of occupational health diseases and the potential liabilities related to occupational health diseases may have an adverse effect upon the results of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and its financial condition. The primary areas of focus in respect of occupational health within AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), occupational lung diseases (OLD) and tuberculosis (TB). AngloGold Ashanti provides occupational health services to its employees at its occupational health centers and it continues to improve preventative occupational hygiene initiatives. If the costs associated with providing such occupational health services increase, such increase could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Furthermore, the South African government, by way of a cabinet resolution in 1999, proposed a possible combination and alignment of benefits of the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act (ODMWA) that provides for compensation to miners who have OLD, TB and combinations thereof, and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA) that provides for compensation to non-miners who have OLD. COIDA provides for compensation payments to workers suffering permanent disabilities from OLD, which are classified as pension liabilities if the permanent disability is above a certain threshold, or a lump sum compensation payment if the permanent disability is below a certain threshold. ODMWA only provides for a lump sum compensation payment to workers suffering from OLD. The capitalized value of a pension liability (in accordance with COIDA) is usually greater than that of a lump sum compensation payment (under ODMWA). In addition, under COIDA compensation becomes payable at a lower threshold of permanent disability than under ODMWA. It is estimated that under COIDA about two to three times more of AngloGold Ashanti’s employees would be compensated as compared with those eligible for compensation under ODMWA. If the proposed combination of COIDA and ODMWA were to occur, this could further increase the level of compensation claims AngloGold Ashanti could be subject to and consequently could have an adverse effect on its financial condition. 24 The costs associated with the pumping of water inflows from closed mines adjacent to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could have an adverse effect upon its results of operations. Certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations are located adjacent to the mining operations of other mining companies. The closure of a mining operation may have an impact upon continued operations at the adjacent mine if appropriate preventative steps are not taken. In particular, this can include the ingress of underground water where pumping operations at the adjacent closed mine are suspended. Such ingress could have an adverse effect upon any one of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations as a result of property damage, disruption to operations and additional pumping costs. AngloGold Ashanti has embarked on legal action in South Africa after the owner of an adjacent mine put the company owning the adjacent mining operation into liquidation, raising questions about its and other companies’ willingness to meet their water pumping obligations. The relevant mining companies have entered into a settlement agreement and will establish a not-for-profit water company to conduct the water pumping activities at the highest lying shaft which is owned by Stilfontein Gold Mining Company (in liquidation). The three mining companies will contribute equally to the cost of establishing and initially running the water company until it becomes self funding. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s power supplies are not always reliable and have on occasion forced it to halt or curtail activities at its mines. Power fluctuations and power cost increases may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. All of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations in Ghana are dependent for their electricity supply on hydro-electric power supplied by the Volta River Authority (VRA) an entity controlled by the government of Ghana, although AngloGold Ashanti also has access to VRA electricity supply from a recently constructed smaller thermal plant. The VRA’s principal electricity generating facility is the Akosombo Dam and during periods of below average inflows from the Volta reservoir, electricity supplies from the Akosombo Dam may be curtailed, as occurred in 1998. In addition, this electricity supply has been subject to voltage fluctuations, which can damage the group’s equipment. The VRA also obtains power from neighboring Cote d’Ivoire, which has intermittently experienced some political instability and civil unrest. These factors, including increased power demand from other users in Ghana, may cause interruptions in AngloGold Ashanti’s power supply to its operations in Ghana or result in increases in the cost of power even if they do not interrupt supply. Consequently, these factors may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. In order to address this problem and to supplement the power generated by the VRA, AngloGold Ashanti have agreed together with the other three principal gold producers in Ghana to acquire (and equally fund) an 85 megawatt, diesel-fired, power plant that could be converted to gas supply once the anticipated West African Gas Pipeline is developed. While AngloGold Ashanti believes that this additional power should alleviate any current power shortages, it may not do so if the power supply from the VRA further deteriorates due to either reduced power generation or increased demand from other users. AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations in Guinea, Tanzania and Mali are dependent on power supplied by outside contractors and supplies of fuel being delivered by road. AngloGold Ashanti’s power supply has been disrupted in the past and it has suffered resulting production losses as a result of equipment failure. Recently, South Africa has started to experience power outages. Should similar events occur in future, or should fluctuations or power cost increases adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s other operations, this would have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operational results and its financial condition. The occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured or for which its insurance is inadequate may adversely affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti maintains insurance to protect only against catastrophic events which could have a significant adverse effect on its operations and profitability. This insurance is maintained in amounts that are believed to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. 25 However, AngloGold Ashanti’s insurance does not cover all potential risks associated with its business. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti may elect not to insure certain risks, due to the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons, including an assessment that the risks are remote. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable premiums. AngloGold Ashanti has a captive insurance company, namely AGRe Insurance Company Limited, which participates at various levels in certain of the insurances maintained by AngloGold Ashanti. The occurrence of events for which it is not insured may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s cash flows and overall profitability. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Sales of large quantities of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and ADSs, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of such securities. The market price of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares or ADSs could fall if large quantities of ordinary shares or ADSs are sold in the public market, or there is the perception in the marketplace that such sales could occur. Subject to applicable securities laws, holders of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares or ADSs may decide to sell them at any time. AngloGold Ashanti has entered into a registration rights agreement with AA plc that would facilitate US registration of additional offers and sales of AngloGold Ashanti shares that AA plc makes in the future, subject to certain conditions. Sales of ordinary shares or ADSs if substantial, or the perception that sales may occur and be substantial, could exert downward pressure on the prevailing market prices for AngloGold Ashanti ordinary shares or ADSs, causing their market prices to decline. In April 2006 Anglo American plc (AA plc) sold 19,685,170 ordinary shares it held in AngloGold Ashanti, reducing AA plc’s shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti from approximately 51 percent of outstanding shares to approximately 42 percent as at December 31, 2006. AA plc has stated that it intends to reduce and ultimately to exit its gold company holdings and that it will continue to explore all available options to exit AngloGold Ashanti in an orderly manner. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of different currencies may reduce the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities, as well as the market value of any dividends or distributions paid by AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti has historically declared all dividends in South African rands. As a result, exchange rate movements may have affected and may continue to affect the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Ghanaian cedi and the US dollar value of these dividends, as well as of any other distributions paid by the relevant depositary to investors that hold AngloGold Ashanti’s securities. This may reduce the value of these securities to investors. The Memorandum and Articles of Association of the company allows for dividends and distributions to be declared in any currency at the discretion of AngloGold Ashanti’s board of directors, or its shareholders at a general meeting. If and to the extent that AngloGold Ashanti opts to declare dividends and distributions in dollars, exchange rate movements will not affect the dollar value of any dividends or distributions. Nevertheless, the value of any dividend or distribution in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis or South African rands will continue to be affected. If and to the extent that dividends and distributions are declared in South African rands, exchange rate movements will continue to affect the Australian dollar, British pound, Ghanaian cedi and US dollar value of these dividends and distributions. Furthermore, the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities as expressed in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis, US dollars and South African rands will continue to fluctuate in part as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations. The recently announced proposal by the South African Government to replace Secondary Tax on Companies with withholding tax on dividends and other distributions may impact on the amount of dividends or other distributions received by the company’s shareholders On February 21, 2007, the South African Government announced a proposal to replace Secondary Tax on Companies with a 10 percent withholding tax on dividends and other distributions payable to shareholders. This proposal is expected to be implemented in phases between 2007 and 2009. Although this may reduce the tax payable by the South African operations of the company thereby increasing distributable earnings, the withholding tax will generally reduce the amount of dividends or other distributions received by AngloGold Ashanti shareholders. 26 