Risk Factors.” The Communications Act and an implementing FCC rule require that when it is not evident from the content that any money, goods, services or other valuable consideration has been paid or promised to a station or an employee for the broadcast of certain programming, appropriate sponsorship identification announcement(s) must be given. Following inquiries initiated by the FCC into sponsorship identification practices at several media companies, including us, we and other media companies entered into consent decrees pursuant to which we have adopted certain policies and procedures regarding our relationships with record labels and artists concerning the broadcast of music on our stations. We admitted no violations of any FCC rules in connection with the investigation, and the FCC found none. We have also entered into a consent judgment terminating a lawsuit brought by the New York Attorney General, in which we agreed to adopt a number of business reforms and practices in the future and to make a payment to a non-profit organization to support music education and appreciation. We admitted no liability in this action, and the court found none. The FCC also has under consideration rule-making proceedings concerning sponsorship identification issues, such as product placement. We cannot determine if any new regulations will ultimately be adopted, and if adopted, what effect such regulations may have on our operations. 5 Table of Contents The FCC has rules prohibiting employment discrimination by broadcast stations on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin and gender. These rules require broadcasters generally to: (i) refrain from discrimination in hiring and promotion; (ii) widely disseminate information about all full-time job openings to all segments of the community to ensure that all qualified applicants have sufficient opportunity to apply for the job; (iii) send job vacancy announcements to recruitment organizations and others in the community indicating an interest in all or some vacancies at the station; and (iv) implement a number of specific recruitment outreach efforts, such as job fairs, internship programs, and interaction with educational and community groups from among a menu of approaches itemized by the FCC. The applicability of these policies to part-time employment opportunities is the subject of a pending further rule-making proceeding. In addition, the FCC bars discrimination with regard to race or gender in station transactions and has other rules designed to enhance the diversification of station ownership. The FCC has rules, which concern the manner in which on-air contests conducted by a station are announced and conducted, requiring in general that the material rules and terms of the contest be broadcast periodically and that the contest be conducted substantially as announced. The FCC is investigating a contest conducted by one of our stations in Sacramento after which one of the participants died (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for further discussion). We are cooperating in this investigation. Following a thorough investigation, the County prosecutor declined to file criminal charges and concluded that the station did not violate any criminal laws; a civil lawsuit is pending. The FCC has adopted procedures that in general require the auction of broadcast spectrum in circumstances when two or more parties have applications for new radio facilities or for applications proposing major changes that are mutually exclusive. Such procedures may limit our efforts to build new stations, or to modify or expand the broadcast signals of our existing stations. Proposed And Recent Changes. Congress, the FCC and other federal agencies may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could: (1) affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership and profitability of our radio stations; (2) result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenues for our radio stations; and (3) affect our ability to acquire additional radio stations or to finance those acquisitions. We cannot predict what other matters may be proposed or considered by the FCC or Congress, and we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of any such restrictions or limitations may have on our operations. Federal Antitrust Laws. The federal agencies responsible for enforcing the federal antitrust laws, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, may investigate certain acquisitions. For an acquisition meeting certain size thresholds, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires the parties to file Notification and Report Forms with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice and to observe specified waiting period requirements before consummating the acquisition. Employees As of February 15, 2009, we had a staff of approximately 1600 full-time employees and 700 part-time employees. With respect to certain of our stations in our Kansas City and San Francisco markets, we are a party to collective bargaining agreements with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists. Approximately 16 employees are represented by these collective bargaining agreements. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Corporate Governance Code Of Business Conduct And Ethics. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to each of our employees including our principal executive officer and senior members of our finance department. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics can be found on the Governance page of our website located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics upon any shareholder request. Board Committee Charters. Each of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee has a committee charter as required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. These committee charters can be found on the Corporate Governance page of our website located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of any one or more of such charters upon any shareholder request. Corporate Governance Guidelines. New York Stock Exchange rules require our Board of Directors to establish certain Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines can be found on the Corporate Governance page of our website 6 Table of Contents located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines upon any shareholder request. New York Stock Exchange CEO Certification. On May 20, 2008, our Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the “CEO Certification” required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. Environmental Compliance As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. Seasonality Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the radio broadcasting industry and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures. Our revenues are typically lowest in the first calendar quarter. Internet Address And Internet Access To Periodic And Current Reports You can find more information about us at our Internet website located at www.entercom.com. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports are available free of charge through our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). We will also provide a copy of our annual report on Form 10-K upon any written request by a shareholder. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many statements contained in this report are forward-looking in nature (see Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the beginning of this Form 10-K). These statements are based on current plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results could differ materially as we cannot guarantee that we will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ are the following: The Global Economic Crisis Has Affected Our Business And We Cannot Predict Its Future Impact. Our revenues continue to be impacted by economic trends that have caused a general downturn in the advertising sector. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing unprecedented volatility and disruption. The markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for many companies, including us. If economic trends continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience a further adverse effect, which may be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to access capital. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The Covenants In Our Senior Secured Credit Facility And Senior Subordinated Notes Restrict Our Operational Flexibility. Our senior secured credit facility (the “Bank Facility”) and our Senior Subordinated Notes (“Notes”) contain covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, swap or sell assets, or merge or consolidate with another company. We have pledged substantially all of the stock or equity interests of our subsidiaries to secure the debt under our Bank Facility. If the amounts outstanding under the Bank Facility or the Notes were accelerated due to an event of default, the lenders under our Bank Facility could proceed against the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Bank Facility and our Notes also require us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that we will meet those ratios. The current economic crisis has reduced demand for advertising in general, including advertising on our 7 Table of Contents radio stations. If our revenues were to be significantly less than planned due to difficult market conditions or for other reasons, our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our credit agreements would become increasingly difficult without remedial measures. Such remedial measures would include management’s plans to further reduce operating costs and opportunistically repurchase Senior Subordinated Notes at a discount. The Bank Facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants and leverage ratios which are defined terms within the agreement, including: (1) Total Debt to Operating Cash Flow of 6 times; and (2) Operating Cash Flow to Interest Expense of 2 times. If our remedial measures were not successful in maintaining covenant compliance, then we would negotiate with our lenders for relief, which relief could result in higher interest expense. Failure to comply with our financial covenants or other terms of our credit agreements and failure to negotiate relief from our lenders could result in the acceleration of the maturity of all outstanding debt. Under these circumstances, the acceleration of our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business. We Have Substantial Indebtedness Which Could Have Important Consequences To You. We have outstanding indebtedness of $835.2 million (including a $1.5 million letter of credit) as of December 31, 2008 that is substantial in amount and could have an impact on us. For example, these obligations could: · increase our vulnerability in an economic downturn, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; · impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes; and · limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. As of December 31, 2008, $298.5 million was the maximum amount available under our current $1,050 million Bank Facility that matures on June 30, 2012. The amount available for borrowing is determined by our financial covenants, which are impacted by many factors, including but not limited to changes in our operating performance, acquisitions, dispositions and debt retirement. Assuming the use of the borrowed proceeds has no effect on operating cash flow (as determined under our Bank Facility), as of December 31, 2008, $122.8 million of $298.5 million is available for borrowing. Any additional borrowings, which are subject to compliance at the time of each loan, would further increase the amount of our indebtedness and the associated risks. We Have Incurred Losses Over The Past Two Years And We May Incur Future Losses. We have reported net losses in our consolidated statement of operations over the past two years as a result of recording non-cash write-downs of our broadcasting licenses and goodwill. In 2008, we recorded impairments to our broadcasting licenses and goodwill of $835.7 million (excluding impairments recorded during the first quarter of 2008 to assets held for sale). As of December 31, 2008, our broadcasting licenses and goodwill comprise 81.6% of our total assets. If events occur or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of the broadcasting licenses and goodwill below the amount reflected on the balance sheet, we may be required to recognize impairment charges, which may be material, in future periods. We Face Many Unpredictable Business Risks, Both General And Specific To The Radio Broadcasting Industry, Which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Future Operations. Our future operations are subject to many business risks, including those risks that specifically influence the radio broadcasting industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business including: · economic conditions, both generally and relative to the radio broadcasting industry; · shifts in population, demographics or audience tastes; · the level of competition for advertising revenues with other radio stations and other advertising supported media; · technological changes and innovations; 8 Table of Contents · new laws and regulations; · the imposition by law or regulation of new or increased fees on radio broadcasting and related activities; and · changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies, including the FCC, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Given the inherent unpredictability of these variables, we cannot with any degree of certainty predict what effect, if any, these variables will have on our future operations. Generally, advertising tends to decline during economic recession or downturn. Consequently, our advertising revenue is likely to be adversely affected by a recession or downturn in the United States economy, the economy of an individual geographic market in which we own or operate radio stations, or other events or circumstances that adversely affect advertising activity. The continuing market and capital crisis is adversely impacting overall demand for advertising, which is negatively impacting our revenues. Our Radio Stations May Be Adversely Affected By Competition For Advertising Revenues. Our radio broadcasting stations are in a highly competitive business. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media, such as newspapers and magazines, Internet, broadcast and cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. While we already compete in some of our markets with other stations with similar programming formats, if another existing or new radio station in a market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to one of our stations or if an existing competitor were to strengthen its operations, our stations could suffer a reduction in ratings and/or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses. We cannot be assured that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues. We Must Respond To The Increased Competition For Audio Distribution And The Rapid Changes In Technology, Services And Standards That Characterize Our Industry In Order To Remain Competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. These technologies and services, some of which are commercial free, include the following: · personal digital audio devices (e.g., iPods®, mp3® players, audio via WiFi, mobile phones,, WiMAX and the Internet); · satellite delivered digital audio radio services; · HD Radio®, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and · low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Dependent On Federally Issued Licenses To Operate Our Radio Stations And Are Subject To Extensive Federal Regulation. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act (see, for example, the discussion of FCC regulations contained in Part I, Item 1, “Business,” of this Form 10-K). We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio stations. Licenses are normally granted for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot be assured that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications. A number of our applications to renew our station licenses have been objected to by third parties and remain pending before the FCC. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us. 9 Table of Contents We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some radio stations. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, these FCC regulations and others may change over time, and we cannot be assured that changes would not have a material adverse effect on us. The FCC has a pending investigation into a contest at one of our stations where a contestant died after participating in the contest. We are currently the subject of several other investigations by the FCC. The FCC Has Engaged In Vigorous Enforcement Of Its Indecency Rules Against The Broadcast Industry, Which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. In the last several years, the FCC has enhanced its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency and has threatened on more than one occasion to initiate license revocation proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a “serious” indecency violation. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming, and these penalties may potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. Several of our stations are currently subject to indecency-related inquiries and/or proposed fines at the FCC’s Enforcement Bureau as well as objections to our license renewals based on such inquiries and proposed fines, and we may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of obscene, indecent or profane material. To the extent that these inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected. Because Of Our Holding Company Structure, We Depend On Our Subsidiaries For Cash Flow, And Our Access To This Cash Flow Is Restricted. We operate as a holding company. All of our radio stations are currently owned and operated by our subsidiaries. Entercom Radio, LLC, our 100% owned finance subsidiary, is the borrower under our Bank Facility and our Senior Subordinated Debt. All of our station-operating subsidiaries and FCC license subsidiaries are subsidiaries of Entercom Radio, LLC. Further, we guaranteed Entercom Radio, LLC’s obligations under the Bank Facility on a senior secured basis and under the Senior Subordinated Notes on an unsecured basis, junior to our Bank Facility. As a holding company, our only source of cash to pay our obligations, including corporate overhead and other accounts payable, are distributions from our subsidiaries. We currently expect that the net earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing their debt obligations, before distributions are made to us. Even if our subsidiaries elect to make distributions to us, we cannot be assured that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including the dividend covenants contained in our Bank Facility and Senior Subordinated Notes, would permit such dividends or distributions. Our Common Stock May Cease To Be Listed On Its Current Stock Exchange. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE under the symbol “ETM”. In the future, we may not be able to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, which require, among other things, (i) minimum closing price of our common stock; (ii) a minimum market capitalization; and (iii) a minimum stockholders’ equity and market capitalization. If we are unable to satisfy the NYSE criteria for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Management would then seek to have our common stock trade on another exchange or the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board. A delisting of our common stock from the NYSE could negatively impact us by, among other things, reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. (See Management’s Discussion and Analysis for a discussion of the NYSE continued listing requirements.) 10 Table of Contents Our Chairman Of The Board And Our President And Chief Executive Officer Effectively Control Our Company, And Members Of Their Immediate Family Also Own A Substantial Equity Interest In Us. Their Interests May Conflict With Your Interest. As of February 17, 2009, Joseph M. Field, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 1,906,943 shares of our Class A common stock and 6,558,282 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 64.9% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. As of February 17, 2009, David J. Field, our President and Chief Executive Officer, one of our directors and the son of Joseph M. Field, beneficially owned 2,534,464 shares of our Class A common stock and 749,250 shares of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 10.1% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. Collectively, Joseph M. Field and David J. Field and other members of the Field family beneficially own all of our outstanding Class B common stock. Other members of the Field family and Trusts for their benefit also own shares of Class A common stock. Shares of Class B common stock are transferable only to Joseph M. Field, David J. Field, certain of their family members or trusts for any of their benefit. Upon any other transfer, shares of our Class B common stock automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes only when Joseph M. Field or David J. Field vote them, subject to certain exceptions when they are restricted to one vote. Joseph M. Field generally is able to control the vote on all matters submitted to the vote of shareholders and, therefore, is able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to those matters when the shares of our Class B common stock are only entitled to one vote and those matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws or applicable law, including, without limitation, the election of the two Class A directors. Without the approval of Joseph M. Field, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Future Sales By Joseph M. Field Or Members Of His Family Could Adversely Affect The Price Of Our Class A Common Stock. The price for our Class A common stock could fall substantially if Joseph M. Field or members of his family sell large amounts of shares in the public market, including any shares of our Class B common stock (as described in the above paragraph) which are automatically converted to Class A common stock when sold. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. The Difficulties Associated With Any Attempt To Gain Control Of Our Company Could Adversely Affect The Price Of Our Class A Common Stock. Joseph M. Field controls the decision as to whether a change in control will occur for our Company. There are also provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Pennsylvania law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses are required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. We Depend On Selected Market Clusters Of Radio Stations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we generated in excess of 50% of our net revenues in 6 of our 23 markets (Boston, San Francisco, Portland, Seattle, Sacramento and Kansas City). Accordingly, we may have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions that affect the economy in any of these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our Stock Price And Trading Volume Could Be Volatile. Our Class A common stock has been publicly traded since January 29, 1999. The market price of our Class A common stock and our trading volume has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of public equities. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could change, regardless of our operating performance. 11 Table of Contents The Loss Of Key Personnel Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key executives. We believe that the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Impact Of A Natural Disaster And Its Aftermath Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Markets. A natural disaster could adversely impact any of our markets. As an example, Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath impacted the operations of our six radio stations in New Orleans, Louisiana. Our Failure To Comply Under The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Cause A Loss Of Confidence In The Reliability Of Our Financial Statements. We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This effort included documenting and testing our internal controls. As of December 31, 2008, we believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 