Risk factors The risk factors set out in this document have been organized into three categories: • risks related to the gold mining industry generally; • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations; and • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Risks related to the gold mining industry generally The profitability of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, and the cash flows generated by these operations, are significantly affected by changes in the market price for gold. The market price for gold can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations are caused by numerous factors beyond AngloGold Ashanti’s control, including: • speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; • changes in the demand for gold as an investment; • changes in the demand for gold used in jewellery and for other industrial uses; • changes in the supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; • the strength of the dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; • changes in interest rates; • actual or expected gold sales by central banks and the IMF; • gold sales by gold producers in forward transactions; • global or regional political or economic events; and • costs of gold production in major gold-producing nations, such as South Africa, the United States and Australia. 13 The price of gold is often subject to sharp, short-term changes resulting from speculative activities. While the overall supply of and demand for gold can affect its market price, because of the considerable size of above-ground stocks of the metal in comparison to other commodities, these factors typically do not affect the gold price in the same manner or degree that the supply of and demand for other commodities tends to affect their market price. The following table presents the annual high, low and average afternoon fixing prices over the past 10 years, expressed in dollars, for gold per ounce on the London Bullion Market: Year High Low Average 1996 415 367 388 1997 367 283 331 1998 314 273 287 1999 340 252 278 2000 317 262 279 2001 298 253 271 2002 347 278 310 2003 417 320 364 2004 456 371 410 2005 538 412 445 Source of data: Metals Week, Reuters and London Bullion Market Association On March 8, 2006, the afternoon fixing price of gold on the London Bullion Market was $544.75 per ounce. In addition to the spot price of gold, a portion of AngloGold Ashanti’s gold sales is determined at prices in accordance with thevarious hedging contracts that it has entered into, and will continue to enter into, with various gold hedging counterparts. If revenue from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, AngloGold Ashanti may experience losses and be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its capital projects or existing operations, particularly those operations having operating costs that are flexible to such short- to medium-term curtailment or closure, or change its past dividend payment policies. In addition, it would have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on its ability to recover any losses that may be incurred during that period and on its ability to maintain adequate cash reserves. The profitability of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, and the cash flows generated by these operations, are significantly affected by the fluctuations in the price of input production factors, many of which are linked to the price of oil and steel. Fuel, power and consumables, including diesel, heavy fuel oil, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, which are used in mining operations form a relatively large part of the operating costs of any mining company. The cost of these consumables is linked, to a greater or lesser extent, to the price of oil. Furthermore, the cost of steel, which is used in the manufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, is also a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditureof a mining company. AngloGold Ashanti has estimated that for each $1 per barrel rise in the oil price, the average cash costs of all its operationsincrease by $0.30 per ounce with the cash costs of certain of its mines, which are more dependent on fuel, being more sensitive to changes in the price of oil. Fluctuations in the price of oil and steel have a significant impact upon operating cost and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects. AngloGold Ashanti has no influence over the price of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and other commodities used in its mining activities. High oil and steel prices would have an adverse effect upon the profitability of existing mining operations and the returns anticipated from new mining projects and could even render certain projects non-viable. 14 AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as the lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining equipment and metallurgical plant. Due to the significant increase in the world’s demand for commodities, the global mining industry is experiencing an increase inproduction capacity both in terms of expansions at existing, as well as the development of new, production facilities. This increase in expansion capacity has taken place, in certain instances, without a concomitant increase in the capacity for production of certain strategic spares, critical consumables and mining and processing equipment used to operate and construct mining operations, resulting in shortages of, and an increase in the lead times to deliver, these items. In particular, AngloGold Ashanti and other gold mining companies have experienced shortages in critical consumables like tires for mobile mining equipment, as well as certain critical spares for both mining equipment and processing plants including, for example, gears for the ball-mills. In addition, the company has experienced an increase in delivery times for these and other items. These shortages have also resulted in unanticipated increases in the price of certain of these and other items. Shortages of critical spares, consumable and equipment result in production delays and production shortfalls. Increases in prices result in an increase in both operating costs and the capital expenditure to maintain and develop mining operations. Whilst suppliers and equipment manufacturers may increase capacity to meet the increased demand and therefore alleviate both shortages of, and time to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables and mining and processing equipment, individually the company has limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers. Consequently, shortages and increased lead times in delivery of strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining and certain processing equipment could have an adverse impact upon AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Gold companies face many risks related to their operations (including their exploration and development activities) that may adversely affect their cash flows and overall profitability. Uncertainty and cost of mineral exploration and acquisitions Exploration activities are speculative and are often unproductive. These activities also often require substantial expenditure to:• establish the presence, and to quantify the extent and grades (metal content), of mineralized material through exploration drilling; • determine appropriate metallurgical recovery processes to extract gold from the ore; • estimate Ore Reserves; • undertake feasibility studies and to estimate the technical and economic viability of the project; and • construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. Once gold mineralization is discovered it can take several years to determine whether Ore Reserves exist. During this time the economic feasibility of production may change owing to fluctuations in factors that affect revenue, as well as cash and other operating costs. AngloGold Ashanti considers from time to time the acquisition of Ore Reserves, development properties and operating mines, either as stand-alone assets or as part of companies. Its decisions to acquire these properties have historically been based ona variety of factors including historical operating results, estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of Ore Reserves,cash and other operating costs, gold prices and projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or potential liabilitiesassociated with the property and its operations and how these may change in the future. Other than historical operating results,all of these parameters are uncertain and have an impact upon revenue, cash and other operating issues, as well as the uncertainties related to the process used to estimate Ore Reserves. In addition, there is intense competition for the acquisitionof attractive mining properties. font> As a result of these uncertainties, the exploration programs and acquisitions engaged in by AngloGold Ashanti may not result in the expansion or replacement of the current production with new Ore Reserves or operations. This could adversely affect its results of operations and its financial condition. 15 Development risksAngloGold Ashanti’s profitability depends, in part, on the actual economic returns and the actual costs of developing mines, which may differ significantly from its current estimates. The development of its mining projects may be subject to unexpected problems and delays. AngloGold Ashanti’s decision to develop a mineral property is typically based, in the case of an extension or, in the case of anew development, on the results of a feasibility study. Feasibility studies estimate the expected or anticipated project economic returns. These estimates are based on assumptions regarding: • future gold and other metal prices; • anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; • anticipated recovery rates of gold and other metals from the ore; • anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs; and • the required return on investment. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by such studies and estimates. Operating costs and capital expenditure are determined particularly by the costs of the commodity inputs, including the cost of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, tires and steel, that are consumed in mining activities. There are anumber of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of an extension to an existing mine, or in the development and construction of any new mine. In addition to those discussed above these uncertainties include: • the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; • the availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities; • the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; • the need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the timing of those permits; and • the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. The costs, timing and complexities of mine development and construction can increase because of the remote location of many mining properties. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production could occur. Finally, operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of fluctuations in the prices of commodities consumed inthe construction and operation of mining projects. Accordingly, AngloGold Ashanti’s future development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new production, or one or more of these new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or may not be profitable at all. Ore Reserve estimation risks AngloGold Ashanti undertakes annual revisions to its Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates based upon actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as gold price and exchange rates. These factors may result in reductions in its Ore Reserve estimates, which could adversely affect the life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining asset base and, as a result, have an adverse effect upon the market price of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and ADSs. Mining industry risks Gold mining is susceptible to numerous events that may have an adverse impact on a gold mining business. These events include, but are not limited to: • environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; • industrial accidents; • underground fires; • labor disputes; • encountering unexpected geological formations; • unanticipated ground and water conditions; • unanticipated increases in gold lock-up and inventory levels a the company’s heap-leach operations; • fall-of-ground accidents in underground operations; • failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls; 16 • legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions; • seismic activity; and • other natural phenomena, such as floods or inclement weather conditions. Seismic activity is of particular concern to the gold mining industry in South Africa, in part because of the large percentage of deep-level gold mines. To understand and manage this risk, AngloGold Ashanti uses sophisticated seismic and rock mechanics technologies. Despite the implementation of this technology and modifications to mine layouts and support technology with a view to minimizing the incidence, and impact, of seismic activity, seismic events have in the past, and may inthe future, cause employee injury and death as well as substantial damage to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, both within South Africa and elsewhere where seismic activity may be a factor. The occurrence of one or more of these events may result in the death of, or personal injury to, miners, the loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, delays and unanticipated fluctuations in production, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities. As a result, these events may have a materialadverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operational results and its financial condition. Gold mining companies are increasingly required to consider and ensure the sustainable development of, and provide benefits to, the communities and countries in which they operate. As a consequence of public concern about the perceived ill effects of economic globalization, business generally, and in particular large multinational corporations such as AngloGold Ashanti, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other “stakeholders” – including employees, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate – benefit, and will continue to benefit from these commercial activities, which are also expected to minimize or eliminate any damage to the interests of those stakeholders. These pressures tend to be applied most strongly against companies whose activities are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of such pressures, especially if not effectively managed, include reputational damage, legal suits and social spending obligations. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations andits financial condition. Gold mining operations are subject to extensive health and safety laws and regulations. Gold mining operations are subject to a variety of industry-specific health and safety laws and regulations depending upon the jurisdiction in which they are located. These laws and regulations are formulated to improve and to protect the safety and health of employees. If these laws and regulations were to change and, if as a result, material additional expenditure were required to comply with such new laws and regulations, it could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Gold mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Gold mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which they operate. These regulations establish limits and conditions on gold producers’ ability to conduct their operations. The cost of AngloGold Ashanti’s compliance with environmental laws and regulations has been significant and is expected to continue to be significant. Gold mining companies are required to close their operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in accordance with environmental laws and regulations. Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs for gold mining operationsare significant and based principally on current legal and regulatory requirements that may change materially. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they are known, probable and can be reasonably estimated. Increasingly, regulators are seeking security in the form of cash collateral or bank guarantees in respect of environmental obligations, which could have an adverseeffect on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. 17 Environmental laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. If AngloGold Ashanti’s environmental compliance obligations were to change as a result of changes in the laws and regulations or in certain assumptions it makes to estimate liabilities, or if unanticipated conditions were to arise in its operations, its expenses and provisions would increase to reflect these changes. If material, these expenses and provisions could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations AngloGold Ashanti faces many risks related to its operations that may affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti uses hedging instruments to protect against low gold prices and exchange rate movements, which may prevent it from realizing all potential gains resulting from subsequent gold price increases in the future. AngloGold Ashanti currently uses hedging instruments to fix the selling price of a portion of its respective anticipated gold production and to protect revenues against unfavorable gold price and exchange rate movements. While the use of these instruments may protect against a drop in gold prices and exchange rate movements, it will do so for only a limited period of time and only to the extent that the hedge remains in place. The use of these instruments may also prevent AngloGold Ashanti from realizing the positive impact on income from any subsequent favorable increase in the price of gold on the portion of production covered by the hedge and of any subsequent favorable exchange rate movements. A significant number of AngloGold Ashanti’s hedge contracts are not fair valued on the financial statements as they fall under the normal purchase sales exemption. Should AngloGold Ashanti fail to deliver gold into those contracts in accordance with their terms, then it would need to account for the fair value of all of its hedge contracts on the financial statements, which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s reported financial condition. Foreign exchange fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and financial condition. Gold is principally a dollar-priced commodity, and most of AngloGold Ashanti’s revenues are realized in or linked to dollars while production costs are largely incurred in the applicable local currency where the relevant operation is located. The weakening of the dollar, without a corresponding increase in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies, results inlower revenues and higher production costs in dollar terms. Conversely, the strengthening of the dollar, without a corresponding decrease in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies yields significantly higher revenues and lower production costs in dollar terms. If material, these exchange rate movements may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations. Since June 2002, the weakening of the dollar against the South African rand, the Brazilian real, the Argentinean peso and the Australian dollar has had a negative impact upon AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability. Conversely, in certain prior years, the devaluation of these local currencies against the dollar has had a significant positive effect on the profitability of AngloGoldAshanti’s operations. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, AngloGold Ashanti derived approximately 67 percent, 74 percent and 91 percent, respectively, of its revenues from these countries and approximately 63 percent, 72 percent and 90 percent, respectively, of production costs in these local currencies. In 2005, the weakening of the dollar against these local currencies accounted for nearly $4 per ounce or 24 percent of the totalincrease in total cash costs from 2004. In 2004, the weakening of the dollar against these local currencies accounted for nearly$28 per ounce or 52 percent of the total increase in total cash costs from 2003. These impacts were partially offset by the increase in the dollar price of gold, which increase was to some extent a function of dollar weakness. In addition, production costs in South African rand, Brazilian real, Argentinean peso and Australian dollar terms were only modestly offset by the effectof exchange rate movements on the price of imports denominated in dollars, as imported products comprise a small proportion of production costs in each of these countries. 18 To a lesser extent, and mainly as a result of AngloGold Ashanti’s hedging instruments, a small proportion of its revenues are denominated in South African rands and Australian dollars, which may partially offset the effect of the dollar’s strength or weakness on AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability. In addition, due to its global operations and local foreign exchange regulations, some of AngloGold Ashanti’s funds are held inlocal currencies, such as the South African rand and Australian dollar. The dollar value of these currencies may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. If material, exchange rate movements may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s level of indebtedness may adversely affect its business. As of December 31, 2005, AngloGold Ashanti had gross borrowings of around $1,9 billion. This level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s flexibility to do business. Under the terms of AngloGold Ashanti’s borrowing facilities from its banks it is obliged to meet certain financial and other covenants. AngloGold Ashanti expects to meet these covenants and to be able to pay principal and interest on its debt by utilizing the cash flows from operations and, therefore, its ability to do so will depend upon its future financial performance which will be affected by its operating performance as well asby financial and other factors, certain of which are beyond its control. AngloGold Ashanti may be required to utilize a large portion of its cash flow to pay the principal and interest on its debt which will reduce the amount of funds available to financeexisting operations, the development of new organic growth opportunities and further acquisitions. AngloGold Ashanti’s level ofindebtedness may make it vulnerable to economic cycle downturns, which are beyond its control, because during such downturns, it cannot be certain that its future cash flows will be sufficient to allow it to pay principal and interest on its debt and also to meet its other obligations. Should the cash flow from operations be insufficient, it could breach its financial and othercovenants and may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, utilize existing cash balances, issue additional equity or sell assets. AngloGold Ashanti cannot be sure that it will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations. Most of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are located in countries that have experienced high rates of inflation during certain periods. Because it is unable to control the market price at which it sells the gold it produces (except to the extent that it entersinto forward sales and other derivative contracts), it is possible that significantly higher future inflation in the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates may result in an increase in future operational costs in local currencies, without a concurrent devaluation of the local currency of operations against the dollar or an increase in the dollar price of gold. This could have amaterial adverse effect upon AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. While none of AngloGold Ashanti’s specific operations is currently materially adversely affected by inflation, significantly higher and sustained inflation in the future, with a consequent increase in operational costs, could result in operations being discontinued or reduced or rationalized at higher cost mines. AngloGold Ashanti’s new order mining rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the company breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights. AngloGold Ashanti’s rights to own and exploit mineral reserves and deposits are governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the mineral properties are located. Currently, a significant portion of its mineral reserves and deposits are located in South Africa. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) vests custodianship of South Africa’s mineral rights in the State. The State issues prospecting rights or mining rights to applicants. Prospecting, mining and mineral rights formerly regulated under the Minerals Act 50 of 1991 and common law are now known as old order mining rights and the transitional arrangements provided in Schedule II to the MPRDA give holders of such old order mining rights the opportunity to convert their old order mining rights into new order mining rights within specified time frames. 19 The Department of Minerals and Energy has published, pursuant to the MPRDA, the Broad- Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry (the Charter). The objectives of the Charter are to: • promote equitable access to the nation’s Mineral Resources to all the people of South Africa; • substantially and meaningfully expand opportunities for historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) – that is, any person, category of persons or community, disadvantaged by unfair discrimination before the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa of 1993 came into operation, including women – to enter the mining and minerals industry and to benefit from the exploitation of the nation’s Mineral Resources; • utilize the existing skills base for the empowerment of HDSAs; • expand the skills base of HDSAs in order to serve the community; • promote employment and advance the social and economic welfare of mining communities and the major labor sending areas; and • promote beneficiation of South Africa’s mineral commodities. The Charter, compliance with which is measured using a designated Scorecard, requires that every mining company achieve 15 percent ownership by HDSAs of its South African mining assets by May 1, 2009, and 26 percent ownership by May 1, 2014. The Scorecard allows for a portion of “offset” against these HDSA equity participation requirements insofar as companies have facilitated downstream, value-adding activities in respect of the products they mine. AngloGold Ashanti carries out such downstream activities and believes these will be recognized in terms of a framework currently being devised by the South African government. AngloGold Ashanti has completed a number of asset sales to companies owned by HDSAs in the past seven years. It estimates that these sales transferred 20 percent of its attributable production in South Africa to HDSAs. In addition, AngloGoldAshanti is continuing to evaluate alternative ways in which to further achieve the objectives of the Charter. On June 8, 2005, AngloGold Ashanti announced that it was considering establishing an Employee Share Ownership Program (ESOP) with a value equivalent to approximately 6 percent of its South African assets, consistent with the company’s stated strategic intentionto develop means of promoting broad based equity participation in the company by HDSAs. The scope and terms of the program remain under consideration and, once finalized, an announcement will be made and, if appropriate, the terms will be put to shareholders for their approval. It is anticipated that an ESOP may be established during 2006. AngloGold Ashanti believes that it has made significant progress towards meeting the requirements of the Charter and the Scorecard in terms of human resource development, employment equity, mine community and rural development, housing and living conditions, procurement and beneficiation, including the implementation of programs to help achieve the requirement of having 40 percent of HDSAs in management roles by 2010. AngloGold Ashanti may incur expenses in giving further effect to the Charter and the Scorecard and, if established, the implementation of an ESOP may have an adverse impact on the company’s results of operations. AngloGold Ashanti was informed on August 1, 2005 by the Director General of Minerals and Energy that its applications to convert its old order mining rights to new order mining rights for its West Wits and Vaal River operations, as well as its applications for new mining rights to extend its mining areas at its TauTona and Kopanang mines had been successful. These applications relate to all of its existing operations in South Africa. AngloGold Ashanti is in the process of reviewing certain draft notarial rights agreements, which it recently received from the Department of Minerals and Energy relating to the various rights,and will lodge these for registration with the Mining Titles Registration Office in due course. The notarial agreement for theWest Wits operations has subsequently been executed and was lodged for registration on February 9, 2006. AngloGold Ashanti submitted two applications to the D epartment of Minerals and Energy for the conversion of two unused old order prospecting rights to new order prospecting rights, one of which it has subsequently withdrawn. The Department of Minerals and Energy is considering the remaining application. Even where new order mining rights are obtained under the MPRDA, these rights may not be equivalent to the old order mining rights. The duration of the new rights will no longer be perpetual as was the case under old order mining rights but rather willbe granted for a maximum period of 30 years, with renewals of up to 30 years each and, in the case of prospecting rights, a maximum period of five years with one renewal of up to three years. The MPRDA provides for a retention period after prospecting of up to three years with one renewal of up to two years, subject to certain conditions, such as non-concentration of resources, fair competition and non-exclusion of others. In addition, the new order rights will only be transferable subject to the approval of the Minister of Minerals and Energy. 20 The new order mining rights can be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Minerals and Energy if, upon notice of a breach from the Minister, the entity breaching its obligations in terms of the guidelines issued for converted mining rights fails to remedy such breach. The MPRDA also imposes additional responsibilities on mining companies relating to environmental management and to environmental damage, degradation or pollution resulting from their prospecting or mining activities. AngloGold Ashanti has a policy of evaluating, minimizing and addressing the environmental consequences of its activities and, consistent with this policy and the MPRDA, conduct an annual review of the environmental costs and liabilities associated with the group’s South African operations in light of the new, as well as existing, environmental requirements. The proposed introduction of South African State royalties, as well as proposed changes to the fiscal regime for mining companies in South Africa, where a significant portion of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral reserves and operations are located, could have an adverse effect on its results of operations and its financial condition. The South African government has announced that it is considering new legislation, whereby the new order rights will be subject to a State royalty. The extent and basis of that royalty are unknown at present. The draft Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Bill was released in March 2003 for comments and proposed a royalty payment of 3 percent of gross revenue per year, payable quarterly, in the case of gold. The draft provided that the royalty payments would have commenced upon the conversion and granting of a new mining right. AngloGold Ashanti and other members of the South African mining community have submitted comments on the draft bill to the relevant authorities. These comments included recommendations for a profit-based, rather than a revenue-based, royalty and in order not to delay the conversion of mineral rights from old into new order rights, it was recommended that the proposed royalty should only become payable from May 1, 2009, which date is the final date for conversion of the old order into new order mining rights in terms of the MPRDA. In addition, a reduction in the royalty rate from that proposed in the draft Mineraland Petroleum Royalty Bill has been proposed. On February 18, 2004, in the Budget Speech for the 2004 fiscal year, the South African Minister of Finance proposed several refinements to the draft Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Bill. These included a delay in the introduction of the royalty to May 1, 2009, and confirmation of the South African government’s preference for a revenue-based royalty. It was further indicated that the royalty regime would take cognizance of the mining sector’s diverse production and profitability dynamics with differential rates to apply to marginal mining operations. The introduction of the proposed royalty would have an adverse impact upon AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability, as currently no royalty is payable to the State. However, the Minister of Finance announced also that due to the new regulatory system for the mining rights under the MPRDA and accompanying royalty dispensation under the draft Mineral and Petroleum Royalty Bill, it had become imperative to reassess the current fiscal regime as applicable to the mining and petroleum industries in South Africa, including tax, depreciation, rate differentiation for mining sectors, allowable deductions and exemptions from secondarytax on companies in terms of South Africa’s income tax laws. Also due for review is the gold mining tax formula, which providesincome tax exemption and relief from secondary tax on companies for gold mines, despite the existence of profit. The impact of these proposed reviews i s unknown at this stage, but they may have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti may need to improve its internal control over financial reporting and its independent auditors may not be able to attest to their effectiveness, which could have a significant adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations, its reputation and its financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti is evaluating its internal control over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and itsindependent auditors to attest to, its internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder (collectively Section 404). AngloGold Ashanti is currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required, and any necessary remediation, in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. The management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 will initially apply to AngloGold Ashanti for its annual report on Form 20-Ffor the year ended December 31, 2006. In the course of its ongoing Section 404 evaluation, AngloGold Ashanti has identified areas of internal control over financial r eporting that need improvement and it has designed enhanced processes and controls, and plans to design additional enhanced processes and controls, as necessary, to address these and any other issues that might be identified in the future through this review. 21 Because AngloGold Ashanti is still in the evaluation process, it may identify other conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future, which could impact its ability to comply with Section 404 in a timely manner.If AngloGold Ashanti is not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, its independent auditors may not be able to attest to the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting and it may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of AngloGold Ashanti’s financial statements. Inaddition, AngloGold Ashanti may be required to incur additional costs in improving its internal control system. Any such actioncould negatively af fect AngloGold Ashanti’s results and have an adverse effect on its results of operations, its reputation and its financial condition. Certain factors may affect AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to support the carrying value of its property, plants and equipment, acquired properties, investments and goodwill on its balance sheet. AngloGold Ashanti reviews and tests the carrying value of its assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. AngloGold Ashanti group’s assets at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of cash flows of other assets and liabilities. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, AngloGold Ashanti prepares estimates of expected future cash flows for each group of assets. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. They are significantly affected by reserve and productionestimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure. If any of these uncertainties occur either alone or in combination, it could require management to recognize an impairment, which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. If the development of the deep-level ore deposits at Obuasi mine is not economically feasible, there may be a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. A key aspect of the business combination of AngloGold and Ashanti was the development of the deep-level extension of the existing orebody at the Obuasi mine, otherwise referred to as Obuasi Deeps. This development could potentially extend the life of this mine to well beyond 2030. In furtherance of this goal, AngloGold Ashanti has commenced exploration at Obuasi Deeps and intends in due course, based upon the information as it becomes available, to undertake feasibility studies to estimate theextent of the Ore Reserves, operating costs, capital expenditure and economic returns and consequently, the viability of miningObuasi Deeps. If as a result of this further exploration and following the completion of these feasibility studies, AngloGold Ashanti determines that the development of the Obuasi Deeps is not economically feasible, such determination may have a material adverse effect on its results of ope rations and financial condition in the long term. The funding of the development ofObuasi Deeps will proceed only if AngloGold Ashanti continues to determine the development to be economically feasible. AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral reserves and deposits and mining operations are located in countries that face political, economic and security risks. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral deposits and mining and exploration operations are located in countries that have experienced political instability and economic uncertainty. In all of the countries where AngloGold Ashanti operates, the formulation or implementation of government policies may be unpredictable on certain issues including regulations which impact on its operations and changes in laws relating to issues such as mineral rights and asset ownership, taxation, royalties,import and export duties, currency transfers, restrictions on foreign currency holdings and repatriation of earnings. Any existing and new mining and exploration operations and projects AngloGold Ashanti carries out in these countries are, and will be subject to, various national and local laws, policies and regulations governing the ownership, prospecting, developmentand mining of mineral reserves, taxation and royalties, exchange controls, import and export duties and restrictions, investmentapprovals, employee and social/community relations and other matters. If, in one or more of these countries, AngloGold Ashanti was not able to obtain or maintain necessary permits, authorizations or agreements to implement planned projects or continue its operations under conditions or within time frames that make such plans and operations economic, or if legal, ownership, fiscal (including all royalties and duties), exchange control, employment, environmental and social laws and regimes, or the governing political authorities ch ange materially which could result in changes to such laws and regimes, its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. 22 In a number of countries, particularly in Africa, AngloGold Ashanti is due refunds of input tax which remain outstanding for periods longer than those provided for in the respective statutes. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti has unresolved tax disputes ina number of countries, particularly in Tanzania, Mali and Brazil. If the outstanding input taxes are not received and the tax disputes are not resolved in a manner favorable to AngloGold Ashanti, it could have an adverse effect upon its results of operations and its financial condition. Certain of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti has mineral deposits or mining or exploration operations, including the Democratic Republic of Congo and Colombia, have in the past experienced and in certain cases continue to experience, a difficult security environment as well as political instability. In particular, various illegal groups active in regions in which the company is present may pose a credible threat of terrorism, extortion and kidnapping, which could have an adverse effect on the company’s operations in such regions. In the event that continued operations in these countries compromise AngloGold Ashanti’s security or business principles, it may withdraw from these countries on a temporary or permanent basis, in which in turn, could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and its financial condition. Labor disruptions in South Africa and other countries could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and financial condition. As at December 31, 2005, approximately 72 percent (2004: 69 percent) of AngloGold Ashanti’s workforce excluding contractors or 66 percent of total workforce was located in South Africa. Approximately 95 percent of the workforce on its SouthAfrican operations is unionized, with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) representing the majority of unionized workers. AngloGold Ashanti’s employees in some South American countries are also highly unionized. Trade unions have a significant impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s labor relations climate, as well as on social and political reforms, most notably in South Africa.In 1987, the NUM embarked on a three-week strike in support of a wage demand. Since then labor relations between AngloGold Ashanti and the industry have stabilized. This is in part due to the presence of the representative unions and the part they play in ensuring orderly collectiv e bargaining. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti has instituted a number of processes at both mine and at company level, whereby management and unions interact regularly and address areas of difference as they arise. It has become established practice to negotiate wages and conditions of employment with the unions every two years through the Chamber of Mines of South Africa. A two-year wage agreement was signed with the NUM in August 2005, following negotiations between the NUM, UASA (on behalf of some clerical and junior management staff) and Solidarity (on behalf of a small number of miners) and the Chamber of Mines. Agreement was only reached after a four-day strike which affected all of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations in South Africa. In contrast with previous strikes, this stoppage was peaceful and orderly and it is estimated that lost production, as a result of the strike, was made up in a reasonably short time period. The Ashanti operations acquired in the business combination, and their mining contractors also rely to a large degree on a unionized workforce. In 1999, Ashanti experienced strikes at the Obuasi mine in Ghana. There is a risk that strikes or other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any one of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. It is uncertain whether labor disruptions will be used to advocate labor, political or social goals in the future. Should any labor disruptions occur, if material, they could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and itsfinancial condition. The use of mining contractors at certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining activities. Mining contractors are used at certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s mines, including Sadiola, Morila and Yatela in Mali, Siguiri in Guinea, Iduapriem in Ghana and Sunrise Dam in Australia, to mine and deliver ore to processing plants. Consequently, at these mines, AngloGold Ashanti does not own all of the mining equipment and may face disruption of operations and incur costs and liabilities in the event that any of the mining contractors at these mines has financial difficulties, or should there be a dispute in renegotiating a mining contract, or a delay in replacing an existing contractor. 23 AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies for key human resources. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies to attract and retain key executives and other employees with appropriate technical skills and managerial experience necessary to continue to operate its business. The retention of staff isparticularly challenging in South Africa, where AngloGold Ashanti is required to achieve employment equity targets of participation by HDSAs in management and other positions. AngloGold Ashanti competes with all companies in South Africa to attract and retain a small but growing pool of HDSAs with the necessary skills and experience. For further details see the riskfactor “AngloGold Ashanti’s new order mineral rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the company breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights”. There can be no assurance that AngloGold Ashanti will attract and retain skilled and experienced employees and, should it lose any of its key personnel, its business may be harmed and its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with HIV/AIDS which may adversely affect its results of operations and its financial condition. AIDS remains the major health care challenge faced by AngloGold Ashanti’s South African operations. Accurate prevalence data for AIDS is not available. The South African workforce prevalence studies indicate that the percentage of AngloGold Ashanti’s South African workforce that may be infected by HIV may be as high as 30 percent. AngloGold Ashanti is continuing to develop and implement various programs aimed at helping those who have been infected with HIV and preventing new infections. Since 2002 AngloGold Ashanti has offered a voluntary monitored anti-retroviral therapy program for employees in South Africa who are infected with HIV. This program offers a triple combination drug regimen, known as Highly Active Anti Retroviral Therapy (HAART), to wellness clinic patients that meet the medical eligibility criteria for starting treatment. FromApril 2003, AngloGold Ashanti commenced a roll-o ut of the treatment to all eligible employees desiring it. Currently approximately 3,500 employees are on the wellness program and as at February 2006, approximately 1,100 employees are receiving treatment using anti-retroviral drugs. The cost of providing rigorous outcome-focused disease management of employees with AIDS, including the provision of anti-retroviral therapy, is on average R1,140 ($175) per employee on treatment per month. It is not yet possible to develop an accurate cost estimate of the program in its entirety, given uncertainties such as drug prices and the ultimate rate of employeeparticipation. AngloGold Ashanti does not expect the cost that it will incur related to the prevention of HIV infection and thetreatment of AIDS to materially and adversely affect the results of operations. Nevertheless, it is not possible to determine withcertainty the costs that AngloGold Ashanti may incur in the future in addressing this issue, and consequently its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with malaria, particularly at its operations located in Africa, which may have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Malaria is a significant health risk at all of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations in Central, West and East Africa where the diseaseassumes epidemic proportions because of ineffective national control programs. The disease is a major cause of death in young children and pregnant women but also gives rise to fatalities and absenteeism in adult men. Consequently, if uncontrolled, the disease could have an adverse effect upon productivity and profitability levels of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations located in these regions. The treatment of occupational health diseases and the potential liabilities related to occupational health disease may have an adverse effect upon the results of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and its financial condition. The primary areas of focus in respect of occupational health within AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), occupational lung diseases (OLD) and tuberculosis (TB). AngloGold Ashanti incurs costs in providing occupational health services to its employees at various occupational health centers and it continues to implement initiatives with a view tolimiting the incidence and severity of these occupational health diseases. If the costs associated with providing such occupational health services increase, such increase could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. 24 Furthermore, the South African government, by way of a cabinet resolution in 1999, proposed a possible combination and alignment of benefits of the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act (ODMWA) that provides for compensation to miners who have OLD, TB and combinations thereof, and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA) that provides for compensation to non-miners who have OLD, as well as compensation to both miners and non-miners who suffer accidental injury in the workplace. Based on a recently proposed resolution, it is possible that these acts will be combined in the future. COIDA provides for compensation payments to workers suffering permanent disabilities from OLD, which are classified as pension liabilities if the permanent disability is above a certain threshold, or a lump sum compensation payment if the permanent disability is below a certain threshold. ODMWA only provides for a lump sum compensation payment to workers suffering from OLD. The capitalized value of a pension liability (in accordance with COIDA) is usually greater than that of a lump sum compensation payment (under ODMWA). In addition, under COIDA compensation becomes payable at a lower threshold of permanent disability than under ODMWA. It is estimated that under COIDA about two to three times as many of AngloGold Ashanti’s employees would be compensated as compared with those eligible for compensation under ODMWA. If the proposed combination of COIDA and ODMWA were to occur, this could further in crease the level of compensation claims AngloGold Ashanti could be subject to and consequently could have an adverse effect on its financial condition. The costs associated with the pumping of water inflows from closed mines adjacent to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could have an adverse effect upon its results of operations. Certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations are located adjacent to the mining operations of other mining companies. The closure of a mining operation may have an impact upon continued operations at the adjacent mine if appropriate preventative steps are not taken. In particular, this can include the ingress of underground water where pumping operations at the adjacent closed mine are suspended. Such ingress could have an adverse effect upon any one of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations as a result of property damage, disruption to operations and additional pumping costs. AngloGold Ashanti has embarked on legal action in South Africa after the owner of an adjacent mine put the company owning the adjacent mining operation into liquidation, raising questions about its and other companies’ willingness to meet their waterpumping obligations. Should this action not be successful, or in the absence of other solutions, AngloGold Ashanti may be forced to meet all or part of the costs associated with the ingress of underground water, which could have an adverse effect onits results of operations and its financial condition. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s power supplies are not always reliable and have on occasion forced it to halt or curtail activities at its mines. Power fluctuations and power cost increases may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. All of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations in Ghana are dependent for their electricity supply on hydro-electric power supplied by the Volta River Authority, or VRA, an entity controlled by the government of Ghana, although AngloGold Ashanti also has access to VRA electricity supply from a recently constructed smaller thermal plant. The VRA’s principal electricity generating facility is the Akosombo Dam and during periods of below average inflows from the Volta reservoir, electricity supplies from the Akosombo Dam may be curtailed, as occurred in 1998. In addition, this electricitysupply has been subject to voltage fluctuations, which can damage the group’s equipment. Other than short-term stand-by generators, which are not sufficient to allow AngloGold Ashanti to continue mining operations, it has no means of obtaining alternative power in the event of a supply shortage from the VRA. The VRA also obtains power from neighboring Cote d’Ivoire, which has intermittently experienced some political instability and civil unrest. These factors, including increased power demand from other users in Ghana, may cause interruptions in AngloGold Ashanti’s power supply to its operations in Ghana or result in increases in the cost of power even if they do not interrupt supply. Consequently, these factors may adversely affectAngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and its financial condition. 25 AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations in Guinea, Tanzania and Mali are dependent on power supplied by outside contractors and supplies of fuel being delivered by road. AngloGold Ashanti’s power supply has been disrupted in the past and it has suffered resulting production losses as a result of equipment failure. Recently, South Africa has started to experience power outages. Should similar events occur in future, or should fluctuations or power cost increases adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s other operations, this would have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operational results and its financial condition. The occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured or for which its insurance is inadequate may adversely affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti maintains insurance to protect only against catastrophic events which could have a significant adverse effect on its operations and profitability. This insurance is maintained in amounts that are believed to be reasonable dependingupon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, AngloGold Ashanti’s insurance does not cover all potential risks associated with its business. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti may elect not to insure certain risks, due to the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons, including an assessment that the risks are remote. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable premiums. AngloGold Ashanti has a captive insurance company, namely AGRe Insurance Company Limited, which participates at various levels in certain of the insurances maintained by AngloGold Ashanti . The occurrence of events for which it is not insured may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s cash flows and overall profitability. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Sales of large numbers of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and ADSs, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of such securities. The market price of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares or ADSs could fall if large amounts of ordinary shares or ADSs are sold in the public market, or there is the perception in the marketplace that such sales could occur. Holders of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares or ADSs may decide to sell them at any time. Sales of ordinary shares or ADSs if substantial, or the perception that sales may occur and be substantial, could exert downward pressure on the prevailing market prices for AngloGold Ashanti ordinary shares or ADSs, causing their market prices to decline. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of different currencies may reduce the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities, as well as the market value of any dividends or distributions paid by AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti has historically declared all dividends in South African rands. As a result, exchange rate movements may have affected and may continue to affect the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Ghanaian cedi and the US dollar value ofthese dividends, as well as of any other distributions paid by the relevant depositary to investors that hold AngloGold Ashanti’ssecurities. This may reduce the value of these securities to investors. At the general meeting of AngloGold Ashanti’s shareholders held on December 5, 2002, a majority of the group’s shareholders passed a special resolution adopting a new Memorandum and Articles of Association, which, among other things, allows for dividends and distributions to be declared in any currency at the discretion of AngloGold Ashanti’s board of directors, or its shareholders at a general meeting. If and to the extent that AngloGol d Ashanti declares dividends and distributions in dollars, exchange rate movements will not affect the dollar value of any dividends or distributions. Nevertheless, the value of any dividend or distribution in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis or South African rands will continue to be affected. If and to the extent that dividends and distributions are declared in South African rands, exchange rate movements will continue to affect the Australian dollar, British pound, Ghanaian cedi and US dollar value of these dividends and distributions. Furthermore, the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities as expressed in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis, US dollars and South African rands will continueto fluctuate. 26 