RISK FACTORS The following sections describe many of the risk factors that could affect AngloGold Ashanti. There however may be additional risks unknown to AngloGold Ashanti and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial that could turn out to be material. These risks, either individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the group's business and financial results. The risk factors highlight the group's exposure to risk without explaining how these exposures are managed and mitigated or how some of the risks are also potential opportunities. The risk factors set out in this document have been organized into three categories: • risks related to the gold mining industry generally; • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations; and • risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs). Risks related to the gold mining industry generally Global economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of AngloGold Ashanti's operations. AngloGold Ashanti's operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. The current turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in major financial institutions consolidating or going out of business, the tightening of credit markets, significantly lower liquidity in most financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty regarding corporate earnings. 16 These disruptions in the financial markets and the global economic downturn may have follow-on effects on AngloGold Ashanti's business. For example: • The insolvency of key suppliers could result in a supply chain break-down; • The failure of hedging and derivative counterparts and other financial institutions may negatively impact AngloGoldAshanti's operations and financial condition; • Other income and expense could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments and impairment charges may be incurred with respect to AngloGold Ashanti's investments; • Other amounts realized in the future on AngloGold Ashanti's financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them; • AngloGold Ashanti's defined benefit pension fund may not achieve expected returns on its investments, which could require AngloGold Ashanti to make substantial cash payments to fund any resulting deficits; • The absence of available credit may make it more difficult for AngloGold Ashanti to obtain, or may increase the cost of obtaining finance for AngloGold Ashanti's operations; and • A credit downgrading of companies, including AngloGold Ashanti, could adversely affect the ability of AngloGold Ashanti to raise new financing and could also impact the market value of AngloGold Ashanti securities. Uncertainty regarding current global economic conditions may also increase the volatility of the market value of the AngloGold Ashanti's securities. Commodity market price fluctuations could adversely affect the profitability of AngloGold Ashanti's operations. AngloGold Ashanti predominately sells gold as its main product, but also some silver and uranium. The market prices for these commodities fluctuate widely. These fluctuations are caused by numerous factors beyond AngloGold Ashanti's control. Causes of gold price fluctuations include the following: • speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; • changes in the demand for gold as an investment; • changes in the demand for gold used in jewellery and for other industrial uses; • changes in the supply of gold from production, disinvestment, scrap and hedging; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; • the strength of the dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; • changes in interest rates; • actual or expected gold sales by central banks and the International Monetary Fund; • gold hedging and de-hedging by gold producers; • global or regional political or economic events; and • the cost of gold production in major gold-producing nations in which AngloGold Ashanti has operations, such as South Africa, the United States and Australia. The price of gold is often subject to sharp, short-term changes resulting from speculative activities. While the overall supply of and demand for gold can affect its market price, because of the considerable size of aboveground stocks of the metal in comparison to other commodities, these factors typically do not affect the gold price in the same manner or degree that the supply of and demand for other commodities tends to affect their market price. In addition, the current significant instability in the financial markets may heighten these fluctuations. The adjacent graph presents the annual high, low and average afternoon fixing prices over the past decade, expressed in dollars, for gold per ounce on the London Bullion Market. The market price of gold has experienced significant volatility in recent months. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the gold price traded from a high of $918 per oun ce to a low of $693 per ounce. On April 29, 2009, the afternoon fixing price of gold on the London Bullion Market was $898.25 per ounce. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's ability to evaluate the feasibility of undertaking new capital projects or continuing existing operations or to make other long-term strategic decisions. 17 Source of data: Metals Week, Reuters and London Bullion Market Association In addition to the spot price of gold, a portion of AngloGold Ashanti's gold sales is determined at prices in accordance with the various hedging contracts that it has entered into, or may enter into, with various gold hedging counterparts. If revenue from gold sales falls below the cost of production for an extended period, AngloGold Ashanti may experience losses and be forced to curtail or suspend some or all of its capital projects or existing operations, particularly those operations having operating costs that are flexible to such short- to medium-term curtailment or closure, or change its dividend payment policies. In addition, it would have to assess the economic impact of low gold prices on its ability to recover any losses that may be incurred during that period and on its ability to maintain adequate cash reserves. The profitability of AngloGold Ashanti's o perations, and the cash flows generated by these operations, are significantly affected by the fluctuations in input production prices, many of which are linked to the prices of oil and steel. Fuel, energy and consumables, including diesel, heavy fuel oil, chemical reagents, explosives and tires, which are used in mining operations form a relatively large part of the operating costs of any mining company. The cost of these consumables is linked to some degree to the price of oil. The price of oil has been extremely volatile in recent months, reaching a high of $147 per barrel and a low of $44 per barrel in 2008. AngloGold Ashanti has estimated that for each $1 per barrel rise in the oil price, the average cash costs of all its operations increases by about $0.50 per ounce with the cash costs of certain of its mines, which are more dependent on fuel, being more sensitive to changes in the price of oil. Furthermore, the cost of steel, which is used in the manufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, is also a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditure of a mining company. 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 HIGH PRICE 340 317 298 347 417 456 538 725 845 1011 LOW PRICE 252 262 253 278 320 371 412 525 602 713 AVERAGE PRICE 278 279 271 310 364 410 445 604 697 872 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 GOLDP RICE (US$perounce) YEAR: GOLD PRICE MOVEMENTS 18 Fluctuations in the price of oil and steel have a significant impact upon operating cost and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects or render certain projects non-viable. AngloGold Ashanti has no influence over the price of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, steel and other commodities used in its mining activities. AngloGold Ashanti's operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as the lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining equipment and metallurgical plant. Due to the significant increase in the world's demand for commodities in recent years, the global mining industry has experienced an increase in production capacity both in terms of expansions at existing, a s well as the development of new, production facilities. There are recent indications however that this trend has now changed with a sharp decline in demand for most commodities. This increase in production capacity expansion has taken place, in certain instances, without a concomitant increase in the capacity for production of certain strategic spares, critical consumables and mining and processing equipment used to operate and construct mining operations, resulting in shortages of, and an increase in the lead times to deliver, these items. In particular, AngloGold Ashanti and other gold mining companies have experienced shortages in critical consumables like tires for mobile mining equipment, underground support, as well as certain critical spares for both mining equipment and processing plants including, for example, gears for the ball-mills. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti has experienced an increase in delivery times for these and other items. These shortag es have also resulted in unanticipated increases in the price of certain of these and other items. Shortages of critical spares, consumables and equipment result in production delays and production shortfalls. Increases in prices result in an increase in both operating costs and the capital expenditure to maintain and develop mining operations. While the recent decline in demand for most commodities may alleviate shortages of, and delivery times for strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining equipment and metallurgical plant, AngloGold Ashanti and other gold mining companies, individually, have limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers of these items. In addition, the supply chain for these items could be disrupted by global economic conditions. If AngloGold Ashanti experiences shortages, or increased lead times in delivery of strategic spares, critical consumables, heavy mining and certain processing equipment, its results of operations and its fi nancial condition could be adversely affected. Mining companies face many risks related to their operations (including their exploration and development activities) that may adversely affect their cash flows and overall profitability. Uncertainty and cost of mineral exploration and acquisitions Exploration activities are speculative and are often unproductive. These activities also often require substantial expenditure to: • establish the presence, and to quantify the extent and grades (metal content), of mineralized material through exploration drilling; • determine appropriate metallurgical recovery processes to extract gold from the ore; • estimate Ore Reserves; • undertake feasibility studies and to estimate the technical and economic viability of the project; and • construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. Once gold mineralization is discovered it can take several years to determine whether Ore Reserves exist. During this time the economic feasibility of production may change owing to fluctuations in factors that affect revenue, as well as cash and other operating costs. From time-to-time, AngloGold Ashanti evaluates the acquisition of Ore Reserves, development properties and operating mines, either as stand-alone assets or as part of companies. Its decisions to acquire these properties have historically been based on a variety of factors including historical operating results, estimates of and assumptions regarding the extent of Ore Reserves, cash and other operating costs, gold prices and projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or potential liabilities associated with the property and its operations and how these may change in the future. Other than historical operating results, all of these parameters are uncertain and have an impact upon revenue, cash an d other operating issues, as well as the uncertainties related to the process used to estimate Ore Reserves. In addition, there is intense competition for the acquisition of attractive mining properties. 19 As a result of these uncertainties, the exploration programs and acquisitions engaged in by AngloGold Ashanti may not result in the expansion or replacement of the current production with new Ore Reserves or operations. This could adversely affect its results of operations and its financial condition. Development risks AngloGold Ashanti's profitability depends, in part, on the actual economic returns and the actual costs of developing mines, which may differ significantly from its current estimates. The development of its mining projects may be subject to unexpected problems and delays. AngloGold Ashanti's decision to develop a mineral property is typically based, in the case of an extension or, in the case of a new development, on the results of a feasibility study. Feasibility studies estimate the expected or anticipated project ec onomic returns. These estimates are based on assumptions regarding: • future gold, uranium and other metal prices; • anticipated tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; • anticipated recovery rates of gold, uranium and other metals from the ore; • anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs; and • the required return on investment. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by such studies and estimates. Operating costs and capital expenditure are determined particularly by the costs of the commodity inputs, including the cost of fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, tires and steel consumed in mining activities and credits from by-products. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of an extension to an existing mine, or in the development and construction of any new mine. In addition to those discussed above these uncertainties include the: • timing and cost, which can be considerable, of the construction of mining and processing facilities; • availability and cost of skilled labor, power, water and transportation facilities; • availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; • need to obtain necessary environmental and other governmental permits and the timing of those permits; and • the availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. The costs, timing and complexities of mine development and construction can increase because of the remote location of many mining properties. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during development, construction and mine start-up. In addition, delays in the commencement of mineral production could occur. Finally, operating cost and capital expenditure estimates could fluctuate considerably as a result of changes in the prices of commodities consumed in the construction and operation of mining projects. Accordingly, AngloGold Ashanti's future development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production with new production, or one or more of these new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than currently anticipated or may not be profitable at all. Ore reserve estimation risks There are numerous uncertainties inherent in Ore Reserve estimation and assumptions that are v alid at the time of estimation but may change significantly with new information. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves and may result in the reserves being restated. Those changes could impact depreciation and amortization rates, asset-carrying values, and provisions for closedown, restoration and environmental clean-up costs. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes annual revisions to its Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates based upon actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as prevailing exchange rates. Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve estimates are not precise calculations and are dependent on the interpretation of limited information on the location, shape and continuity of the occurrence and on the available sampling results. These factors may result in reductions in its Ore Reserve estimates, which could adversely affect the life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of AngloGold Ashanti's mining asset base and, as a result, have an adverse effect upon the market price of AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares and ADSs. 20 Production or mining industry risks Gold mining is susceptible to numerous events that may have an adverse impact on a gold mining business, its ability to produce gold and meet its production targets. These events include, but are not limited to: • environmental hazards, including discharge of metals, pollutants or hazardous chemicals; • industrial accidents; • underground fires; • labor disputes; • activities of illegal or artisanal miners; • electrical power interruptions; • encountering unexpected geological formations; • unanticipated ground and water conditions; • unanticipated increases in gold lock-up and inventory levels at the company’s heap-leach operations; • fall-of-ground accidents in underground operations; • failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls; • legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions; • seismic activity; and • other natural phenomena, such as floods or inclement weather conditions. Seismic activity is of particular concern to the gold mining industry in South Africa mainly because of the extent and depth of mining. Despite the implementation of technology and modifications to mine layouts and support technology with a view to minimizing the incidence and impact of seismic activity, seismic events have and could cause the death of, or personal injury to, miners and other employees. Seismic activity may also cause the loss of mining equipment, damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, environmental damage and potential legal liabilities both within South Africa and elsewhere where seismic activity may be a factor. As a result, these events may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's operational results and its financial condition. Mining companies are increasingly required to consider and ensure the sustainable development of, and provide benefits to, the communities and countries in which they operate. As a consequence of public concern about the perceived ill effects of economic globalization, business generally and in particular large multinational corporations, such as AngloGold Ashanti, face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other stakeholders – including employees, communities surrounding operations and the countries in which they operate – benefit, and will continue to benefit from these commercial activities, which are also expected to minimize or eliminate any damage to the interests of those stakeholders. Such pressures tend to be applied most strongly against companies whose activities are perceived to have a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage, legal suits and social spending o bligations. All of these factors could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. Mining companies are subject to extensive health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. Gold mining operations are subject to a variety of industry-specific health and safety laws and regulations depending upon the jurisdiction in which they are located. These laws and regulations are formulated to improve and to protect the safety and health of employees. In South Africa in particular, recent fatalities in the mining industry have caused the government to introduce compulsory shutdown of operations to enable investigations into the cause of the accident. Should compliance with new standards require a material increase in expenditure, AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. The South African Department of Minerals and Energy has em barked on an audit strategy with the primary aim of helping mines to develop programs to improve health and safety. Audits have been conducted and a number of working places compliance stoppages have occurred. These instances have had a short-term adverse impact on gold production. Future stoppages could have a similar negative impact on production. 21 Mining companies are also subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which they operate. These regulations establish limits and conditions on producers' ability to conduct their operations. The cost of AngloGold Ashanti's compliance with environmental laws and regulations has been, and is expected to continue to be, significant. Environmental laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more restrictive. If AngloGold Ashanti's environmental compliance obligations alter as a result of changes in laws and regulations, or in certain assumptions it makes to estimate liabilities, or if unanticipated conditions arise at its operations, its expenses and provisions would increase. If material, these expenses and provisions could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's results and financial condition. Mining companies are requi red to close their operations and rehabilitate the lands that they mine in accordance with environmental laws and regulations. Estimates of the total ultimate closure and rehabilitation costs for gold mining operations are significant and based principally on current legal and regulatory requirements that may change materially. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they become known, probable and can be reasonably estimated. Increasingly, regulators are seeking security in the form of cash collateral or bank guarantees in respect of environmental obligations, which could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's financial condition. Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed by the mining processes and addressing the environmental, health and community issues are estimated and financial provision made based upon information available currently. Estimates may however be insufficient and further environmental issues may be identified at any stage. Any und erestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs would reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's asset values, earnings and cash flows. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations result in the emission of greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide and methane. Currently a number of legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions, including the Kyoto Protocol, are in various phases of discussion or implementation. Such measures could result in increased costs for AngloGold Ashanti to: (i) operate and maintain its mines, (ii) install new emission controls, and (iii) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions program. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. AngloGold Ashanti faces many risks related to its operations that may affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti's level of indebtedness could adversely affect its business. As at December 31, 2008, AngloGold Ashanti had gross borrowings of approximately $1.9 billion. This level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on its flexibility to do business. For example, AngloGold Ashanti may be required to utilize a large portion of its cash flow to pay the principal and interest on its debt which will reduce the amount of funds available to finance existing operations, the development of new organic growth opportunities and further acquisitions. In addition, under the terms of its borrowing facilities from its banks AngloGold Ashanti is obliged to meet certain financial and other covenants. AngloGold Ashanti's ability to continue to meet these covenants will depend upon its future financial performance which will be affected by its operating performance as well as by financial and other factors, certain of which are beyond its control. AngloGold Ashanti's level of indebtedness may make it vulnerable to economic cycle downturns, whic h are beyond its control, because during such downturns AngloGold Ashanti cannot be certain that its future cash flows will be sufficient to allow it to pay principal and interest on its debt and also to meet its other obligations. Should the cash flow from operations be insufficient, AngloGold Ashanti could breach its financial and other covenants and may be required to refinance all or part of its existing debt, use existing cash balances, issue additional equity or sell assets. AngloGold Ashanti cannot be sure that it will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. On November 20, 2008, AngloGold Ashanti Limited entered into a $1 billion term facility agreement with Standard Chartered Bank to refinance its convertible bond. The term facility is for an initial one-year period from the date of the first drawdown in February 2009 and the term facility is extendable, if required, at the option of AngloGold Ashanti until November 30, 2010. Amou nts drawn under the term facility currently bear an interest margin of 4.25 percent. See “Item 5.: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity” for additional information regarding the $1 billion term facility agreement. 22 AngloGold Ashanti's interest expense will increase substantially as a result of the higher interest rates and fees associated with the term facility. Based on an assumed cost of funds of 100 basis points and assuming that the term facility is fully drawn, the effective borrowing cost (including fees and applicable margin) on the term facility is estimated at approximately 10 percent per annum. The actual interest expense in 2009 will depend upon the lenders' actual costs of funds and prevailing LIBOR rates and will be partially mitigated by the application of the proceeds from the sale of AngloGold Ashanti’s interest in the Boddington project to repay a portion of the term facility. Amounts outstanding under the term facility may be prepaid at any time prior to the maturity date. AngloGold Ashanti intends to refinance the term facility through one or more of the following: the proceeds from the sale of AngloGold Ashanti's interest in the Boddington project and other asset sales, long-term debt financing and/ or the issuance of an equity-linked instrument. The nature and timing of the refinancing of the term facility will depend upon market conditions. AngloGold Ashanti cannot be sure that it will be able to refinance the term facility on commercially reasonable terms if at all. If AngloGold Ashanti does not complete the sale of its interest in the Boddington Gold Mine then it may have less cash available, including to repay amounts outstanding under the $1 billion term facility. The sale of AngloGold Ashanti's interest in the Boddington Gold Mine is subject to the fulfilment of all conditions precedent on or prior to June 30, 2009 or such later date as the parties may mutually agree. At the date of this document all but one of the conditions precedent to the transaction have been fulfilled. If the last condition precedent is not fulfilled to the satisfaction of AngloGold Ashanti, and AngloGold Ashanti and Newmont Mining Corporation are unable to agree on an acceptable resolution, the transaction may not complete. In that event, AngloGold Ashanti will not receive the approximately $1.1 billion transaction consideration and will remain responsible for its share of the Boddington project's capital expenditures. This will reduce the cash available to AngloGold Ashanti in the near-term, including to repay amounts outstanding under the $1 billion term facility. AngloGold Ashanti uses gold hedging instruments and has entered into long-term sales contracts, which may prevent the company from realizing potential gains resulting from subsequent commodity price increases in the future. AngloGold Ashanti's reported financial condition could be adversely affected as a result of the need to fair value all of its hedge contracts. AngloGold Ashanti has used gold hedging instruments to protect and fix the selling price of some of its anticipated production. The use of such instruments prevents full participation in subsequent increases in the market price for the commodity with respect to covered production. Since 2001, AngloGold Ashanti has been reducing its hedge commitments through hedge buy-backs (limited to non-hedge derivatives), deliveries into contracts and restructuring in order to provide greater participation in a rising gold price environment. As a result of these measures, AngloGold Ashanti has, and expects to continue to have, substantially less protection against declines in the market price of gold as compared with previous years. AngloGold Ashanti continues to use gold hedging instruments to fix the selling price of a portion of its anticipated gold production and to protect revenues against unfavorable gold price and exchange rate movements. While the use of these instruments may protect against a drop in gold prices and exchange rate movements, it will do so for only a limited period of time and only to the extent that the hedge remains in place. The use of these instruments may also prevent AngloGold Ashanti from fully realizing the positive impact on income from any subsequent favorable increase in the price of gold on the portion of production covered by the hedge and of any subsequent favorable exchange rate movements. In 2008, AngloGold Ashanti used part of the proceeds from its $1.7 billion rights offer to undertake a major restructuring of the hedge book. This he dge restructuring resulted in hedge commitments reducing by 5.29 million ounces (or 47 percent) from 11.28 million ounces as at December 31, 2007 to 5.99 million ounces as at December 31, 2008. Although this hedge restructuring has significantly reduced the exposure to the hedge book, a rising gold price may result in a gap between the spot price and AngloGold Ashanti's received price of gold for ounces still hedged, and this may continue as AngloGold Ashanti closes out its existing hedge positions by delivering into contracts. A significant number of AngloGold Ashanti's forward sales contracts are not treated as derivatives and fair valued on the financial statements as they fall under the normal purchase sales exemption. Should AngloGold Ashanti fail to settle these contracts by physical delivery, then it may be required to account for the fair value of a portion, or potentially all of, the existing contracts in the financial statements. This could adversely affect Ang loGold Ashanti's reported financial condition. As the global financial crisis continues, some of AngloGold Ashanti's hedge counterparts may either be unable to perform their obligations under the applicable derivative instrument or in certain cases elect to terminate their contracts early in 2010, which may result in the company being called upon to immediately meet any obligation under the hedge contracts with such hedge counterparts. If exercised, the early termination options under certain of the company’s hedging contracts could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial position through an acceleration of potentially material cash outflows associated with the early closure of these hedging contracts and the accounting for these settlements in the income statement. 23 Power stoppages, fluctuations and energy cost increases could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. In South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti's mining operations are dependent upon electrical power generated by the state utility, Eskom. As a result of an increase in demand exceeding available generating capacity, Eskom warned that South Africa could face disruptions in electrical power supply. At the start of 2008, as a result of substantial unplanned maintenance at Eskom's power stations, as well as higher than usual seasonal rainfall adversely impacting upon Eskom's coal stockpiles, Eskom's generating capacity was severely impaired. As a result, the incidence of power outages increased substantially to the point that, in January 2008, Eskom warned that it could no longer guarantee the availability of its supply of electrical power to the Sout h African mining industry. Consequently, AngloGold Ashanti, along with other mining companies with South African operations, was forced temporarily to suspend mining operations at its South African mines. Following meetings between industry-wide representatives, including AngloGold Ashanti, and Eskom, agreement was reached whereby mines were able to resume their power consumption to 90 percent of average capacity in return for Eskom guaranteeing a more normal power supply, including undertakings to more reliably warn companies when power outages may occur. Mining operations resumed later in January 2008 at AngloGold Ashanti's mines, and since then, power supply to the South African operations has been at 90 percent of average capacity. AngloGold Ashanti cannot give assurance that power supply to its South African operations will not experience future interruptions as the national grid system in South Africa continues to face emergency failure conditions. In the third qua rter of 2008, Eskom applied for a tariff review and the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA) granted an additional 20 percent increase for the nine remaining months of the Eskom financial year (July 2008 to March 2009). In addition, it was indicated that the increase of electricity rates for the next three years could be in the order of 20-25 percent per annum. The company understands that Eskom is compiling an application for tariff increases to NERSA for the 2009 increase. Should the power outages continue to increase, or should AngloGold Ashanti be unable to achieve its production or cost targets due to the current constraint, any additional power outages or any power tariff increases, then its future profitability and financial condition may be adversely affected. All of AngloGold Ashanti's mining operations in Ghana are dependant for their electricity supply on hydro-electric power supplied by the Volta River Authority (VRA) an entity controlled by the government of Ghana. Most of this electrical power is hydro-generated electricity, although AngloGold Ashanti also has access to VRA electricity supply from a recently constructed smaller thermal plant. The VRA's principal electricity generating facility is the Akosombo Dam and during periods of below average inflows from the Volta reservoir, electricity supplies from the Akosombo Dam may be curtailed, as occurred in 1998, 2006 and the first half of 2007. In addition, during periods of limited electricity availability, the national power system is subject to system disturbances and voltage fluctuations, which can damage the group's equipment. The VRA also obtains power from neighboring Côte d'Ivoire, which has intermittently experienced some political instability and civil unrest. These factors, including increased power demand from other users in Ghana, may cause interruptions in AngloGold Ashanti's power supply to its operations in Ghana or result in increases in th e cost of power even if they do not interrupt supply. Consequently, these factors may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. In order to address this problem and to supplement the power generated by the VRA, AngloGold Ashanti has, together with the other three principal gold producers in Ghana, acquired (and equally funded) an 85 megawatt, diesel-fired, power plant that could be converted to gas supply once the anticipated West African gas pipeline is developed. To further reduce the dependence on hydro-electric power, which may be impacted by low rainfall, the VRA is increasing its thermal power generation capacity by constructing a 126 megawatt thermal plant at Tema. In July 2008, the government of Ghana informed mining companies operating in the country that they would now pay an increased rate per kilowatt hour of power resulting in an increase at Obuasi from 9.2 to 15.45 US cents per kilowatt hour and for Iduapriem from 9.2 to 17.81 US cents per kilowatt hour. The mining companies in Ghana, including AngloGold Ashanti are in negotiation with the government to seek a reduction in power rates. AngloGold Ashanti cannot give assurance that these negotiations will result in a reduction in power rates. AngloGold Ashanti's mining operations in Guinea, Tanzania and Mali are dependent on power supplied by outside contractors and supplies of fuel being delivered by road. AngloGold Ashanti's power supply has been disrupted in the past and it has suffered resulting production losses as a result of equipment failure. 24 Contracts for sale of uranium at fixed prices could affect AngloGold Ashanti's operational results and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti has entered into contracts for the sale of uranium produced by some of its South African operations and may therefore be prevented from realizing all potential gains from an increase in uranium prices to the extent that the group's future production is covered by such contracts. Should AngloGold Ashanti not produce sufficient quantities of uranium to cover such contracts, it may need to procure or borrow uranium in the market to meet any shortfall which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. Foreign exchange fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's operational results and financial condition. Gold is principally a dollar-priced commo dity, and most of AngloGold Ashanti's revenues are realized in, or linked to, dollars while production costs are largely incurred in the applicable local currency where the relevant operation is located. The weakening of the dollar, without a corresponding increase in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies, results in lower revenues and higher production costs in dollar terms. Conversely, the strengthening of the dollar, without a corresponding decrease in the dollar price of gold against these local currencies yields significantly higher revenues and lower production costs in dollar terms. Exchange rate movements may have a material effect on AngloGold Ashanti's operational results. For example, a 1 percent strengthening of the South African rand, Brazilian real, the Argentinean peso and the Australian dollar against the US dollar will result in an increase in total cash costs incurred of nearly $3 per ounce, or 1 percent. A small proportion of AngloGol d Ashanti's hedges are denominated in South African rands and Australian dollars, which may partially offset the effect of the US dollar's strength or weakness on AngloGold Ashanti's profitability. In addition, due to its global operations and local foreign exchange regulations, some of AngloGold Ashanti's funds are held in local currencies, such as the South African rand and the Australian dollar. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's operational results. The majority of AngloGold Ashanti's operations are located in countries that have experienced high rates of inflation during certain periods. Since AngloGold Ashanti is unable to influence the market price at which it sells gold (except to the extent that it enters into forward sales and other derivative contracts), it is possible that significantly higher future inflation in the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates may result in an increase in future o perational costs in local currencies (without a concurrent devaluation of the local currency of operations against the dollar or an increase in the dollar price of gold). This could have a material adverse effect upon AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. While none of AngloGold Ashanti's specific operations is currently materially adversely affected by inflation, significantly higher and sustained inflation in the future, with a consequent increase in operational costs, could result in operations being discontinued or reduced or rationalized at higher cost mines. AngloGold Ashanti's new order mining rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the company breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights. AngloGold Ashanti's rights to own and exploit Mineral Reserves and deposits are governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction s in which the mineral properties are located. Currently, a significant portion of its Mineral Reserves and deposits are located in South Africa, where new order mining rights could be suspended or cancelled should AngloGold Ashanti breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights. Custodianship and the issuance of South Africa's mineral and prospecting rights vest in the state pursuant to the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA). Such rights, formerly regulated under the Minerals Act 50 of 1991 and common law, are now known as old order mining rights and the transitional arrangements provided in Schedule II to the MPRDA give holders of old order mining rights the opportunity to convert their old order mining rights into new order mining rights within specified timeframes. 25 The Department of Minerals and Energy (DME) has published, pursuant to the MPRDA, the Broad-Based Socio Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry (the Mining Charter). Compliance with the Mining Charter, measured using a designated scorecard, requires that every mining company achieve 15 percent ownership by historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) of its South African mining assets by May 1, 2009, and 26 percent ownership by May 1, 2014, and achieve participation by HDSAs in various other aspects of management referred to below. AngloGold Ashanti has submitted two social and labor plans – one for each of its main mining regions – detailing its specific goals in these areas to the DME. The scorecard allows for a portion of 'offset' against the HDSAs equity participation requirements insofar as companies have facilitated downstream, value-adding activities in respect of the products they mine. AngloGold Ashanti carries out such downstream activities and believes these will be recognized in terms of a framework currently being devised by the South African Government. AngloGold Ashanti believes that it has made significant progress towards meeting the requirements of the Mining Charter, the Scorecard and its own undertakings in terms of human resource development, employment equity, mine community and rural development, housing and living conditions, procurement and beneficiation, including the implementation of programs to help achieve the requirement of having 40 percent of management roles being held by HDSAs by 2010, as well as the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) as implemented at the end of 2006. AngloGold Ashanti will incur expenses in giving further effect to the Mining Charter and the Scorecard and the implementation of the ESOP will affect the group's results of operations. The Mining Charter itself provide s that it should be reviewed five years after becoming law. The review process, being conducted in consultation between the government and mining companies, is scheduled to take place during 2009. The outcome might impose new conditions on mining companies operating in South Africa. AngloGold Ashanti was informed on August 1, 2005, by the Director General of Minerals and Energy that its applications to convert its old order rights to new order mining rights for its West Wits and Vaal River operations, as well as its applications for new mining rights to extend its mining areas at its TauTona and Kopanang mines, had been successful. These applications relate to all of its existing operations in South Africa. The notarial agreements for the converted West Wits mining right and Block 1C11 new mining right have been executed and registered. AngloGold Ashanti will also be applying for conversion of an old order mining right for a borrow pit at West Wits before the closing da te, which is expected to occur at the end of April 2009. The notarial agreements for the bulk of the Vaal River Operations and the adjacent areas of Jonkerskraal, Weltevreden, Moab Extension Area and the new right for Edom have been executed and registered. The sole remaining notarial agreement for the Vaal River operations, Grootdraai is pending. AngloGold Ashanti has also applied for the conversion of the Ergo old order right in order to cede the converted right to the purchaser of Ergo. Even where new order mining rights are obtained under the MPRDA, these rights may not be equivalent to the old order mining rights. The AngloGold Ashanti rights that have been converted and registered do not differ significantly from the relevant old order rights. The duration of the new rights will no longer be perpetual as was the case under old order mining rights but rather will be granted for a maximum period of 30 years, with renewals of up to 30 years each and, in the case of pr ospecting rights, a maximum period of five years with one renewal of up to three years. Furthermore, the MPRDA provides for a retention period after prospecting of up to three years with one renewal of up to two years, subject to certain conditions, such as non-concentration of resources, fair competition and non-exclusion of others. In addition, the new order rights will only be transferable subject to the consent of the Minister of Minerals and Energy. The new order mining rights can be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Minerals and Energy if, upon notice of a breach from the Minister, the entity breaching its obligations to comply with the MPRDA or the conditions of the notarial agreement fails to remedy such breach. The MPRDA also imposes additional responsibilities on mining companies relating to environmental management and to environmental damage, degradation or pollution resulting from their prospecting or mining activities. AngloGold Ashanti has a po licy of evaluating, minimizing and addressing the environmental consequences of its activities and, consistent with this policy and the MPRDA, conducts an annual review of the environmental costs and liabilities associated with the group's South African operations in light of the new, as well as existing, environmental requirements. The introduction of South African State royalties where a significant portion of AngloGold Ashanti's Mineral Reserves and operations are located will have an adverse effect on its results of operations and its financial condition. The Mineral and Petroleum Resources Royalty Act was promulgated by the South African Minister of Finance on November 24, 2008 and provides for the payment of a royalty according to a formula based on taxable earnings before interest and tax. It has a minimum rate of 0.5 percent and a maximum rate of 5 percent and is a tax deductible expense. It is estimated that the formula will translate to a royalty r ate of between 2.5 percent and 4 percent of gross sales in terms of current pricing assumptions. The payment of royalties was scheduled to begin on May 1, 2009 but has been postponed to March 1, 2010 as announced in the minister of finance’s budget speech on February 11, 2009. 26 Certain factors may affect AngloGold Ashanti's ability to support the carrying value of its property, plants and equipment, acquired properties, investments and goodwill on its balance sheet. AngloGold Ashanti reviews and tests the carrying value of its assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. AngloGold Ashanti values individual mining assets at the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable as independent of cash flows of other mining assets and liabilities. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, AngloGold Ashanti prepares estimates of expected future cash flows for each group of assets. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. They are significantly affected by reserve and production estimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices, discount rates, currency exchange rates, estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure. If any of these uncertainties occur either alone or in combination, it could require management to recognize an impairment, which could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's financial condition. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, AngloGold Ashanti recorded asset impairment charges on tangible assets and goodwill of $522 million (net of tax) in relation to certain former assets of Ashanti (comprising Obuasi, Geita and Iduapriem). Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact AngloGold Ashanti's reported financial results. The mining industry has limited industry specific accounting literature. As a result, diversity exists in the interpretation and application of accounting literature to mining specific issues. For example, AngloGold Ashanti capitali zes the drilling and related costs incurred to define and delineate a residual mineral deposit that has not been classified as proved and probable reserves at a development stage or production stage mine, whereas some companies expense such costs. As and when diversity in interpretation and application is addressed, it may impact AngloGold Ashanti's reported results should the adopted interpretation differ from the position followed by AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti's Mineral Reserves, deposits and mining operations are located in countries that face political, economic and/or security risks. Some of AngloGold Ashanti's mineral deposits and mining and exploration operations are located in countries that have experienced political instability and economic uncertainty. In all of the countries where AngloGold Ashanti operates, the formulation or implementation of government policies may be unpredictable on certain issues including regulations whi ch impact on its operations and changes in laws relating to issues such as mineral rights and asset ownership, taxation, royalties, import and export duties, currency transfers, restrictions on foreign currency holdings and repatriation of earnings. Any existing and new mining and exploration operations and projects AngloGold Ashanti carries out in these countries are, and will be subject to, various national and local laws, policies and regulations governing the ownership, prospecting, development and mining of Mineral Reserves, taxation and royalties, exchange controls, import and export duties and restrictions, investment approvals, employee and social/community relations and other matters. If, in one or more of these countries, AngloGold Ashanti was not able to obtain or maintain necessary permits, authorizations or agreements to implement planned projects or continue its operations under conditions or within time frames that make such plans and operations economic, or if legal, ownership, fiscal (including all royalties and duties), exchange control, employment, environmental and social laws and regimes, or the governing political authorities change materially, which could result in changes to such laws and regimes, its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. Certain of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti has mineral deposits or mining or exploration operations, including the Democratic Republic of Congo and Colombia, have in the past experienced and in certain cases continue to experience, a difficult security environment as well as political instability. In particular, various illegal groups active in regions in which the group is present may pose a credible threat of terrorism, extortion and kidnapping, which could have an adverse effect on the group's operations in such regions. In the event that continued operations in these countries compromise AngloGold Ashanti's security or business principles, it may withdraw from these countries on a temporary or permanent basis, which in turn, could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and its financial condition. 27 In 2007, the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) announced an industry-wide review of all mining concessions and related agreements, including the agreements related to the ownership and operation of the Company’s concessions in the DRC. As a result of this review, which has now been completed, the area of the Company’s project in north-eastern DRC has been reduced from over 9,000 square kilometers to 6,100 square kilometers, (and will be further reduced over a period of three years by 10 percent per annum for a maximum further reviewed to 4,270 aquare kilometers) and certain of the permit and surface right payments payable by the project have been increased. In addition, in December 2008, the National Council for Democracy and Development (CNDD) seized power in Guinea after the death of the country's long-standing president, Lasana Conte. Moussa Dadis Camara, preside nt of the CNDD, announced on December 27, 2008 the creation of a committee to examine and revise all existing mining agreements in Guinea. The committee's review process has not yet commenced and AngloGold Ashanti is currently unable to predict the outcome of the committee's examination. Pursuant to the direction of president Moussa Dadis Camasa, AngloGold Ashanti stopped production at its Siguri mine in Guinea on March 20, 2009. After discussions with the president, AngloGold Ashanti resumed production at its Siguiri mine in Guinea on March 24, 2009. AngloGold Ashanti cannot give any assurance that future stoppages of this nature may not occur. Such stoppages, if prolonged, could have a material adverse effect on the Siguiri mine. In Mali and Tanzania, AngloGold Ashanti is due refunds of input tax which remain outstanding for periods longer than those provided for in the respective statutes. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti has outstanding assessments and unresolv ed tax disputes in a number of countries. If the outstanding input taxes are not received, the tax disputes are not resolved and assessments are not made in a manner favorable to AngloGold Ashanti, it could have an adverse effect upon its results of operations and its financial condition. In Argentina, the government has applied export taxes of 5 percent to mining companies that were exempt therefrom. AngloGold Ashanti has filed a claim with the courts to recover the export tax. Labor disruptions and/or increased labor costs could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's operating results and financial condition. As at December 31, 2008, approximately 67 percent (2007: 77 percent) of AngloGold Ashanti's workforce excluding contractors or 63 percent of total workforce was located in South Africa. Approximately 98 percent of the workforce on its South African operations is unionized, with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) represen ting the majority of unionized workers. AngloGold Ashanti's employees in some South American countries and Ghana are also highly unionized. Trade unions have a significant impact on AngloGold Ashanti's labor relations climate, as well as on social and political reforms, most notably in South Africa. It has become established practice to negotiate wages and conditions of employment with the unions every two years through the Chamber of Mines of South Africa. An agreement was signed with the unions in August 2007, following negotiations between NUM, United Associations of South Africa (UASA) on behalf of some clerical and junior management staff and Solidarity (on behalf of a small number of miners) and the Chamber of Mines. A two-year deal was reached without resort to any industrial action. The next round of negotiations will take place in 2009. AngloGold Ashanti cannot give assurance that it will be able to renegotiate this agreement on satisfactory terms when it expires in 2009. Labor costs represent a substantial proportion of AngloGold Ashanti's total operating costs, and in many operations, including South African operations, is AngloGold Ashanti's single largest operating cost category. The two-year wage agreement will be reviewed in June 2009 in negotiation with NUM, UASA, Solidarity and the Chamber of Mines and any increases in labor costs have to be off-set by greater productivity efforts by all operations and employees. There is a risk that strikes or other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any one of AngloGold Ashanti's operations. It is uncertain whether labor disruptions will be used to advocate labor, political or social goals in the future. Material labor disruptions could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. 28 The use of mining contractors at certain of AngloGold Ashanti's operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in mining activities and increases in mining costs. Mining contractors are used at certain of AngloGold Ashanti's mines, including Sadiola, Morila and Yatela in Mali, Siguiri in Guinea, Iduapriem in Ghana and Sunrise Dam in Australia, to mine and deliver ore to processing plants. Consequently, at these mines, AngloGold Ashanti does not own all of the mining equipment and may face disruption of operations and incur costs and liabilities in the event that any of the mining contractors at these mines has financial difficulties, or should there be a dispute in renegotiating a mining contract, or a delay in replacing an existing contractor. Furthermore, increases in contract mining rates, in the absence of associated productivity increases, will have an adverse impact on AngloGold As hanti's results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies for key human resources. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies on a global basis to attract and retain key human resources at all levels with appropriate technical skills and operating and managerial experience necessary to continue to operate its business. This is further exacerbated in the current environment of increased mining activity across the globe combined with the global shortage of key mining industry human resource skills, including geologists, mining engineers, metallurgists and skilled artisans. The retention of staff is particularly challenging in South Africa, where, in addition to the impacts of the global industry wide shortages, AngloGold Ashanti is also required to achieve employment equity targets of participation by historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs) in management and ot her positions. AngloGold Ashanti competes with all companies in South Africa to attract and retain a small but growing pool of HDSAs with the necessary skills and experience. For further details, see the risk factor “AngloGold Ashanti's new order mineral rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled should the group breach, and fail to remedy such breach of, its obligations in respect of the acquisition of these rights”. There can be no assurance that AngloGold Ashanti will attract and retain skilled and experienced employees and, should it fail to do so or lose any of its key personnel, its business and growth prospects may be harmed and its results of operations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with HIV/AIDS that may adversely affect the results of its operations and the company's financial condition. AIDS and associated diseases remain th e major health care challenge faced by AngloGold Ashanti's South African operations. Accurate prevalence data for AIDS is not available owing to doctor-patient confidentiality. The South African workforce prevalence studies indicate that the percentage of AngloGold Ashanti's South African workforce that may be infected by HIV may be as high as 30 percent. AngloGold Ashanti is continuing to develop and implement various programs aimed at helping those who have been infected with HIV and preventing new infections. Since 2001, AngloGold Ashanti has offered a voluntary counseling and HIV testing program for employees in South Africa. In 2002, AngloGold Ashanti began to offer anti-retroviral therapy (ART) to HIV positive employees who met the current medical criteria for the initiation of ART. From April 2003, AngloGold Ashanti commenced a roll-out of the treatment to all eligible employees desiring it. Approximately 5,400 employees have been registered on the wellness program over the last three years and of these around 4,000 employees have attended the clinic in the last six months. As of December 2008, approximately 1,900 employees were receiving treatment using anti-retroviral drugs. The cost of providing rigorous outcome-focused disease management of employees with AIDS, including the provision of an anti-retroviral therapy, is on average R1,300 ($130) per employee on treatment per month. It is not yet possible to develop an accurate cost estimate of the program in its entirety, given uncertainties such as drug prices and the ultimate rate of employee participation. AngloGold Ashanti does not expect the cost that it will incur related to the prevention of HIV infection and the treatment of AIDS to materially and adversely affect its results of operations. Nevertheless, it is not possible to determine with certainty the costs that AngloGold Ashanti may incur in the future in addressing this issue, and consequently its results of ope rations and its financial condition could be adversely affected. 29 AngloGold Ashanti faces certain risks in dealing with malaria and other tropical disease outbreaks, particularly at its operations located in Africa, which may have an adverse effect on operational results. Malaria and other tropical diseases pose significant health risks at all of AngloGold Ashanti's operations in Central, West and East Africa where such diseases may assume epidemic proportions because of ineffective national control programs. Malaria is a major cause of death in young children and pregnant women but also gives rise to fatalities and absenteeism in adult men. Consequently, if uncontrolled, the disease could have an adverse effect upon productivity and profitability levels of AngloGold Ashanti's operations located in these regions. The treatment of occupational health diseases and the potential liabilities related to occupational health diseases may have a n adverse effect upon the results of AngloGold Ashanti's operations and its financial condition. The primary areas of focus in respect of occupational health within AngloGold Ashanti's operations are noise induced hearing loss (NIHL), occupational lung diseases (OLD), which includes pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) in silica dust exposed individuals. AngloGold Ashanti provides occupational health services to its employees at its occupational health centers and it continues to improve preventative occupational hygiene initiatives. If the costs associated with providing such occupational health services increase, the increase could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti's results of operations and its financial condition. Furthermore, the South African government, by way of a cabinet resolution in 1999, proposed a possible combination and alignment of benefits of the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act (ODMWA) that provides for compensation to miners who have OLD, TB and combinations thereof, and the Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act (COIDA) that provides for compensation to non-miners who have OLD. COIDA provides for compensation payments to workers suffering permanent disabilities from OLD, which are classified as pension liabilities if the permanent disability is above a certain threshold, or a lump sum compensation payment if the permanent disability is below a certain threshold. ODMWA only provides for a lump sum compensation payment to workers suffering from OLD. The capitalized value of a pension liability (in accordance with COIDA) is usually greater than that of a lump sum compensation payment (under ODMWA). In addition, under COIDA compensation becomes payable at a lower threshold of permanent disability than under ODMWA. It is estimated that under COIDA about two to three times more of AngloGold Ashanti's employees would be compensated as compared with those eligible for compensation under ODM WA. If the proposed combination of COIDA and ODMWA were to occur, this could further increase the level of compensation claims AngloGold Ashanti could be subject to and consequently could have an adverse effect on its financial condition. Mr Thembekile Mankayi instituted a legal action against AngloGold Ashanti in October 2006 in the High Court, Witwatersrand Local Division. Mr Mankayi claimed approximately R2.6 million (approximately $0.27 million) for damages allegedly suffered by him as a result of silicosis allegedly contracted whilst working on mines now owned by AngloGold Ashanti. The case was heard and a judgment in the exception action was rendered on June 26, 2008 in favor of AngloGold Ashanti on the basis that mine employers are insured under ODMWA and COIDA against compensable diseases, which precludes common law delictual claims by employees against employers. The plaintiff has been granted leave to appeal the judgment. If AngloGold Ashanti is unsuc cessful in defending this suit, it could be subject to numerous similar claims which could have an adverse effect on its financial condition. In response to the effects of silicosis in labor sending communities, a number of mining companies (under the auspices of the Chamber of Mines), together with the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) which is the largest union in the mining sector and the national and regional departments of health have embarked on a project to assist in the delivery of compensation and relief by mining companies under the ODMWA to communities that have been affected. The costs associated with the pumping of water inflows from closed mines adjacent to AngloGold Ashanti's operations could have an adverse effect upon operational results. Certain of AngloGold Ashanti's mining operations are located adjacent to the mining operations of other mining companies. The closure of a mining operation may have an impact upon continued oper ations at the adjacent mine if appropriate preventative steps are not taken. In particular, this can include the ingress of underground water where pumping operations at the adjacent closed mine are suspended. Such ingress could have an adverse effect upon any one of AngloGold Ashanti's mining operations as a result of property damage, disruption to operations and additional pumping costs. 30 AngloGold Ashanti has embarked on legal action in South Africa after the owner of an adjacent mine put the company owning the adjacent mining operation into liquidation, raising questions about its and other companies' willingness to meet their water pumping obligations. The relevant mining companies have entered into a settlement agreement. As part of the settlement arrangement the mining companies have formed and registered a not-for-profit company, known as the Margaret Water Company, to conduct water pumping activities from the highest lying shaft which is currently owned by Stilfontein Gold Mining Company (in liquidation). The three mining companies will contribute equally to the cost of establishing and initially running the Margaret Water Company. The occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured or for which its insurance is inadequate may adversely affect its cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti maintains insurance to protect only against catastrophic events which could have a significant adverse effect on its operations and profitability. This insurance is maintained in amounts that AngloGold Ashanti believes to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, AngloGold Ashanti's insurance does not cover all potential risks associated with its business. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti may elect not to insure certain risks, due to the high premiums associated with insuring those risks or for various other reasons, including an assessment that the risks are remote. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable premiums. AngloGold Ashanti has a captive insurance company, namely AGRe Insurance Company Limited, which participates at various levels in certain of the insurances maintained by AngloGold Asha nti. The occurrence of events for which it is not insured may adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti's cash flows and overall profitability and its financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti does not have management control over two significant joint venture projects. If these projects are not managed effectively, AngloGold Ashanti's investment could be adversely affected or its reputation could be harmed. AngloGold Ashanti's joint ventures at Morila in Mali and Boddington in Western Australia are managed by its joint venture partners. While AngloGold Ashanti may provide operational advice to its joint venture partners, it cannot ensure that these projects are operated in compliance with the standards that it applies in its other operations. If these joint ventures are not managed effectively, including as a result of weaknesses in the policies, procedures and controls implemented by the joint venture partners, AngloGold Ashanti's investment in the relevant proj ect could be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity associated with ineffective management, particularly relating to any resulting accidents or environmental incidents could harm AngloGold Ashanti's reputation. AngloGold Ashanti expects to complete the sale of its interest in the Boddington project to its joint venture partner in the second quarter of 2009 but currently has no plans to dispose of its interest in the Morila mine. AngloGold Ashanti may experience unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs in successfully implementing its business strategy, and its strategy may not result in the anticipated benefits. The successful implementation of AngloGold Ashanti's business strategy depends upon a number of factors, including factors that are outside its control. For example, the successful management of costs will depend upon prevailing market prices for input costs and the ability to grow the business will depend upon the availability of attractive merger and acquisition opportunities as well as the successful implementation of AngloGold Ashanti's existing and proposed project development initiatives and continued exploration success, all of which are subject to the relevant mining and company specific risks as outlined in this risk section. AngloGold Ashanti cannot give assurance that unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs will not adversely affect the successful implementation of its business strategy, or that it its strategy will result in the anticipated benefits. 31 Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares (ADSs) Sales of large quantities of AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares and ADSs, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of such securities. The market price of AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares or ADSs could fall if large quantities of ordinary shares or ADSs are sold in the public market, or there is the perception in the marketplace that such sales could occur. Subject to applicable securities laws, holders of AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares or ADSs may decide to sell them at any time. The market price of AngloGold Ashanti's ordinary shares or ADS could also fall as a result of any future offerings it makes of ordinary shares, ADSs, or securities exchangeable or exercisable for its ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perceptio n in the marketplace that these sales might occur. AngloGold Ashanti may make such offerings of additional ADS rights, letters of allocation or similar securities at any time or from time to time in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of currencies may reduce the market value of AngloGold Ashanti's securities, as well as the market value of any dividends or distributions paid by AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti has historically declared all dividends in South African rands. As a result, exchange rate movements may have affected and may continue to affect the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Ghanaian cedi and the US dollar value of these dividends, as well as of any other distributions paid by the relevant depositary to investors that hold AngloGold Ashanti's securities. This may reduce the value of these securities to investors. AngloGold Ashanti's Memorandum and Articles of Association allows for dividends and distribu tions to be declared in any currency at the discretion of AngloGold Ashanti's board of directors, or its shareholders at a general meeting. If and to the extent that AngloGold Ashanti opts to declare dividends and distributions in dollars, exchange rate movements will not affect the dollar value of any dividends or distributions, nevertheless, the value of any dividend or distribution in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis or South African rands will continue to be affected. If and to the extent that dividends and distributions are declared in South African rands, exchange rate movements will continue to affect the Australian dollar, British pound, Ghanaian cedi and US dollar value of these dividends and distributions. Furthermore, the market value of AngloGold Ashanti's securities as expressed in Australian dollars, British pounds, Ghanaian cedis, US dollars and South African rands will continue to fluctuate in part as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations. The recently announced proposal by the South African Government to replace the Secondary Tax on Companies with a withholding tax on dividends and other distributions may impact the amount of dividends or other distributions received by the company's shareholders. On February 21, 2007, the South African Government announced a proposal to replace Secondary Tax on Companies with a 10 percent withholding tax on dividends and other distributions payable to shareholders. This proposal is expected to be implemented in 2010. Although this may reduce the tax payable by the South African operations of the group thereby increasing distributable earnings, the withholding tax will generally reduce the amount of dividends or other distributions received by AngloGold Ashanti shareholders. 32 