RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal risks are described below. Economic A decline in demand resulting, for example, from a decline in consumer demand or a weakening investment environment, rising interest rates or fuel prices, could significantly adversely affect our businesses in various markets, including Western Europe and the United States. We derive approximately half our revenue from our business in Western Europe. A major slowdown in the Western European economy or in the industries in which we operate could have a significant impact on our business. A drop in economic growth in Western Europe could result not only from a structural weakness or decline in domestic demand in major European economies, but also from negative effects of a U.S. recession or an even more pronounced appreciation of the euro. The major short-term risk of the U.S. economy is a deeper than expected deceleration of the economy or even recession due to the economic effects resulting from the subprime crisis. A decline in investment and private consumption could severely affect the sales of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. In addition, the U.S. economy continues to require significant capital inflow from non-U.S. investors to finance the large current account deficit of the United States. A pronounced decline in demand for U.S. dollar denominated investments could lead to a further, and possibly sharper, depreciation of the U.S. dollar which may force the United States to raise its key interest rates. Higher interest rates and a further and possibly sharper depreciation of the U.S. dollar could reduce demand for our vehicles. Due to the global importance of the U.S. economy and the existing interdependencies between the United States and other major economies throughout the world, any significant economic downturn in the United States would likely adversely affect Western European and other world markets. Similarly, inflationary pressure caused by sustained high energy prices could lead to an increase in interest rates and, as a result, a decline in automotive sales. High fuel prices can also lead to a shift to smaller, lighter, more fuel-efficient cars, which generally provide a lower gross margin than larger vehicles, as well as to the deferral of purchases. The occurrence of any of these or other events that threaten consumer and investor confidence (for example, international disputes, political instability, terrorism, or significant declines in stock or housing markets) may significantly adversely affect our future sales, primarily in Western Europe or the United States. Since a high proportion of our costs is fixed, even small declines in sales can significantly affect our operating results and cash flows. An economic downturn in Asian economies could delay our plans for expansion in Asian markets and intensify competitive pressures. A decline in Asian economies could not only negatively affect future business prospects of our subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and sales of our Mercedes-Benz passenger cars in Asia, but also our long-term strategic expansion plans for growth in Asian markets. An economic downturn in China, in particular, could delay our expansion in that increasingly important market and could also negatively impact the economies in the United States and Western Europe. Moreover, if economic conditions in Asia were to deteriorate, especially if coupled with depreciating Asian currencies, then Asian competitors with excess capacity might intensify their efforts to export vehicles to North America and Western Europe. This would not only intensify competition for market share, but also increase further the existing pressure on margins within the automotive industry. 5 Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by economic or political change. We, in particular our Daimler Trucks segment, our Daimler Buses operating unit, and our Daimler Financial Services segment, have significant operations in several Latin American countries and in Turkey. Some of the countries in those regions may experience severe economic or political change, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our investments as well as local demand in those and neighboring countries, thereby negatively affecting our cash flows and results of operations. Protectionist trade policies could negatively affect our business in several markets. Demand for motor vehicles could also be affected by the political and regulatory environment in the markets in which we operate. For example, a discord in international trade relations and the implementation of new tariff or non-tariff trade barriers could negatively affect our global sales and procurement activities as well as expansion plans in affected areas. The proliferation of bilateral free trade agreements between third party countries could negatively affect our position in those foreign markets, especially in Southeast Asia where Japan increasingly gains preferential market access. Industry and Business Overcapacity and intense competition in the automotive industry create pricing pressure and force further cost reductions. Intense price competition and overcapacity in the automotive industry could force manufacturers of passenger cars and commercial vehicles to decrease production, reduce capacity or increase sales incentives. Our ability to improve or even maintain our profitability depends, among other things, on maintaining competitive cost structures, including the ability to obtain competitive prices from suppliers, and introducing exciting new products. Our ability to achieve further price reductions from suppliers, however, may be limited by a combination of factors, including consolidation among automotive suppliers, the use of a single supplier for certain components, and increasing supplier insolvencies. In addition, if we are unable to continue to provide competitive pricing, customers may elect to purchase competitors' products and our future profitability and cash flows may suffer. Discounts and other sales incentives have become more common in many automotive markets, including Western Europe, and are customary in the United States and Canada. Sales incentives in the new vehicle business also influence the price level of used vehicles, which could adversely affect the profitability of our used vehicle sales and, indirectly, the profitability of our future new vehicle sales. High commodities prices and increased pressure on our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability and cash flows. Prices for raw materials that we or our suppliers use in manufacturing our products or components therefore, such as steel, aluminum, petroleum-based products and a number of precious metals, continue to remain at historically high levels. Further price increases for these or other raw materials may lead to higher component and production costs that could in turn negatively impact our future profitability and cash flows because we may not be able to pass all those costs on to our customers or require our suppliers to absorb such costs. Additionally, high raw material prices and intense competition in the automotive industry are having a significant adverse effect on the financial position and business continuity of key suppliers, some of whom are in bankruptcy. We have provided, and in the future may provide, financial support to suppliers in order to avoid prolonged interruption in the supply of components, which could have a significant negative impact on our profitability and cash flows. 6 Risks arising from our leasing and sales financing business may adversely affect our future operating results and cash flows. The financial services we offer in connection with the sale of vehicles involve several risks. These include possible higher refinancing costs and the potential inability to recover our investments in leased vehicles or to collect our sales financing receivables. If any of these risks materialize, our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. For instance, our ability to recover our investments in leased vehicles may deteriorate as a result of a decline in resale prices of used vehicles and our ability to collect our sales financing receivables could be negatively affected by consumer or dealer insolvencies. New vehicle sales incentives indirectly lower the resale prices of used vehicles. A decline in resale prices of used vehicles could in turn result in downward pressure on the carrying values of leased vehicles and negatively affect the collateral value of our sales financing and finance lease receivables. Please refer to "Critical Accounting Policies" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" for additional information on how we account for our leasing and sales financing business. Our future profitability will depend on our ability to offer competitive prices while maintaining a high level of product quality. Product quality significantly influences the consumer's decision to purchase passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Reductions in our product quality could severely tarnish our image as a manufacturer, thereby negatively affecting our future sales and, as a consequence, our future operating results and cash flows. Increasing consumer sensitivity to pricing may limit our ability to pass higher costs on to customers. Our attempts to reduce costs along the automotive value chain may place additional cost and pricing pressure on suppliers, which can also negatively affect product quality. Additionally, component parts or assembly defects could require us to undertake service actions and recall campaigns, or even to develop new technical solutions requiring regulatory certification prior to implementation. We may need to expend considerable resources for these remediation measures, resulting in higher provisions for new warranties issued and expenses in excess of already established provisions for product guarantees previously issued. Our future success depends on our ability to offer innovative new products and meet consumer demand. Meeting consumer demand with new vehicles developed over increasingly shorter product development cycles is critical to the success of automobile manufacturers. Our ability to strengthen our position within our traditional product and market segments through research and development of innovative products and services while expanding into additional market segments with innovative new products will play an important role in determining our future success. A general shift in consumer preference towards smaller, lower margin vehicles could have a negative effect on our profitability. Such a shift could result from, among other things, increasing fuel prices, government regulations, for example speed limits or higher taxes on certain types of vehicles, such as sport utility vehicles or luxury automobiles, or environmental concerns, for example, the level of carbon dioxide emissions. Potential delays in bringing new vehicles to market, the inability to achieve defined efficiency targets without suffering from quality losses and a lack of market acceptance of our new models would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to legal proceedings and environmental and other government regulations. A negative outcome in one or more of our pending legal proceedings could adversely affect our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Please refer to the discussion under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in "Item 8. Financial Information" for further information. The automotive industry is subject to extensive governmental regulations worldwide. Laws in various jurisdictions regulate occupant safety and the environmental impact of vehicles, including emission levels, fuel 7 economy and noise, as well as the levels of pollutants generated by the plants that produce them. The cost of compliance with these regulations is significant, and we expect to incur higher compliance costs in the future. New legislation may subject us to additional expense in the future, which could be significant. For example, in an effort to reduce greenhouse gases, several countries have already imposed more stringent regulations on carbon dioxide emissions or are currently in the process of adopting such regulations. The European Union is currently considering legislation that would impose severe restrictions on carbon dioxide emissions of motor vehicles. The adoption of such legislation would likely result in significant additional compliance costs. For further information on government regulation and environmental matters, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Government Regulation and Environmental Matters" in "