Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities. The current economic downturn, and resulting decreases in North American construction and industrial activities, has adversely affected our revenues and operating results and may further decrease the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge. Our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. Trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. Weakness in our end markets, such as the decline in construction and industrial activity our industry has been experiencing as a result of the current recession, has led to a decrease in the demand for our equipment and the prices that we can charge and will likely lead to further decreases. Such decreases adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues to decline and, because certain of our costs are fixed, our operating margins to be reduced. 9 Table of Contents The following factors, among others, may cause further weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: • the depth and duration of the current economic downturn and lack of availability of credit; • a decrease in expected levels of infrastructure spending; • an increase in the cost of construction materials; • an increase in interest rates; • adverse weather conditions, which may temporarily affect a particular region; or • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada. If we are unable to collect on contracts with customers, our operating results would be adversely affected. One of the reasons some of our customers find it more attractive to rent equipment than own that equipment is the need to deploy their capital elsewhere. This has been particularly true in industries with high growth rates such as the construction industry. However, some of our customers may have liquidity issues and ultimately may not be able to fulfill the terms of their rental agreements with us. If we are unable to manage credit risk issues adequately, or if a large number of customers should have financial difficulties at the same time, our credit losses could increase above historical levels and our operating results would be adversely affected. Further, delinquencies and credit losses generally can be expected to increase during economic slowdowns or recessions. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. We expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. These factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: • seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; • changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; • changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; • changes in demand for, or utilization of, our equipment or in the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of fuel and steel to our equipment suppliers; • other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; • labor shortages, work stoppages or other labor difficulties; • potential enactment of new legislation affecting our operations or labor relations; • completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; • the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to potential acquisitions as a result of a recent change in accounting rules (see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements); • increases in interest rates and related increases in our interest expense and our debt service obligations; • the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, the impairment of assets, rental location divestitures, dislocation in the equity and/or credit markets, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness or the buy-out of equipment leases; and • currency risks and other risks of international operations. 10 Table of Contents Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. Our common stock price has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future for a number of reasons, including: • announcements of developments related to our business; • market perceptions of the likelihood of our involvement in merger and acquisition activity; • variations in our revenues, gross margins, earnings or other financial results from investors’ expectations; • departure of key personnel; • purchases or sales of large blocks of our stock or transactions by insiders; • fluctuations in results of our operations and general conditions in the economy, our market, and the markets served by our customers; • investor perceptions of the equipment rental industry in general and our company in particular; and • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies. In addition, prices in the stock market have been volatile in recent months. In many cases, the fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. As a result, the price of our common stock could fluctuate in the future without regard to our or our competitors’ operating performance. Our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. At December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.3 billion, including $146 million of subordinated convertible debentures. Our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. For example, it will or could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constraining our financial flexibility; • restrict our ability to move operating cash flows to Holdings (for example, the “restricted payment” basket capacity provided for in the indenture for our 6 1/2 percent Senior Notes due 2012 has been fully depleted by our 2008 activity, including our fourth quarter goodwill impairment charge); • affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; and • decrease our profitability or cash flow. Further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • limiting our growth; • seeking additional capital; • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. 11 Table of Contents A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. At December 31, 2008, we had $948 million of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. This amount represents 30 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our subordinated convertible debentures. See Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. If we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. Under the agreement governing our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (our “ABL facility”), we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (i) the fixed charge coverage ratio and (ii) the ratio of senior secured debt to adjusted EBITDA. Under our accounts receivable securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to: (i) the default ratio, (ii) the delinquency ratio, (iii) the dilution ratio and (iv) days sales outstanding. If we are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our ABL facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our ABL facility, accounts receivable securitization facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. In addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our ABL facility, accounts receivable securitization facility, as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the SEC. In addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. For instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, repurchase common stock, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. These covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our ABL facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. We may not be able to obtain additional debt financing as a result of prevailing interest rates or other factors, including the presence of covenants or other restrictions under our ABL facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and the depth and duration of the current economic downturn. In the event we seek to obtain equity financing, our stockholders may experience dilution as a result of the issuance of additional equity securities. This dilution may be significant depending upon the amount of equity securities that we issue and the prices at which we issue such securities. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to certain ongoing class action and derivative lawsuits, which could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. Multiple purported class action and derivative lawsuits have been filed against the Company, as described in greater detail under Item 3—Legal Proceedings. These include three complaints that were filed following our November 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of Cerberus had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the Company on the terms set forth in the merger agreement entered into with such persons. These complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that certain of the Company’s filings with the SEC, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of Cerberus. Each action asserts claims under Sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and SEC Rules 10b-5 and 14a-9 thereunder and, in the case of the individual defendants, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. We can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings or any other stockholder lawsuit pending against the Company and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. Further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments, to the extent not covered, advanced or timely reimbursed by insurance, could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. As previously reported, on March 10, 2008, we announced that we had entered into a memorandum of understanding with lead plaintiff’s counsel to settle an action consolidating three purported class action lawsuits that were filed following our August 2004 announcement of an SEC inquiry into the Company’s historical accounting practices. The memorandum of understanding is subject to final Court approval, and, although preliminary Court approval has been received, we cannot predict when or whether this final condition will be satisfied. Further, we received a letter from counsel for an alleged stockholder, which demands, among other things, that we investigate the agreement of our board of directors to enter into the memorandum of understanding. While, upon the recommendation of a new committee of independent directors, our board determined that it would not be in the best interests of the Company to take further action at this time, we cannot predict whether the relevant stockholder will pursue this matter further. Former officers of ours are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Connecticut, which could adversely affect our results of operations and investor perceptions. Although, as announced on September 8, 2008 and described in greater detail under Item 3—Legal Proceedings, the SEC inquiry described above was subsequently settled, we continue to cooperate fully with the U.S. Attorney’s office for the District of Connecticut, which has requested information from the Company informally and by subpoena about matters related to the SEC inquiry. As a result, we are likely to continue to incur additional expenses (including indemnification costs) and to experience diversion of management time and attention in connection with responding to such requests, regardless of the outcome. Two of our former chief financial officers (from prior to 2005) have been charged with securities fraud and other violations by both the U.S. Attorney’s office and the SEC, and one has pled guilty and the other is scheduled to go to trial in 2009. This trial, and any additional charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers may generate negative publicity and adversely affect the perception of the Company by investors and others (which, in turn, could affect the price of our securities, our access to capital markets and/or our borrowing costs). We cannot predict the schedule or outcome of the trial or when these matters might be resolved. We are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. We are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. These claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment-related claims. Further, as 13 Table of Contents described elsewhere in this report, several stockholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. Currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. However, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: • our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers’ compensation claim; • our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; • we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and • certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. We establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. To the extent that we are found liable for any significant claim or claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the purported class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s office inquiries, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms or at all. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. We have historically achieved a substantial portion of our growth through acquisitions. Although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, and the making of additional acquisitions is not a significant portion of our planned 2009 strategy, we are always open to considering potential acquisitions on a selective basis. From time-to-time we have also approached, or been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. Whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. The making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations or that are not subject to indemnification or reimbursement by the seller; • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; • loss of key employees of the acquired company; • the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and • strains on management and other personnel time and resources to evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions. We would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks. 14 Table of Contents We have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to expand our rental business over the past few years. These efforts place strains on our management and other personnel time and resources, and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. Our rights plan and charter provisions, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the Company. We have in place a stockholders’ rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for stockholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company that are not approved by our board, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then-current market prices. As previously reported, on October 16, 2008, we amended our rights plan to reduce the beneficial ownership threshold required to trigger rights under the plan from a 25 percent ownership interest to a 15 percent ownership interest. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which under certain circumstances restricts the ability of a publicly held Delaware corporation to engage in a business combination, such as a merger or sale of assets, with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. In addition, under our ABL facility, a change of control (as defined in the credit agreement) constitutes an event of default, entitling our lenders to terminate our ABL facility and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. A change of control (as defined in the applicable agreement) is also a termination event under our accounts receivable securitization facility and generally would require us to offer to repurchase our outstanding senior and senior subordinated notes, including the new 14 percent Senior Notes due 2014 (the “14 percent HoldCo Notes”). As a result, the provisions of the agreements governing our debt also may affect the likelihood of a takeover or other change of control. Turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. Our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world generally for top management talent is significant. Although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurance that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. Moreover, given the recent declines in our stock price, it may be more difficult and expensive to recruit and retain employees, particularly senior management, through grants of stock or stock options. This in turn could place greater pressure on the Company to increase the cash component of its compensation packages, which may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. Our operational and cost reduction strategies may not generate the improvements and efficiencies we expect. We are pursuing a strategy of analyzing and optimizing our field operations in order to improve sales force effectiveness, and to focus our sales force’s efforts on increasing revenues from our national account customers and from other large customers. We are also continuing to pursue an earlier-started overall cost reduction program, which achieved substantial cost savings in 2008. The extent to which these strategies will achieve our desired efficiencies and goals in 2009 and beyond is uncertain, as their success depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even if we carry out these strategies in the manner we currently expect, we may not achieve the efficiencies or savings we anticipate, or on the timetable we anticipate, and there may be 15 Table of Contents unforeseen productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from our strategies that will adversely affect us. Therefore, there can be no guarantee that our strategies will prove effective in achieving desired profitability, margins or returns to stockholders. We are dependent on our relationships with key suppliers to obtain equipment and other supplies for our business on acceptable terms. We have achieved significant cost savings through our centralization of equipment and, more recently, non-equipment purchases. However, as a result, we depend on and are exposed to the credit risk of a group of key suppliers. While we make every effort to evaluate our counterparties prior to entering into long-term and other significant procurement contracts, we cannot predict the impact on our suppliers of the current economic environment and other developments in their respective businesses. Insolvency, financial difficulties or other factors may result in our suppliers not being able to fulfill the terms of their agreements with us. Further, such factors may render suppliers unwilling to extend contracts that provide favorable terms to the Company or may force them to seek to renegotiate existing contracts with us. Although we believe we have alternative sources of supply for the equipment and other supplies used in our business, termination of our relationship with any of our key suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the unlikely event that we were unable to obtain adequate equipment and other supplies from other sources in a timely manner or at all. Continued deterioration in general economic and market conditions may further impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued deterioration in general economic and market conditions may further impact the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the prevailing credit crisis may significantly affect the ability of the Company to refinance existing indebtedness or to obtain additional financing. In addition, such conditions may result in further downward pressure on our stock price and market capitalization generally. As previously announced, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we incurred an aggregate non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 billion. We can provide no assurance that further declines in our stock price and market capitalization, together with other considerations, will not result in additional impairments to goodwill or other intangible assets or the need to conduct interim impairment reviews outside of our annual impairment test. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. The equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. Disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. In addition, because our systems sometimes contain information about individuals and businesses, our failure to appropriately maintain the security of the data we hold, whether as a result of our own error or the malfeasance or errors of others, could harm our reputation or give rise to legal liabilities leading to lower revenues, increased costs and other material adverse effects on our results of operations. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. If we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous waste and materials, and air quality. Under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. Our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. Based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. If we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be materially and adversely affected, depending on the magnitude of such costs. We have operations throughout the United States, which exposes us to multiple state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and requirements as a government contractor. Changes in applicable law, regulations or requirements, or our material failure to comply with any of them, can increase our costs and have other negative impacts on our business. Our over 600 branch locations are located in 48 different states, which exposes us to a host of different state and local regulations, in addition to federal law and regulatory and contractual requirements we face as a government contractor. These laws and requirements address multiple aspects of our operations, such as worker safety, consumer rights, privacy, employee benefits and more, and can often have different requirements in different jurisdictions. Changes in these requirements, or any material failure by our branches to comply with them, can increase our costs, affect our reputation, limit our business, drain management time and attention and generally otherwise impact our operations in adverse ways. Labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. We currently have approximately 700 employees who are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 9,200 employees who are not represented by unions. Various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. Union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. Further, settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements can have unknown effects on our labor costs, productivity and flexibility. In addition, pending federal legislation would make it easier for unions to organize by requiring employers to recognize unions based on card check authorization rather than by secret ballot election, and would impose arbitration to settle first-time collective bargaining agreements if the parties have not reached agreement within 120 days of recognition. The enactment of such legislation could significantly increase labor costs in ways that are difficult to predict. 17 Table of Contents Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. We believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. Accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. A significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our maintenance and equipment replacement costs increase as our rental fleet ages and we are unable to pass along such costs, our earnings will decrease. As we age our fleet of rental equipment, which we expect to do in 2009, the cost of maintaining such equipment, if not replaced within a certain period of time, may increase. Any increases in such costs will cause our earnings to decrease. In addition, the cost of the new equipment we use in our rental fleet is increasing and therefore we may spend more for replacement equipment. These cost increases are due primarily to increased material costs, including increases in the cost of steel, which is a primary material used in most of the equipment we use, and increases in the cost of fuel, which is used in the manufacturing process and in delivering equipment to us. These increases could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rental fleet is subject to residual value risk upon disposition, and may not sell at the prices or in the quantities we expect. The market value of any given piece of rental equipment could be less than its depreciated value at the time it is sold. The market value of used rental equipment depends on several factors, including: • the market price for new equipment of a like kind; • wear and tear on the equipment relative to its age and the performance of preventive maintenance; • the time of year that it is sold; • the supply of used equipment on the market; • the existence and capacities of different sales outlets; • the age of the equipment at the time it is sold; • worldwide and domestic demand for used equipment; and • general economic conditions. We include in income from operations the difference between the sales price and the depreciated value of an item of equipment sold. Changes in our assumptions regarding depreciation could change both our depreciation expense as well as the gain or loss realized upon disposal of equipment. Sales of our used rental equipment at prices that fall significantly below our projections and/or in lesser quantities than we anticipate, will have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. We have operations outside the United States. As a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. Our operations in Canada and Mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions, and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 