RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal risks are described below. Economic A lack of continued improvement in global economic conditions or a relapse into recession in any of the major world economies could have significant adverse effects on our business and our future operating results and cash flows. In the aftermath of the financial crisis that began in the second half of 2008 in the United States, the world economy in 2009 experienced the worst recession since the Second World War and the Great Depression. Despite a moderate recovery in the second half of 2009, the global economy remains fragile because of a continued tightness in the credit markets and unpredictable consumer demand and investment activity, especially in the United States and Western Europe. If the economic recovery in those regions or in other key markets in which we operate does not continue or stagnates or if the economies of key industrialized countries fall back into recession, our financial condition, our profitability and our cash flows would be adversely affected. In an environment of a highly fragile global economy, the occurrence of any events that threaten consumer and investor confidence generally (for example, international disputes, political instability, terrorism, volatility in equity or housing markets, rising energy prices, or inefficient financial market regulations) may exacerbate any adverse effects of the global economy on future sales, primarily in Western Europe, the United States and in some emerging markets. Since a high proportion of our costs are fixed, even small declines in sales can significantly affect our operating results and cash flows. In connection with the crisis in the financial markets and its impact on the global economy, central banks and governments in the industrialized nations injected vast amounts of additional liquidity into the economy through credit and financial market support programs and increased government spending. These steps resulted in a significant increase in the monetary base and significantly higher fiscal deficits. Central banks appear to recognize that they must reduce the excess liquidity before one or more of the risks typically associated with excess market liquidity materialize. Similarly, governments are aware that they must address the significantly higher public debt ratios, either by increasing revenue or through budget cuts. If public spending is reduced too early or too quickly, however, the fragile economic recovery could be in danger. Conversely, if central banks and governments do not take timely and decisive steps to reduce excess liquidity and reign in government spending, inflation rates may increase significantly, thereby increasing the risk of creating new pricing "bubbles" in some market sectors and hampering future commercial and consumer spending and investment. If any of these potential developments materialize, demand for our passenger cars and commercial vehicles would likely decline, thereby negatively affecting our profitability and cash flows. Similarly, if severe deflation were to occur in some of our key markets, our business, future operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. A renewed decline in consumer demand and investment activity or a prolonged economic stagnation in Western Europe, the most important market for our products, could significantly adversely affect our businesses. We derive approximately half our revenue from our business in Western Europe. In 2009, the global recession had a significant negative affect on the Western European economies, resulting in significantly reduced demand for consumer goods and capital equipment. Even though sales of passenger cars were aided by government-sponsored car-scrap incentives, these incentives primarily benefited the compact and micro-compact car segments and had virtually no slowing effect on the sales declines in the luxury car segment. At year end 2009, the major Western European economies began to show signs of modest improvement, although overall demand remains substantially lower compared to pre-recession levels. A relapse into recession or a prolonged stagnation in the Western European economies or in the industries in which we operate could result in a further 5 decline in consumer demand and investment activity. Such a decline could be exacerbated by a prolonged continuation or worsening of the tight credit markets, resulting in lower consumer and investor confidence. In some Western European countries, for example in Germany, the economic effect of restrictions in the credit markets may be even more pronounced since small and medium sized companies, which depend on readily available bank loans, represent a significant portion of total economic activity in those countries. If any of these risks materialize, sales of our passenger cars and commercial vehicles in Western Europe could experience significant declines, thereby adversely affecting our profitability and cash flows. Our business in Western Europe could be further impacted if business conditions deteriorate due to the structural weakness of some European economies, the spillover effects of a renewed weakness in other major economies or a further significant appreciation of the euro. A continuation or worsening of the tightness of the credit markets in the U.S. could result in a renewed decline in demand for consumer products and capital investment, which could affect our sales of automotive products in the U.S., and potentially other markets, as well as our profitability and cash flows. The United States is an important market for our products. Despite a modest recovery in the second half of 2009, the U.S. economy continues to experience tight credit markets, negatively affecting consumer spending and capital investment. In 2010, U.S. credit markets also may be adversely affected by a rise in defaults on consumer and commercial loans. Vast fiscal stimulus packages and a rising money supply have increased further the risk of a potential future economic downturn, potentially giving rise to a renewed decline in investment and private consumption in the U.S. Any of these developments could negatively affect sales of our passenger cars and commercial vehicles in the U.S. market and our profitability and cash flows. In addition, the U.S. economy continues to require significant capital inflow from non-U.S. investors to finance the current account deficit. A renewed decline in demand for U.S. dollar denominated investments (which could also be caused by considerable shifts of global currency reserve portfolios) could lead to a further and uncontrolled depreciation of the U.S. dollar, which would adversely affect our currency transaction risk, thereby negatively impacting our passenger car sales into the U.S. and the profitability of our Mercedes-Benz Cars segment. Because of the global importance of the U.S. economy and the existing interdependencies between the United States economy and other major economies throughout the world, any renewed significant economic downturn in the United States would likely also adversely affect Western European and other world markets. A sustained slowdown or economic downturn in Asian economies could delay our plans for expansion in Asian markets and intensify competitive pressures. During 2009, the major Asian economies remained relatively stable compared to the U.S. and Western European economies, primarily as a result of solid economic growth in China and India. In China, vast fiscal stimulus packages and a rising money and credit supply have increased the risk of a potential future economic downturn. A significant decline in economic activity in these countries or in other major Asian economies could negatively affect the future business prospects of our subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and sales of our Mercedes-Benz passenger cars in that region. An economic downturn in Asia, particularly in China or India, could also delay our long-term strategic expansion plans in those increasingly important markets. Moreover, if economic conditions in Asia were to deteriorate, especially if coupled with depreciating Asian currencies, then Asian competitors with excess capacity might intensify their efforts to export vehicles to North America and Western Europe. This would not only intensify competition for market share, but also increase further the existing pressure on margins within the automotive industry. Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by economic or political change in some regions. We, in particular our Daimler Trucks segment, our Daimler Buses segment, and our Daimler Financial Services segment, have significant operations in several Latin American countries and in Turkey. Some of these countries may experience severe economic or political change, including currency fluctuations, social unrest or 6 instability in the governance regime, which could adversely affect our investments as well as local demand in those and neighboring countries, thereby negatively affecting our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, a substantial decline in raw material prices could have a significant adverse effect on the economic outlook of some emerging markets, for example, Russia and Brazil, whose economic growth depends to a large degree on exports of raw materials. As a result, our capital investments and sales of our automotive products in those countries could be negatively affected. Protectionist trade policies could negatively affect our business in several markets. Demand for motor vehicles could also be affected by adverse developments in the political and regulatory environment in the markets in which we operate. For example, a discord in international trade relations and the implementation of new tariff or non-tariff trade barriers could negatively affect our global sales, production and procurement activities as well as expansion plans in affected areas. The proliferation of bilateral free trade agreements between third party countries could negatively affect our position in those foreign markets, especially in Asia. Industry and Business Overcapacity and intense competition in the automotive industry create pricing pressure and could force further cost reductions which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. Overcapacity and intense price competition in the automotive industry could continue to force manufacturers of passenger cars and commercial vehicles, including us, to decrease production, reduce production capacity or increase sales incentives, each of which would be costly and therefore could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. For example, the global economic slowdown that began towards the end of 2008 and continued into 2009 has caused a significant decline in demand for passenger cars and commercial vehicles in many geographic markets, which further increased overcapacity and intensified price competition in the automotive industry. If the weakness of the automotive markets continues, additional capacity adjustments or pricing measures could become necessary. In that regard, the discontinuation of the government-sponsored car-scrap and other incentives offered in certain Western European countries in 2009 could have an overall chilling effect on those automobile markets in 2010, potentially resulting in a significant decline in future passenger car sales. Even though in Western Europe the primary beneficiaries of those incentives were the compact and micro compact car market segments, there can be no assurance that any decline would be limited to those product segments. Our ability to improve or even maintain our profitability depends, among other things, on maintaining competitive cost structures and introducing attractive and fuel efficient new products. If we are unable to continue to provide competitive pricing, customers may elect to purchase competitors' products and our future profitability and cash flows may suffer. For example, some U.S. vehicle manufacturers received financial support from government sources or emerged from reorganization proceedings with a lower cost base, thereby enabling these manufacturers to improve their profitability or offer their products at lower prices. In addition, significant discounts and other sales incentives have become increasingly common in many automotive markets, including Western Europe, also as a consequence of the government sponsored car-scrap bonus programs. Sales incentives in the new vehicle business also influence the price level of used vehicles, which could adversely affect the profitability of our used vehicle sales and, indirectly, the profitability of our future new vehicle sales. A permanent shift in consumer preference could limit our ability to sell our traditional product lines at current volume levels and affect our profitability in general. In the recent past, there were indications in several geographic markets that consumer preference may have begun to shift towards smaller, more fuel efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. A general shift in consumer preference toward those vehicles could negatively affect our ability to sell large or medium size luxury passenger cars at current volume levels. As a result, we may be forced to lower prices or increase sales incentives 7 on these products. Both, lower volume sales and lower prices could have a negative effect on our future financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In addition, we may be forced to adjust production capacity and further increase efficiency, which could result in significant additional costs, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations and cash flows. Conversely, if we are unable to adjust permanently our production capacity and cost structures to changed business conditions, including a permanent shift of consumer preference towards smaller, lower margin vehicles, our profitability and cash flows may be negatively impacted. The future profitability of our Daimler Trucks segment depends in part on the successful implementation of the business optimization and realignment plans of our subsidiaries Daimler Trucks North America and Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation. In 2008, the board of management of Daimler AG approved a plan to optimize and reposition the business operations of Daimler Trucks North America (DTNA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group. In addition, in May 2009, our board of management decided on a major realignment of our subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Bus and Truck Corporation (MFTBC). The future profitability and cash flows of our Daimler Trucks segment depend in part on the successful implementation of these plans. For further information on the measures initiated at DTNA and MFTBC, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Daimler Trucks" in "