Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in conjunction with the other information contained in this report. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Decreases in North American construction and industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Our general rental and trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities and our traffic control equipment is principally used in connection with the construction or repair of roads and bridges and similar infrastructure projects. Weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in construction or industrial activity or a reduction in infrastructure projects, may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues and gross profit margins to be reduced. We have identified below certain factors that may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: • weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; • an increase in the cost of construction materials; • sluggishness in government spending for roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects; • an increase in interest rates; • adverse weather conditions which may temporarily affect a particular region; or • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. We expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term, due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. These factors include: • seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; 9 Table of Contents • completion of acquisitions; • changes in the amount of revenue relating to renting traffic control equipment, since revenues from this equipment category tend to be more seasonal than the rest of our business; • changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; • changes in government spending for infrastructure projects and other non-residential construction such as hospitals and schools; • changes in demand for our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • changes in the interest rates applicable to our floating rate debt; • cost fluctuations, such as the recent increases in the cost of oil, steel and employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; • if we determine that a potential acquisition will not be consummated, the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to such transaction (such as financing commitment fees, merger and acquisition advisory fees and professional fees) previously capitalized; or • the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges as described below or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, store divestitures, consolidations or closings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, the impairment of assets or the buy-out of equipment leases. We are highly leveraged, which subjects us to various risks. At both December 31, 2005 and 2004, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.2 billion, including approximately $222 million of subordinated convertible debentures (also referred to as QUIPs securities). Our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. For example, it will or could: • require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes; • constrain our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or • make it difficult for us to cope with a downturn in our business or a decrease in our cash flow. Further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • seeking additional capital; • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. At December 31, 2005, including the effect of our interest rate swap and cap agreements, we had 10 Table of Contents approximately $1.3 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. This $1.3 billion represents approximately 45 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our QUIPs securities. See Item 7A – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. We will be unable to file our delinquent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q by the end of the extension period granted by holders of our bonds, which will give our bondholders the right to declare an event of default. We are party to various indentures under which an aggregate of approximately $2.3 billion of securities (the “Notes”) were outstanding at December 31, 2005. These instruments require us to timely file required annual and other periodic reports. Holders of the requisite majorities of our Notes previously agreed to amendments to allow us until March 31, 2006 to file our annual report on Form 10-K for 2004 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for 2005 interim periods. We are currently preparing our reports on Form 10-Q for 2005 interim periods. Although we will not be in a position to file these reports by March 31, 2006, we expect to file these reports within the next 30 days. The failure to file these reports will not automatically result in an event of default under our Note indentures. However, either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25 percent of the principal amount of the Notes issued under each indenture will have the right to notify the Company of its nonperformance and declare an event of default. If a notice of default satisfying the requirements of the applicable indenture were to be duly delivered, the Company would have no less than 30 days to cure the default. If the Company does not cure the default within the applicable period, then either the trustee or the holders of not less than 25 percent of the principal amount of the Notes issued under such indenture would have the right to declare the principal amount and all accrued interest under such securities due and payable, unless a waiver is obtained from holders of at least a majority of the principal amount of such securities. We have obtained an amendment to our senior secured credit facility, which, among other things, waives any default from the delay in filing certain SEC reports and allows us until April 28, 2006 to file our annual report on Form 10-K for 2004 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for 2005 interim periods. If the Company were not to file such reports by April 28, 2006, the Company would be required to obtain an additional extension or be in immediate default under the senior secured credit facility. If our bondholders (from whom we have not sought any waiver or amendment) declare an event of default, the waiver will nevertheless continue until April 28, 2006. In addition, the amendment to our Senior Credit Facility limits our ability to make borrowings under the facility to amounts necessary to fund obligations to be paid in the ordinary course during the one-week period following the applicable borrowing. If the events described above were to occur, we might be unable to refinance our debt, whether through the capital markets or otherwise, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we could not refinance our debt, we may be unable to meet our payment obligations unless we engage in an extraordinary transaction, including an asset sale, and any such transaction might have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Further, if we are unable to repay or refinance our debt, as it becomes due, we could be forced to restructure our obligations or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, or an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding may be brought against us. If we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings. Under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (a) the interest coverage ratio, (b) the ratio of funded debt to cash flow, (c) the ratio of senior secured debt to tangible assets and (d) the ratio of senior secured debt to cash flow. If we are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our senior secured credit facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our senior secured credit facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we 11 Table of Contents would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. In addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our senior secured credit facility as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. In September 2005, we completed a consent solicitation of our outstanding notes and convertible securities in which we amended the indentures governing these securities to waive any defaults related to the delay in filing our annual and quarterly reports for periods ended after September 30, 2004 with the SEC and allow the Company until March 31, 2006 to file the late SEC filings. In addition, in 2005 we amended our senior secured credit facility to waive any defaults related to the delay in making certain SEC filings and allow the Company until March 31, 2006 to file the late SEC filings, and in March 2006 we amended our senior secured credit facility again to waive any defaults related to the delay in making those SEC filings and allow the Company until April 28, 2006 to file the late SEC filings. As described above, we have not filed our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for quarters ending in 2005 with the SEC. Our inability to comply with any covenants could require us to solicit consents to another amendment to the indentures governing our outstanding notes and convertible securities and/or amend our senior secured credit facility again. Otherwise, as described above, our bondholders could declare an event of default, and following the expiration of any grace or cure period for such event of default, the waiver under our senior secured credit facility would terminate and our senior lenders could declare an event of default. In addition to the risks described above with respect to non-compliance with covenants in agreements governing our debt, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. For instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. These covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our credit facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, making acquisitions, opening new rental locations and refinancing existing indebtedness. We may not have successfully remediated previously identified material weaknesses in our internal controls and we may identify additional material weaknesses in the future. As described below under Item 9A, we have in the past had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and as of December 31, 2005 have a material weakness in our financial close process. We have taken actions to remediate all material weaknesses that we previously identified and we believe that we have successfully remediated all material weaknesses other than the weakness in our financial close process. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken and will take to remediate previously identified weaknesses will be sufficient or that we will not identify additional weaknesses in the future. Additionally, even if we believe we have effective control over financial reporting, the process for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting requires subjective judgments and the application of standards that are relatively new and subject to questions of interpretation. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our auditors will agree with our assessment. If either we or our auditors ultimately conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the perception of our company may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. 12 Table of Contents We are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the SEC. As previously reported, the Company is the subject of a non-public, fact-finding inquiry by the SEC that appears to relate to a broad range of the Company’s accounting practices and does not seem to be confined to a specific time period. In August 2004, we issued a press release and filed a Form 8-K disclosing the existence of the SEC inquiry. In March 2005, our board of directors formed the Special Committee of independent directors to review matters related to the SEC inquiry. Our board of directors received and acted upon findings of the Special Committee in January 2006. We are cooperating with the SEC in its ongoing inquiry. However, we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC inquiry, whether the SEC will bring any proceeding relating to the Company or when this matter might be resolved. This matter has the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: • we are likely to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with responding to the inquiry, regardless of its outcome; • responding to the inquiry has in the past diverted and is likely to continue to divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; and • if the SEC does determine to bring a proceeding involving us, depending on its outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts and/or take significant corrective actions, our results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. In addition, regardless of the outcome, the publicity surrounding the inquiry and the potential risks associated with the inquiry could negatively impact the perception of our company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. Our senior management is required to devote significant time and attention to matters arising from the SEC inquiry. Our senior management has devoted a significant amount of time to restating our financial statements, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures and responding to the SEC inquiry and review by the Special Committee of our board of directors discussed above and elsewhere in this report. If our senior management is unable to devote sufficient time in the future toward managing our existing business operations and developing and executing our growth strategy, we may not be able to remain competitive and our revenues and gross margins may decline. We are subject to certain ongoing class action lawsuits. Three class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company, as described in greater detail under Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. All three of the complaints allege, among other things, that (i) certain of the Company’s SEC filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased the Company’s securities and (ii) the conduct in connection therewith violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, SEC Rule 10b-5 and, in the case of the individual defendants, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses. We intend to defend against these actions vigorously. However, we do not know what the outcome of these proceedings will be and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. Further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. If we are ultimately required to pay 13 Table of Contents significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We have received a comment letter from the SEC that contains comments that are unresolved. As described below in Item 1B, Unresolved Staff Comments, we received comments from the SEC to our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods in 2004. These comments are unresolved because we have been focused on (1) cooperating with the ongoing SEC inquiry and review of the Special Committee, (2) reviewing and restating our financial statements and (3) preparing our annual report for 2004, our quarterly reports for 2005 and this annual report. However, our restatements for customer relationships and equipment revenue recognition as well as the reclassification of the buy-out of an operating lease reflected in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report reflect these comments. We will continue to work with the SEC to resolve these comments and, while we do not currently anticipate any additional restatements will result from the resolution of these comments, we cannot assure you that this will be the case. We have made numerous acquisitions, which entail certain risks. We have grown in part through acquisitions and may continue to do so. We will consider potential acquisitions of varying sizes and may, on a selective basis, pursue acquisitions or consolidation opportunities involving other public companies or large privately-held companies. It is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. The making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company with our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; and • loss of key employees of the acquired company. We expect to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient to fund future acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing and, consequently, our indebtedness may increase as we implement our growth strategy. Goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. If the fair value of the goodwill should drop below the recorded value, we would be required to write-off the excess goodwill. On December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had on our balance sheet goodwill of $1.3 billion, which represented approximately 25 percent and 26 percent, respectively, of our total assets at each such date. This goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of the net assets of those businesses. Of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet at December 31, 2005, 93 percent is associated with our general rentals segment and 7 percent is associated with our trench safety, pump and power segment. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. In general, this means that we must determine whether the fair value of the goodwill, calculated in accordance with applicable accounting standards, is at least equal to the recorded value shown on our balance sheet. If the fair value of the goodwill is less than the recorded value, we are required to write-off the excess goodwill as an operating expense. Our results in 2004 were adversely affected by the write-off of approximately $139 million of goodwill related to our traffic control segment as described below in this report, and our results in the preceding two years 14 Table of Contents were also adversely affected by significant goodwill write-offs. Based on the current performance of our general rentals and trench safety, pump and power segments, as well as current market conditions, we do not currently foresee any additional goodwill write-offs; however, we cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business or changes in market conditions will not necessitate additional write-offs in future periods. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. The equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our competitors primarily include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing competitors or from new companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing our rental volumes or depressing the prices that we can charge. Disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business and our insurance may not fully protect us. We are exposed to various possible claims relating to our business. These possible claims include those relating to (1) personal injury or death caused by equipment rented or sold by us, (2) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (3) employment related claims. Further, as described elsewhere in this report, a small number of shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. Currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. However, such insurance may not fully protect us for a number of reasons, including: • the insurance policies relating to our operations are subject to deductibles or self insured retentions of $2 million for general liability and automobile liability, on a per occurrence basis and $1 million per occurrence for workers’ compensation claims; • our Director & Officer Liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $3 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all Director and Officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; • we do not maintain coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required underground storage tank coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit that it provides; and • certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. If we are found liable for any significant claims that are not covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. It is possible that our insurance carrier may disclaim coverage for the class action and derivative lawsuits against us. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms, or not available at all. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. If we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to numerous laws governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. Under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (1) the costs of investigating and remediating and contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment regardless of fault and (2) fines and penalties for non-compliance. Our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. Based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. If we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected depending on the magnitude of the cost. Labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. We currently have approximately 1,000 employees that are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 12,400 employees that are not represented by unions; however, various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. Union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. In addition, these efforts could negatively affect our relationship with certain customers. Further, our labor costs could increase as a result of the settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. We have operations outside the United States. As a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. Our operations in Canada and Mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (1) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (2) the need to comply with foreign laws and (3) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments In January 2005, we received a comment letter from the SEC relating to our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the periods in 2004. We responded to these comments in February and March 2005 and on March 25, 2005, received a letter from the SEC with follow-up comments. These comments addressed accounting and disclosure matters including: (1) our use of the non-GAAP performance measure “adjusted income”; (2) the calculation of the minimum amounts paid by customers for each day’s usage as it pertains to our reported revenues; (3) our fixed price contracts and the accounting for those contracts using the percentage-of-completion method; (4) the valuation of rental equipment to be sold; (5) third-party appraisals of rental equipment acquired in purchase acquisitions; (6) the valuation of non-compete agreements, customer-related intangibles and existing leases in purchase acquisitions; (7) our assumptions to determine goodwill impairments; (8) the Company’s change in reportable segments and its effect on reporting information; (9) the assessment of success of the Company’s restructuring activities and calculation 16 Table of Contents of any net cost savings; (10) the classification of the buy-out of equipment operating leases and write-downs of notes receivable as non-operating expenses; (11) the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures and the disclosure of any deficiencies; (12) the allocation of goodwill upon the adoption of SFAS 142 and any subsequent adjustments to such allocation; and (13) the determination of insurance reserves. We have responded to all of these comments other than the comments relating to the valuation of existing leases in purchase acquisitions and adjustments to goodwill subsequent to its initial allocation upon the adoption of SFAS 142, which required additional review, because we have been focused on (1) cooperating with the on-going SEC inquiry and the review of the Special Committee, (2) reviewing and restating our financial statements; and (3) preparing our 2004 Annual Report, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for quarters ended in 2005 and this annual report for filing. Accordingly, the staff of the SEC has not yet indicated whether it will have further comment regarding these matters. However, our restatements for customer relationships and equipment rental revenue recognition as well as the reclassification of the buy-out of an operating lease reflected in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report reflect these comments. We will continue to work with the SEC to resolve any outstanding comments and we do not currently anticipate any additional restatements will result from the resolution of these comments, although there can be no assurance this will be the case. 17 Table of Contents 