Item 1A. Risk Factors Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. Decreases in North American construction and industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Our rental equipment is used primarily in the non-residential construction industry, which is cyclical in nature. Trench safety, pump and power equipment is principally used in connection with construction and industrial activities. Weakness in our end markets, such as a decline in construction or industrial activity, may lead to a decrease in the demand for our equipment or the prices that we can charge. Any such decrease could adversely affect our operating results by causing our revenues and gross profit margins to be reduced. The following factors, among others, may cause weakness in our end markets, either temporarily or long-term: • weakness in the economy or the onset of a recession; • an increase in the cost of construction materials; • an increase in interest rates; • adverse weather conditions which may temporarily affect a particular region; or • terrorism or hostilities involving the United States or Canada. Our operating results may fluctuate, which could affect the trading value of our securities. We expect that our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter or over the longer term due to a number of factors, which could adversely affect the trading value of our securities. These factors, in addition to general economic conditions, include: • seasonal rental patterns of our customers, with rental activity tending to be lower in the winter; • changes in the size of our rental fleet and/or in the rate at which we sell our used equipment; • changes in non-residential construction spending or government funding for infrastructure and other construction projects; • changes in demand for or utilization of our equipment or the prices we charge due to changes in economic conditions, competition or other factors; • commodity price pressures and the resultant increase in the cost of oil and steel to our equipment suppliers; • other cost fluctuations, such as costs for employee-related compensation and healthcare benefits; • completion of acquisitions, divestitures or recapitalizations; 9 • the need to charge against earnings any expenditures relating to a potential acquisition that we determine will not be consummated (such as financing commitment fees, merger and acquisition advisory fees and professional fees) previously capitalized; or • the possible need, from time to time, to record goodwill impairment charges or other write-offs or charges due to a variety of occurrences, such as the adoption of new accounting standards, rental location divestitures, consolidations or closings, restructurings, the refinancing of existing indebtedness, the impairment of assets or the buy-out of equipment leases. Our substantial debt exposes us to various risks. At December 31, 2007, our total indebtedness was approximately $2.7 billion, including $146 million of subordinated convertible debentures. Our substantial indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in a number of ways. For example, it will or could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing the funds available for other purposes or otherwise constrain our financial flexibility; • affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly since substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or • decrease our profitability or cash flow. Further, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • limiting our growth; • seeking additional capital; • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may continue to be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. A portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates that are linked to changing market interest rates. As a result, an increase in market interest rates would increase our interest expense and our debt service obligations. At December 31, 2007, including the effect of our interest rate swap agreements, we had approximately $1.7 billion of indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. This amount represents 65 percent of our total indebtedness, excluding our subordinated convertible debentures. In January 2008, we terminated interest rate swap agreements with an aggregate notional amount of $1.2 billion. Had these swaps been terminated as of December 31, 2007, 18 percent of our total debt (excluding our subordinated convertible debentures) would have been floating rate debt. See Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk for additional information related to interest rate risk. Notwithstanding our current indebtedness level, we believe we are able to incur and carry substantially more debt. If we do so, this could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial debt. We believe we would be able to incur and service substantial additional indebtedness in the future, should business conditions or decisions so warrant. Although the terms of our existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and 10 exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the substantial debt risks described above would increase. We are subject to an ongoing inquiry by the SEC. We are the subject of a non-public, fact-finding inquiry by the SEC that appears to relate to a broad range of the Company’s accounting practices prior to 2005 and does not seem otherwise to be confined to a specific time period. In August 2004, we issued a press release and filed a Form 8-K disclosing the existence of the SEC inquiry. In March 2005, our board of directors formed the Special Committee of independent directors to review matters related to the SEC inquiry. Our board of directors received and acted upon findings of the Special Committee in January 2006. The actions that we took with respect to the Special Committee’s findings and actions that we took with respect to certain other accounting matters, including the restatement of previously issued consolidated financial statements for 2003 and 2002, are discussed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 (our “2005 Form 10-K”). We are cooperating with the SEC in its ongoing inquiry. The U.S. Attorney’s office has also requested information from the Company informally and by subpoena about matters related to the SEC inquiry. We are also cooperating fully with this office. However, we cannot predict the outcome of these inquiries or when these matters might be resolved. In July 2007, the staff of the SEC advised us that it intends to seek commission authorization to seek injunctive and monetary relief against us, as well as to engage in settlement discussions with us. These matters have the potential to adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: • we are likely to continue to incur additional expenses in connection with responding to the inquiries, regardless of the outcome, including expenses related to our indemnification obligations to our directors, officers and certain current and former employees: • responding to the inquiries has in the past diverted and may continue to divert the time and attention of our management from normal business operations; • charges against, or settlements by, any of our former officers may generate negative publicity and adversely impact the perception of our company; and • if proceedings are brought, depending on the outcome, we may be required to pay fines and/or take corrective actions that would adversely affect our operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant amounts and/or take significant corrective actions, our results and liquidity could be materially adversely affected. In addition, regardless of the outcome, the publicity surrounding the inquiries and the potential risks associated with the inquiries could negatively impact the perception of the Company by investors and others, which could adversely affect the price of our securities, our access to the capital markets and/or our borrowing costs. We are subject to certain ongoing class action lawsuits. Multiple class action lawsuits have been filed against the Company, as described in greater detail under Item 3—Legal Proceedings. Three complaints were filed following our public announcement of the SEC inquiry. These complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that (i) certain of the Company’s SEC filings and other public statements contained false and misleading statements which resulted in damages to the plaintiffs and the members of the purported class when they purchased the Company’s securities and (ii) the conduct in connection therewith violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, SEC Rule 10b-5 and, in the case of the individual defendants, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The consolidated amended complaint asserts the same claims and seeks unspecified compensatory damages, costs and expenses. 11 Three complaints were filed following our November 14, 2007 announcement that affiliates of Cerberus had notified us that they were not prepared to proceed with the purchase of the Company on the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement. These complaints, which have been consolidated, allege, among other things, that certain of the Company’s filings with the SEC, including proxy materials in connection with the special meeting of stockholders, and other public statements contained false and misleading statements and/or material omissions relating to the contemplated merger with affiliates of Cerberus. Each action asserts claims under Sections 10(b) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and SEC Rules 10b-5 and 14a-9, and, in the case of the individual defendants, Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act. The complaints seek unspecified compensatory damages, costs, expenses and fees. We can give no assurances as to the outcome of these proceedings and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. Further, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense and indemnification costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. We are exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business, and our insurance may not fully cover them. We are in the ordinary course exposed to a variety of claims relating to our business. These claims include those relating to (i) personal injury or property damage involving equipment rented or sold by us, (ii) motor vehicle accidents involving our vehicles and our employees and (iii) employment related claims. Further, as described elsewhere in this report, several shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits have been filed against us. Currently, we carry a broad range of insurance for the protection of our assets and operations. However, such insurance may not fully cover these claims for a number of reasons, including: • our insurance policies, reflecting a program structure that we believe reflects market conditions for companies our size, are often subject to significant deductibles or self-insured retentions: $2 million per occurrence for each general liability or automobile liability claim, and $1 million per occurrence for each workers’ compensation claim; • our director and officer liability insurance policy has no deductible for individual non-indemnifiable loss coverage, but is subject to a $2.5 million deductible for company reimbursement coverage and all director and officer coverage is subject to certain exclusions; • we do not maintain stand-alone coverage for environmental liability (other than legally required underground storage tank coverage), since we believe the cost for such coverage is high relative to the benefit it provides; and • certain types of claims, such as claims for punitive damages or for damages arising from intentional misconduct, which are often alleged in third party lawsuits, might not be covered by our insurance. We establish and regularly evaluate our loss reserves to address business operations claims, or portions thereof, not covered by our insurance policies. To the extent that we are found liable for any significant claims that exceed our established levels of reserves, that cause us to significantly increase such reserves or that are not otherwise covered by insurance, our liquidity and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the class action and derivative lawsuits against us, and our indemnification costs associated with the SEC and U.S. Attorney’s office inquiries, may not be fully reimbursable or covered by insurance. It is also possible that some or all of the insurance that is currently available to us will not be available in the future on economically reasonable terms, or not available at all. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past, which entail certain risks, as do any growth initiatives, including additional acquisitions or consolidations, that we may make in the future. We have historically achieved a substantial portion of our growth through acquisitions. Although we have not made many acquisitions in recent years, and the making of additional acquisitions is not a planned portion of 12 our 2008 strategy, we are always open to considering potential acquisitions on a selective basis. From time-to-time we have also approached, or been approached, to explore consolidation opportunities with other public companies or large privately-held companies. Whether historical or in the future, it is possible that we will not realize the expected benefits from our acquisitions or that our existing operations will be adversely affected as a result of acquisitions. The making of acquisitions entails certain risks, including: • unrecorded liabilities of acquired companies that we fail to discover during our due diligence investigations; • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company within our existing operations or in maintaining uniform standards; • loss of key employees of the acquired company; • the failure to achieve anticipated synergies; and • strains on management and other personnel time and resources both to research and integrate acquisitions. We would expect to pay for any future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes and/or assumption of indebtedness. To the extent that our existing sources of cash are not sufficient in any instance, we would expect to need additional debt or equity financing, which involves its own risks. We have also spent resources and efforts, apart from acquisitions, in attempting to grow our business operations over the past few years. These efforts place strains on our management and other personnel and resources and require timely and continued investment in facilities, personnel and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support any of our growth initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing disproportionately to our incremental revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. Our capital stock and charter structures, as well as other factors, may affect the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the Company. Our Series C preferred and Series D preferred stock, as described in more detail in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, have certain rights that may impact the likelihood of a takeover or change of control of the Company. These provisions include the right of the holders of the Series C preferred to directly elect two directors to our board (subject to reduction if their holdings are reduced). They also include the rights of the holders of both the Series C and Series D preferred to have their shares redeemed at certain levels providing a guaranteed rate of return on their investment in the event of a board-approved change of control and at certain levels providing a higher guaranteed rate of return, and other rights (including the right to elect a majority of our board), in the event of a change of control that has not been approved by our board combined with a failure to offer the holders of the preferred stock the redemption rights they would have in an approved change of control context. As a result, the interests of the holders of our preferred stock may be different from, and affect, those of the holders of our common stock in a change of control scenario. In addition, as described in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, we maintain a stockholders’ rights plan and certain charter provisions, such as the inability for shareholders to act by written consent, that may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or delaying or preventing changes in control or management of the Company that are not approved by our board. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which under certain circumstances restricts the ability of a publicly held Delaware corporation to engage in a business combination such as a merger or sale of assets with any stockholder that, together with affiliates, owns 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, which similarly could prohibit or delay the accomplishment of a change of control transaction. 13 Our preferred stock and debt agreements limit our board’s ability to pay dividends, repurchase shares or otherwise return capital to our common stockholders. The terms of our Series C preferred and Series D preferred stock restrict us from paying or making any “extraordinary dividend” without the consent of the holders thereof. Generally, this limitation applies to any dividends made on, or tender offers made for, our common stock if the aggregate amount of such dividends and repurchases would exceed 5 percent of our market capitalization at the time of payment (tested on a rolling 12-month basis). If common stock repurchases are made other than by means of a tender offer, the limitation (inclusive of any common stock dividends and repurchases through tender offers) is 7.5 percent of our market capitalization (measured and tested the same way), which increases to a 10 percent limitation beginning in early 2009. Although currently less restrictive in the aggregate amount than the above-described provisions, the indentures governing our high-yield debt and the agreement governing our credit facility also contain restrictions on making what are known as “restricted payments”—which typically are defined to include most cash payments to common stockholders, whether through dividends or common stock repurchases. Turnover of members of our management and our ability to attract and retain key personnel may affect our ability to efficiently manage our business and execute our strategy. Our success is dependent, in part, on the experience and skills of our management team, and competition in our industry and the business world generally for top management talent is significant. Although we believe we generally have competitive pay packages, we can provide no assurances that our efforts to attract and retain senior management staff will be successful. Moreover, the termination of the Merger Agreement with Cerberus affiliates, the resulting drop in our stock price and our continued operation under the stewardship of an interim chief executive officer have created perceived uncertainties that may result in increased difficulties and expense in recruiting and retaining employees, particularly senior management. If we are unable to fill and keep filled all of our senior management positions, or if we lose the services of any key member of our senior management team and are unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely fashion, we may be challenged to effectively manage our business and execute our strategy. Our cost reduction programs may not achieve the cost savings and operational improvements and efficiencies we expect, and we may have to implement further cost reduction programs and incur additional related charges. In 2007, we implemented a workforce reduction program, a strategic sourcing initiative and other initiatives designed to reduce operating costs and increase organizational efficiencies. Though we have already realized substantial cost savings and operational improvements from these efforts, the extent to which we achieve our remaining and any additional goals will depend on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Even if we take all of the steps that we expect to take, we may not achieve the cost reduction and operational efficiencies we anticipate, the reductions and efficiencies we do achieve may not be realized on the timetable we anticipate and there may be productivity, revenue or other consequences resulting from such programs and initiatives that will adversely effect us. Therefore, the anticipated benefits of our existing and future cost saving initiatives may not be fully realized. If we are unable to satisfy the financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, our lenders could elect to terminate the agreements and require us to repay the outstanding borrowings, or we could face other substantial costs. Under the agreement governing our senior secured credit facility, we are required to, among other things, satisfy certain financial tests relating to: (a) the interest coverage ratio, (b) the ratio of funded debt to cash flow, (c) the ratio of senior secured debt to tangible assets and (d) the ratio of senior secured debt to cash flow. If we 14 are unable to satisfy any of these covenants, the lenders could elect to terminate our senior secured credit facility and/or other agreements governing our debt and require us to repay outstanding borrowings. In such event, unless we were able to refinance the indebtedness coming due and replace our senior secured credit facility and/or the other agreements governing our debt, we would likely not have sufficient liquidity for our business needs and we would be forced to adopt an alternative strategy as described above. Even if we adopt an alternative strategy, the strategy may not be successful and we may not have sufficient liquidity for our operations. In addition to financial covenants, we are subject to various other covenants in our senior secured credit facility as well as in the other agreements governing our debt, such as a requirement to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner. For example, when we were not current with our SEC periodic reports as a result of our restatement process described above, in 2005 we paid in excess of $34 million in consent solicitation fees with respect to our public debt indentures in order to address non-compliance with such a covenant. In addition to the risks with respect to covenant non-compliance, compliance with covenants may restrict our ability to conduct our operations. For instance, these covenants limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur indebtedness, make prepayments of certain indebtedness, pay dividends, make investments, create liens, make acquisitions, sell assets and engage in mergers and acquisitions. These covenants could adversely affect our operating results by significantly limiting our operating and financial flexibility. If we are unable to obtain additional capital as required, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business. If the cash that we generate from our business, together with cash that we may borrow under our credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility, is not sufficient to fund our capital requirements, we will require additional debt and/or equity financing. However, we may not succeed in obtaining the requisite additional financing on terms that are satisfactory to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we may be unable to fund the capital outlays required for the success of our business, including those relating to purchasing equipment, growth plans and refinancing existing indebtedness. Goodwill related to acquisitions represents a substantial portion of our total assets. If the fair value of the goodwill should drop below the recorded value, we would be required to write-off the excess goodwill. On December 31, 2007, we had goodwill of $1.4 billion on our balance sheet, which represented approximately 23 percent of our total assets as of such date. This goodwill is an intangible asset and represents the excess of the purchase price that we paid for acquired businesses over the estimated fair value of the net assets of those businesses. Of the goodwill recorded on our balance sheet at December 31, 2007, 94 percent is associated with our general rentals segment and 6 percent is associated with our trench safety, pump and power segment. We are required to test our goodwill for impairment at least annually. Our results in 2004 were adversely affected by the write-off of approximately $139 million of goodwill related to our discontinued traffic control operations, and our results in the preceding two years were also adversely affected by significant goodwill write-offs. Based on the current performance of our general rentals and trench safety, pump and power segments, as well as current market conditions, we do not currently anticipate significant goodwill write-offs. However, in previous years we recorded significant goodwill write-offs, and we cannot be certain that a future downturn in the business or changes in market conditions will not necessitate additional write-offs in future periods. Our industry is highly competitive, and competitive pressures could lead to a decrease in our market share or in the prices that we can charge. The equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. Our competitors include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations, regional competitors which operate in one or more states, public companies or divisions of public companies, and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We may in the future encounter increased competition from our existing 15 competitors or from new companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by, among other things, decreasing our rental volumes, depressing the prices that we can charge or increasing our costs to retain employees. Disruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations. Our information technology systems facilitate our ability to monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. Any disruptions in these systems or the failure of these systems to operate as expected could, depending on the magnitude of the problem, adversely affect our operating results by limiting our capacity to effectively monitor and control our operations and adjust to changing market conditions. We are subject to numerous environmental and safety regulations. If we are required to incur compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate such issues as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. Under these laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating any contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we sent hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. Our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use hazardous materials to clean and maintain equipment, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from underground and above-ground storage tanks located at certain of our locations. Based on conditions currently known to us, we do not believe that any pending or likely remediation and/or compliance effort will have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot be certain, however, as to the potential financial impact on our business if new adverse environmental conditions are discovered or environmental and safety requirements become more stringent. If we are required to incur environmental compliance or remediation costs that are not currently anticipated, our liquidity and operating results could be adversely affected depending on the magnitude of such costs. Labor disputes could disrupt our ability to serve our customers and/or lead to higher labor costs. We currently have approximately 800 employees that are represented by unions and covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 10,100 employees that are not represented by unions. Various unions periodically seek to organize certain of our nonunion employees. Union organizing efforts or collective bargaining negotiations could potentially lead to work stoppages and/or slowdowns or strikes by certain of our employees, which could adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. In addition, these efforts could negatively affect our relationship with certain customers. Further, our labor costs could increase as a result of the settlement of actual or threatened labor disputes or an increase in the number of our employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. We believe that one of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. Accordingly, we could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or significant increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs to us of transporting equipment from one branch to another branch or one region to another region. A significant or protracted disruption of fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 We have operations outside the United States. As a result, we may incur losses from currency conversions and have higher costs than we otherwise would have due to the need to comply with foreign laws. Our operations in Canada and Mexico are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates, (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions, and (iii) the possibility of political or economic instability in foreign countries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 