RISK FACTORS This section describes many of the risks that could affect AngloGold Ashanti. There may, however, be additional risks unknown to AngloGold Ashanti and other risks, currently believed to be immaterial, that could turn out to be material. Additional risks may arise or become material subsequent to the date of this document. These risks, either individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the group’s business, financial results and the price of its securities. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition as a result of factors that impact the gold mining industry generally. Commodity market price fluctuations could adversely affect the profitability of operations. AngloGold Ashanti’s revenues are primarily derived from the sale of gold and, to a lesser extent, uranium, silver and sulphuric acid. The compay’s current policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices and not to enter into price hedging arrangements. The market prices for these commodities fluctuate widely. These fluctuations are caused by numerous factors beyond the company’s control. For example, the market price of gold may change for a variety of reasons, including: • speculative positions taken by investors or traders in gold; • monetary policies announced or implemented by central banks, including the U.S. Federal Reserve; • changes in the demand for gold as an investment or as a result of leasing arrangements; • changes in the demand for gold used in jewellery and for other industrial uses, including as a result of prevailing economic conditions; • changes in the supply of gold from production, divestment, scrap and hedging; • financial market expectations regarding the rate of inflation; • the strength of the U.S. dollar (the currency in which the gold price trades internationally) relative to other currencies; • changes in interest rates; • actual or anticipated sales or purchases of gold by central banks and the International Monetary Fund; • gold hedging and de-hedging by gold producers; • global or regional political or economic events; and • the cost of gold production in major gold producing countries. The market price of gold has been and continues to be significantly volatile. During 2014, the gold price traded from a low of $1,141 per ounce to a high of $1,382 per ounce. On 23 March 2015, the afternoon price for gold on the London Bullion Market was $1,186 per ounce. The price of gold is often subject to sharp, short-term changes; for example, during the period from Friday, 12 April 2013, through to Monday, 15 April 2013, the price of gold dropped by $228 per ounce. During 2012 and 2013, a correlation existed between the central banks’ policies and the price of gold, with the price falling at the prospect of the end of quantitative easing in some of the main economies. For example, on 19 June 2013, Chairman Ben Bernanke of the Federal Reserve announced that the Federal Reserve may begin reducing its quantitative easing programme in 2013. During the course of the following week, the price of gold fell to $1,180 per ounce, its lowest level in 34 months. Furthermore, in the week following Janet Yellen’s announcement of the end of the quantitative easing programme of the Federal Reserve on 29 October 2014, the price of gold reached its annual low of $1,141 per ounce. Any future announcements or proposals by the Federal Reserve, or any of its board members or regional presidents or other similar officials, relating to any such reduction, may materially and adversely affect the price of gold and, as a result, AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition and results of operations. 15 Like gold prices, gold demand can fluctuate materially from one year to the next, including in the countries that account for the highest gold consumption worldwide. For example, gold demand in China fell 38% in 2014 compared to 2013 according to the World Gold Council. Over the same period, demand for gold bars and coins fell by 50% both in China and in India. In China, the decline was due in part to the government’s anti-corruption programme, which put limited pressure on demand for gold ornaments and so-called “gift bars”. Whilst the considerable size of historical mined (i.e., above ground) stocks of the metal means that overall supply and demand of gold typically do not affect the gold price in the same manner or degree compared to other commodities, events that impact supply and demand may nonetheless affect gold’s market price. Demand for gold may be affected, in particular, by government policies, including taxes and duties. For example, over the course of 2013, the Indian Finance Ministry increased gold import duties from 2% to 10%, with the most recent increase to 10% occurring in August 2013. In addition, at least a fifth of gold imported into India must be exported. Such increases, and any similar import duty increases in India or other large gold importing countries, could adversely affect demand for, and consequently prices of, gold. Furthermore, the shift in demand from physical gold to gold-related investments and speculative instruments may exacerbate the volatility of the gold price. For example, in March 2015, the Finance Ministry in India, which overtook China as the world’s largest consumer of gold in 2014, announced the creation of sovereign gold bonds as an alternative to the purchase of physical gold. Slower consumption of physical gold in India, resulting from a move toward gold-tracking investments or otherwise, may have an adverse impact on global demand for, and prices of, bullion. A sustained period of significant gold price volatility may adversely affect the company’s ability to evaluate the feasibility of undertaking new capital projects or the continuity of existing operations, to meet its operational targets or to make other long-term strategic decisions. Lower and more volatile gold prices, together with other factors, have led AngloGold Ashanti to alter its expansion and development strategy and consider ways to align its asset portfolio to take account of such expectations and trends. As a result, the company may decide to curtail or temporarily or permanently shut down certain of its exploration and production operations, which may be difficult and costly to effect. A further sustained decrease in the price of gold could also have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition and results of operations, as it may be unable to quickly adjust its cost structure to reflect the reduced gold price environment. Mines with marginal headroom may be subject to decreases in value that are other than temporary, which may result in impairment losses. During 2013, the company reviewed the carrying value of its mining assets (including ore stockpiles), goodwill and intangibles and, based on revised forecast gold prices, booked a charge of $3,245 million (2014: $12 million) in relation to impairments, derecognition and revaluation of net realisable value of its mining assets (including ore stockpiles), goodwill and intangibles. The market value of gold inventory may be reduced and marginal stockpile and heap leach inventories may be written down to net realisable value or may not be processed further as it may not be economically viable at lower gold prices. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti is obliged to meet certain financial covenants under the terms of its borrowing facilities and its ability to continue to meet these covenants could be adversely affected by a further sustained decrease in the price of gold. The use of lower gold prices in reserve calculations and life of mine plans could also result in material impairments of the company’s investment in mining properties or a reduction in its Ore Reserves estimates and corresponding restatements of its Ore Reserves and increased amortisation, reclamation and closure charges. The spot price of uranium has been volatile in past years. During 2014, the price varied between a low of approximately $28 per pound and a high of $44 per pound. On 23 March 2015, the spot price of uranium was $40 per pound. Uranium prices can be affected by several factors, including demand for nuclear reactors, uranium production shortfalls and restocking by utilities. Events like those surrounding the earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in 2011 can also have a material impact on the price of and demand for uranium. The price of silver has also experienced significant fluctuations. For example, from a high of $32 per ounce in January 2013, the price of silver declined to a low of $18 per ounce by June 2013. Additionally, after climbing back to $22 per ounce in February 2014, the price declined further to a low of $15 per ounce in November 2014. Factors affecting the price of silver include investor demand, physical demand for silver bars, industrial and retail off-take, and silver coin minting. On 23 March 2015, the price of silver was $17 per ounce. If revenue from sales of gold, uranium, silver or sulphuric acid falls below their respective cost of production for an extended period, AngloGold Ashanti may experience losses and curtail or suspend some or all of its exploration projects and existing operations or sell underperforming assets. Declining commodities prices may also force a reassessment of the feasibility of a particular project or projects, which could cause substantial delays or interrupt operations until the reassessment can be completed. 16 Foreign exchange fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. Gold is principally a U.S. dollar-priced commodity and most of the company’s revenues are realised in, or linked to, U.S. dollars, whilst production costs are largely incurred in the local currency where the relevant operation is located. Given the company’s global operations and local foreign exchange regulations, some of its funds are held in local currencies, such as the South African rand, Ghanaian cedi, Brazilian real, Argentinean peso and the Australian dollar. The weakness of the U.S. dollar against local currencies results in higher production costs in U.S. dollar terms. Conversely, the strengthening of the dollar lowers local production costs in U.S. dollar terms. From time to time, AngloGold Ashanti may implement currency hedges intended to reduce exposure to changes in the foreign currency exchange. Such hedging strategies may not however be successful, and any of AngloGold Ashanti unhedged exchange payments will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. Exchange rate movements may have a material impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results. For example, the company estimates that a 1% strengthening of all of the South African rand, Brazilian real, the Argentinean peso or the Australian dollar against the U.S. dollar will, other factors remaining equal, result in an increase in total cash costs of approximately $6 per ounce, or approximately 1%, of the company’s total cash costs. The profitability of operations and the cash flows generated by these operations are significantly affected by fluctuations in input production prices, many of which are linked to the prices of oil and steel. Fuel, energy and consumables, including diesel, heavy fuel oil, chemical reagents, explosives, tyres, steel and mining equipment consumed in mining operations form a relatively large part of the operating costs and capital expenditure of any mining company. AngloGold Ashanti has no influence over the cost of these consumables, many of which are linked to some degree to the price of oil and steel. Whilst, from time to time, AngloGold Ashanti may implement diesel hedges intended to reduce exposure to changes in the oil price, such hedging strategies may not always be successful, and any of the company’s unhedged diesel consumption will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. The price of oil has been volatile, fluctuating between $55 and $115 per barrel of Brent Crude in 2014. As of 23 March 2015, the price of oil was at $54 per barrel of Brent Crude. AngloGold Ashanti estimates that for each U.S. dollar per barrel rise or fall in the oil price, other factors remaining equal, the total cash costs of all its operations change by approximately $0.78 per ounce. The cash costs of certain of the company’s mines, particularly Sadiola, Siguiri, Geita, Cripple Creek & Victor, and Tropicana are most sensitive to changes in the price of oil. Furthermore, the price of steel has also been volatile. Steel is used in the manufacture of most forms of fixed and mobile mining equipment, which is a relatively large contributor to the operating costs and capital expenditure of a mine. For example, the price of flat hot rolled coil (North American Domestic FOB) steel traded between $608 per tonne and $696 per tonne in 2014. On 23 March 2015, the price of flat hot rolled coil (North American Domestic FOB) was $481 per tonne. Fluctuations in oil and steel prices have a significant impact on operating costs and capital expenditure estimates and, in the absence of other economic fluctuations, could result in significant changes in the total expenditure estimates for new mining projects or render certain projects non-viable. Energy cost increases and power fluctuations and stoppages could adversely impact the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Increasing global demand for energy, concerns about nuclear power and the limited growth of new supply are impacting the price and supply of energy. The transition of emerging markets to higher energy consumption, carbon taxation as well as unrest and potential conflict in the Middle East, amongst other factors, could result in increased demand or constrained supply and sharply escalating oil and energy prices. AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations are substantially dependent upon electrical power generated by local utilities or by power plants situated at some of its operations. The unreliability of these local sources of power can have a material effect on the company’s operations, as large amounts of power are required for exploration, development, extraction, processing and other mining activities on the company’s properties. 17 In South Africa, the company’s operations are dependent on electricity supplied by one state-owned power generation company, Eskom. Electricity is used for most business and safety-critical operations that include cooling, hoisting and dewatering. Loss of power can therefore impact production, employee safety and prolonged outages could lead to flooding of workings and ore sterilisation. In 2008, Eskom and the South African government declared a national emergency and warned that they could no longer guarantee the availability of electricity due to a national supply shortage blamed on coal supply shortages and unplanned generation-set outages as a result of maintenance backlog and asset age. The entire country went into a programme of rolling blackouts and AngloGold Ashanti and other mining companies operating in South Africa were forced in late January until mid-March of 2008 to temporarily suspend mining operations. A warning of the “very high” risk of blackouts was reissued at the start of 2011 and each year since. On 20 February 2014, Eskom declared a power emergency pursuant to its regulatory protocols to protect the national electricity grid. The power emergency was caused by the loss of additional generating units, reduced imports resulting from failure of power lines from Cohara Bassa in Mozambique and the extensive use of emergency reserves. Eskom alerted key industrial customers, including AngloGold Ashanti, asking them to reduce their load by a minimum of 10% during critical periods. Since February 2014, AngloGold Ashanti has reduced its electricity consumption in South Africa by more than 10% measured in Gigawatt usage. Then, in November 2014, Eskom reintroduced a schedule of rolling blackouts, or “load shedding”. Whilst a national energy conservation programme is in place, Eskom cannot guarantee that there will be no power interruptions and is again facing very tight supply reserve margins in 2015, which can be expected to continue for many years to come. Furthermore, the power supply to the company’s South African operations has been and may be curtailed or interrupted again in the future for reasons other than government action. For example, lightning or other damage to power stations can also result in power interruptions at the company’s operations. In this regard, AngloGold Ashanti’s two main operational sites in the West Wits region in South Africa had all main power interrupted between 13 March 2013 and 15 March 2013 after a fire caused by lightning damaged a transformer at a main regional substation. Eskom and the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (“NERSA”) recognise the need to increase electricity supply capacity and a series of tariff increases and proposals have been enacted to assist in the funding of this expansion. NERSA originally approved an increase of 24.8% for 2010, 25.8% for 2011, 25.9% for 2012, and 16.0% for 2013. The actual increase implemented for 2012 was lowered to 16.09% after government intervention. In 2013, NERSA announced that Eskom would be allowed to increase electricity tariffs for the five-year period that began in April 2013 at an average yearly increase of 8%, which was half of that sought by the utility in its application. In October 2014, NERSA granted a 12.69% increase in electricity prices with effect from April 2015. There can be no assurance as to the existence or nature of any government intervention with respect to tariff increases in the future. Other difficulties at Eskom, relating to a large financial deficit, may result in additional tariff increases. As energy represents a large proportion of the company’s operating costs in South Africa, these increases have had, and any future increases will have, a materially adverse impact on the cash costs of its South African operations. The company has also identified a risk of energy shortages in Argentina, Brazil, Ghana and the DRC. All the company’s mining operations in Ghana depend on hydroelectric power supplied by the state-controlled Volta River Authority (“VRA”), which is supplemented by thermal power from the Takoradi plant and a smaller unit at Tema. Ghana has a major power generation deficit that has resulted in significant load shedding across the country. For example, the company experienced extended power interruptions in Ghana in the first quarter of 2014, which limited access to higher grade areas. During periods of below average inflows from the Volta reservoir, electricity supplies from the Akosombo Dam, the VRA’s primary generation source, may be curtailed as occurred in 1998, 2006 and 2007. During periods of limited electricity availability, the grid is subject to disturbances and voltage fluctuations which can damage equipment. Recent disruptions in natural gas supply from Nigeria, via the West Africa Gas Pipeline, has led to some reduction in thermal generation capacity and the use of more expensive light crude oil which is putting upward pressure on power tariffs. In the past, the VRA has obtained power from neighbouring Côte d’Ivoire, which has intermittently experienced political instability and civil unrest. AngloGold Ashanti negotiates rates directly with the VRA and the VRA may not agree to a satisfactory rate during future rounds of negotiations. In Brazil, severe water shortages from low rainfall have been experienced in 2014 and 2015 and are expected to adversely affect hydro-electrical power generation. The company’s mining operations in Guinea, Tanzania and Mali are dependent on power supplied by outside contractors and supplies of fuel are delivered by road. Power supplies have been disrupted in the past, resulting in production losses due to equipment failure. Increased energy prices could negatively impact operating costs and cash flow of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. 18 Global economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of operations. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Despite signs of economic recovery in certain geographic markets, global financial markets have experienced considerable volatility from uncertainty surrounding the level and sustainability of the sovereign debt of various countries. Concerns remain regarding the sustainability of the European Monetary Union and its common currency, the Euro, in their current form, as well as the negative impacts of the downgrade of the sovereign credit rating of the Republic of South Africa in 2012, 2013 and 2014. These conditions and other disruptions to international credit markets and financial systems caused a loss of investor confidence and resulted in widening credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Although aggressive measures taken by governments and central banks have recently corresponded with signs of economic recovery, any such recovery may remain limited in geographic scope. A significant risk also remains that this recovery could be slow or that the global economy could quickly fall back into an even deeper and longer lasting recession or even a depression. Recently, the credit ratings of some of the largest South African banks were downgraded by a major credit rating agency. Any significant weakening of the South African banking system could have a negative effect on the overall South African economy. Global economic turmoil, or the expectation that economic turmoil could worsen, could have follow-on effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s business that include inflationary cost pressures, interest rate fluctuations and commodity market fluctuations. Other effects that could negatively affect AngloGold Ashanti’s financial results and results of operations include, for example: • the insolvency of key suppliers or contractors, which could result in contractual breaches and a supply chain breakdown; • the insolvency of one or more joint venture partners, which could result in contractual breaches and disruptions at the operations of the company’s joint ventures; • changes in other income and expense, which could vary materially from expectations, depending on gains or losses realised on the sale or exchange of financial instruments and impairment charges that may be incurred with respect to investments; • AngloGold Ashanti’s defined benefit pension fund may not achieve expected returns on its investments, which could require the company to make substantial cash payments to fund any resulting deficits; • a reduction in the availability of credit, which may make it more difficult for the company to obtain financing for its operations and capital expenditures or make that financing more costly; • exposure to the liquidity and insolvency risks of the company’s lenders and customers; and • impairments. In addition to the potentially adverse impact on the profitability of the company’s operations, any deterioration in or increased uncertainty regarding global economic conditions may increase volatility or negatively impact the market value of its securities. Inflation may have a material adverse effect on results of operations. Many of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are located in countries that have experienced high rates of inflation during certain periods. It is possible that significantly higher future inflation in the countries in which the company operates may result in an increase in operational costs in local currencies (without a concurrent devaluation of the local currency of operations against the dollar or an increase in the dollar price of gold). This could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Significantly higher and sustained inflation, with a consequent increase in operational costs, could result in the rationalisation (including closure) of higher cost mines or projects. Mining companies face many risks related to the development of mining projects that may adversely affect the company’s results of operations and profitability. Like other mining companies, AngloGold Ashanti’s profitability depends partly on the actual costs of developing and operating its mines, which may differ significantly from estimates determined at the time the relevant project was approved following completion of its feasibility study. Development of the company’s mining projects may also be subject to unexpected problems and delays that could increase the development and operating costs of the relevant project. In addition, a decrease in budgets relating to current or medium-term exploration and development could increase its development and operating costs in the long-term. AngloGold Ashanti’s decision to develop a mineral property is typically based on the results of a feasibility study. Feasibility studies estimate the expected or anticipated economic returns from the project. These estimates are based on assumptions regarding: • future prices of gold, uranium, silver and other metals; • future currency exchange rates; • tonnage, grades and metallurgical characteristics of ore to be mined and processed; 19 • anticipated recovery rates of gold, uranium, silver and other metals extracted from the ore; • anticipated capital expenditure and cash operating costs; and • required return on investment. Actual cash operating costs, production and economic returns may differ significantly from those anticipated by such studies and estimates. Operating costs and capital expenditures are to a significant extent driven by the cost of commodity inputs consumed in mining, including fuel, chemical reagents, explosives, tyres and steel, and also by credits from by-products, such as silver and uranium. They could also fluctuate considerably as a result of changes in the prices of mining equipment used in the construction and operation of mining projects. There are a number of uncertainties inherent in the development and construction of a new mine or the extension of an existing mine. In addition to those discussed above, these uncertainties include the: • timing and cost of construction of mining and processing facilities, which can be considerable; • availability and cost of mining and processing equipment; • availability and cost of skilled labour, power, water and transportation; • availability and cost of appropriate smelting and refining arrangements; • applicable requirements and time needed to obtain the necessary environmental and other governmental permits; and • availability of funds to finance construction and development activities. The remote location of many mining properties, permitting requirements and/or delays, third-party legal challenges to individual mining projects and broader social or political opposition to mining may increase the cost, timing and complexity of mine development and construction. New mining operations could experience unexpected problems and delays during the development, construction, commissioning and commencement of production. AngloGold Ashanti may prove unable to successfully develop the La Colosa and Gramalote projects and the Nuevo Chaquiro deposit that is part of the Quebradona project in Colombia, as well as other potential exploration sites due to difficulties that could arise in relation to, for example, social and community opposition, litigation, ore body grades, definition of adequate reserves and resources, and the time taken to prove project feasibility that could result in the expiry of permits. For example, on 11 March 2013, Cortolima, a regional environmental authority in Colombia, issued an injunction against AngloGold Ashanti’s Colombian subsidiary, AngloGold Ashanti Colombia S.A. (“AGAC”), alleging that the subsidiary was operating without proper permits and was engaging in activity that was harmful to the environment. Furthermore, at around the same period in time, access to an AngloGold Ashanti drilling site was blockaded by residents of a nearby community. AGAC’s subsequent request to have the injunction annulled was denied by the Director of Cortolima on 27 May 2013, and as a result, the injunction remains in place. While the injunction remains in place, AGAC is unable to engage in certain activities related to the La Colosa project. In July 2013, local residents of a nearby community, as well as local and regional government, voted in a non-binding referendum to prevent certain mining activities in the Piedras municipality. Local authorities have attempted to introduce regulatory measures seeking to implement such preventative measures and AGAC has initiated legal proceedings challenging such measures. As a result, protracted litigation may ensue, which could adversely affect the company’s ability to conduct any mining or related activities in that area. Refer “Item 8A: Legal Proceedings – Colombia”. Accordingly, AngloGold Ashanti’s future development activities may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production, or one or more new production sites or facilities may be less profitable than anticipated or may be loss-making. The company’s operating results and financial condition are directly related to the success of its project developments. A failure in the company’s ability to develop and operate mining projects in accordance with, or in excess of, expectations could negatively impact its results of operations, as well as its financial condition and prospects. Mining companies face uncertainty and risks in exploration, feasibility studies and other project evaluation activities. AngloGold Ashanti must continually replace Ore Reserves depleted by mining and production to maintain or increase production levels in the long term. This is undertaken by exploration activities that are speculative in nature. The ability of the company to sustain or increase its present levels of gold production depends in part on the success of its projects and it may be unable to sustain or increase such levels. Feasibility studies and other project evaluation activities necessary to determine the current or future viability of a mining operation are often unproductive. Such activities often require substantial expenditure on exploration drilling to establish the presence, extent and grade (metal content) of mineralised material. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes feasibility studies to estimate the technical and economic viability of mining projects and to determine appropriate mining methods and metallurgical recovery processes. These activities are undertaken to estimate the Ore Reserve. 20 Once mineralisation is discovered, it may take several years to determine whether an adequate Ore Reserve exists, during which time the economic feasibility of the project may change due to fluctuations in factors that affect both revenue and costs, including: • future prices of metals and other commodities; • future foreign currency exchange rates; • the required return on investment as based on the cost and availability of capital; and • applicable regulatory requirements, including environmental, health and safety matters. Feasibility studies also include activities to estimate the anticipated: • tonnages, grades and metallurgical characteristics of the ore to be mined and processed; • recovery rates of gold, uranium and other metals from the ore; and • capital expenditure and cash operating costs. These estimates depend on assumptions made on available data. Ore Reserve estimates are not precise calculations and depend on the interpretation of limited information on the location, shape and continuity of the mineral occurrence and on available sampling results. Further exploration and feasibility studies can result in new data becoming available that may change previous Ore Reserve estimates and impact the technical and economic viability of production from the project. Changes in the forecast prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of reserves resulting in revisions to previous Ore Reserve estimates. These revisions could impact depreciation and amortisation rates, asset carrying amounts, provisions for closure, restoration and environmental rehabilitation costs. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes annual revisions to its Ore Reserve estimates based upon actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology, model revisions and fluctuations in production, forecasts of commodity prices, economic assumptions and operating and other costs. These factors may result in reductions in Ore Reserve estimates, which could adversely affect life-of-mine plans and consequently the total value of the company’s mining asset base. Ore Reserve restatements could negatively affect the company’s results of operations, as well as its financial condition and prospects. The increased overall demand for gold and other commodities, combined with a declining rate of discovery of new gold Ore Reserve in recent years, has resulted in the accelerated depletion of the existing Ore Reserve across the global gold sector. AngloGold Ashanti therefore faces intense competition for the acquisition of attractive mining properties. From time to time, the company evaluates the acquisition of an Ore Reserve, development properties or operating mines, either as stand-alone assets or as part of existing companies. AngloGold Ashanti’s decision to acquire these properties has been based on a variety of factors, including historical operating results, estimates and assumptions regarding the extent of the Ore Reserve, cash and other operating costs, gold prices, projected economic returns and evaluations of existing or potential liabilities associated with the relevant property and its operations and how these factors may change in future. Other than historical operating results, these factors are uncertain and could have an impact on revenue, cash and other operating costs, as well as the process used to estimate the Ore Reserve. As a result of these uncertainties and declining grades, the company’s exploration and acquisitions may not result in the expansion or replacement of current production or the maintenance of its existing Ore Reserve net of production or an increase in Ore Reserve. AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition are directly related to the success of its exploration and acquisition efforts and the ability to replace or increase the existing Ore Reserve as it is depleted. If the company is not able to maintain or increase its Ore Reserve, its results of operations as well as its financial condition and prospects could be adversely affected. Mining companies face many risks related to their operations that may adversely impact cash flows and overall profitability. Gold mining is susceptible to events that may adversely impact a mining company’s ability to produce gold and meet production and cost targets. These events include, but are not limited to: • environmental, as well as health and safety, incidents during exploration, production or transportation resulting in injury, loss of life or damage to equipment; • ground and surface water pollution; • social or community disputes or interventions; • security incidents; • surface or underground fires or explosions; • electrocution; • falls from heights and accidents relating to mobile machinery, including shaft conveyances and elevators, drilling blasting and mining operations; 21 • labour force disputes and disruptions; • loss of information integrity or data; • activities of illegal or artisanal miners; • shortages in material and equipment; • mechanical failure or breakdowns and ageing infrastructure; • failure of unproven or evolving technologies; • energy and electrical power supply interruptions or rationing; • unusual or unexpected geological formations, ground conditions, including lack of mineable face length and ore-pass blockages; • water ingress and flooding; • process water shortages; • metallurgical conditions and gold recovery; • unexpected decline of ore grade; • unanticipated increases in gold lock-up and inventory levels at heap-leach operations; • fall-of-ground accidents in underground operations; • cave-ins, sinkholes, subsidence, rock falls, rock bursts or landslides; • failure of mining pit slopes, heap-leach facilities, water or solution dams, waste stockpiles and tailings dam walls; • legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions; • safety-related stoppages; • gold bullion or concentrate theft; • corruption, fraud and theft; • allegations of human rights abuses; • seismic activity; and • other natural phenomena, such as floods, droughts or weather conditions, potentially exacerbated by climate change. Seismic activity is of particular concern in underground mining operations, particularly in South Africa due to the extent and extreme depth of mining, and also in Australia and Brazil due to the depth of mining and residual tectonic stresses. Despite modifications to mine layouts and support technology, as well as other technological improvements employed with a view to minimising the incidence and impact of seismic activity, seismic events have caused death and injury to employees and contractors and seismic activity may do so again in the future, and have in the past, and may again result, in concomitant safety-related stoppages. Seismic activity may also cause a loss of mining equipment, damage to or destruction of mineral properties or production facilities, monetary losses, environmental damages and potential legal liabilities. As a result, these events may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, in August 2014, mining operations at the Great Noligwa and Moab Khotsong mines were suspended following a magnitude 5.3 earthquake. Operations at Mine Waste Solutions were also suspended and the Kopanang mine was taken offline for a limited time as a safety precaution. The company estimates that the earthquake resulted in lost output of approximately 30,000oz of gold. Also, in early 2011, mining of the Ventersdorp Contact Reef shaft pillar at Tau Tona was suspended following a significant seismic event. New equipment had to be purchased and the shutdown contributed to the decline in the operational output of the mine as compared to the previous year. In the past, floods have also disrupted the operations of some of the company’s mines. For example, unprecedented heavy rains in February and March 2011 in Australia flooded the Sunrise Dam Gold Mine and forced a temporary shutdown of operations. The flood event impacted underground production for approximately four months and open pit production for approximately six months. Despite the shutdown, full costs were incurred as the mining contractors worked on remedial activities to repair damage and rehabilitate flooded areas. The considerable remedial work required adversely impacted cash costs per ounce and the impact of the flood event and the pit wall failure together significantly reduced planned production at the plant. Mining companies’ operations are vulnerable to infrastructure constraints. Mining, processing, development and exploration activities depend on adequate infrastructure. Reliable rail, ports, roads, bridges, power sources, power transmission facilities and water supply are critical to the company’s business operations and affect capital and operating costs. These infrastructures and services are often provided by third parties whose operational activities are outside the control of the company. Interferences in the maintenance or provision of infrastructure, including unusual weather phenomena, sabotage and social unrest could impede the company’s ability to deliver its products on time and adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Establishing infrastructure for the company’s development projects requires significant resources, identification of adequate sources of raw materials and supplies, and necessary cooperation from national and regional governments, none of which can be assured. AngloGold Ashanti has operations or potential development projects in countries where government-provided infrastructure may be inadequate and regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure may be uncertain, which could adversely impact the efficient operation and expansion of its business. AngloGold Ashanti may not secure and maintain access to adequate infrastructure in the future, or it may not do so on reasonable terms. Mining companies face strong competition. The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases. AngloGold Ashanti competes with other mining companies and individuals for specialised equipment, components and supplies necessary for exploration and development, for mining claims and leases on exploration properties and for the acquisition of mining assets. These competitors may have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than AngloGold Ashanti. Competition may increase AngloGold Ashanti’s cost of acquiring suitable claims, properties and assets. Mining companies are subject to extensive health and safety laws and regulations. AngloGold Ashanti’s gold mining operations are subject to extensive health and safety laws and regulations in every jurisdiction in which it operates. These laws and regulations are, along with international and industry standards, designed to protect and improve the safety and health of employees and require the company to undertake and fund extensive compliance measures. From time to time, new or updated health and safety laws, regulations and standards are introduced and may be more stringent than those to which AngloGold Ashanti is currently subject. Should compliance with these laws, regulations and standards require a material increase in expenditure or material changes or interruptions to operations or production, including as a result of any failure to comply with applicable regulations, the company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti continues to implement its enhanced safety programme, which could result in additional costs for the company. In some of the jurisdictions in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, the government enforces compulsory shutdowns of operations to enable investigations into the cause of accidents. Certain of the company’s operations have been temporarily suspended for safety reasons in the past. In South Africa, so-called “Section 54 safety stoppages” have become a significant issue as an enforcement mechanism used by the Department of Mineral Resources Mining Inspectorate whose inspectors routinely issue such notices. For example, in 2014, 57 notices were issued that had a material adverse impact on production at the company’s mines. Safety-related stoppages resulted in the direct loss of 72,900, 72,400, 32,800 and 47,100 ounces of gold production from the South African region operations during 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 respectively. AngloGold Ashanti’s reputation could be damaged by any significant governmental investigation or enforcement of health and safety laws, regulations or standards. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Mining companies are increasingly required to operate in a sustainable manner and to provide benefits to affected communities. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in legal suits, additional operational costs, investor divestment and loss of “social licence to operate”, and could adversely impact mining companies’ financial condition. As a result of public concern about the perceived ill effects of economic globalisation, businesses in general and large multinational mining corporations in particular face increasing public scrutiny of their activities. These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that whilst they seek a satisfactory return on investment for shareholders, human rights are respected and other social partners, including employees, host communities and more broadly the countries in which they operate, also benefit from their commercial activities. Such pressures tend to be particularly focused on companies whose activities are perceived to have, or have, a high impact on their social and physical environment. The potential consequences of these pressures and the adverse publicity in cases where companies are believed not to be creating sufficient social and economic benefit may result in additional operating costs, reputational damage, active community opposition, allegations of human rights abuses, legal suits and investor withdrawal. 23 Existing and proposed mining operations are often located at or near existing towns and villages, natural water courses and other infrastructure. As the impacts of dust generation, waste storage, water pollution or shortage, in particular, may be immediate and directly adverse to those communities, poor environmental management practices, or adverse changes in the supply or quality of water can result in community protest, regulatory sanctions or ultimately in the withdrawal of community and government support for company operations. For example, opposition to mining activity in the Tolima province of Colombia, which hosts the La Colosa deposit, has centred on the perception that large-scale mining activity will have a detrimental impact on the region’s river systems. Mining operations must be designed to minimise their impact on such communities and the environment, either by changing mining plans to avoid such impact, by modifying operations or by relocating the affected people to an agreed location. Responsive measures may also include the full restoration of livelihoods of those impacted. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti is obliged to comply with the terms and conditions of all the mining rights it holds. In this regard the Social and Labour plan provisions of its mining rights in South Africa must make provision for local economic development (“LED”) programmes. The LED programmes must take into account the key economic activities of the area in which AngloGold Ashanti operates its mines, the impact its mines will have on the local and labour-sending communities, various infrastructure and poverty eradication projects its mines may be supporting in connection with integrated development plans in the areas its mines operate and also must provide for measures that assist in addressing housing and living conditions of its employees. In addition, as AngloGold Ashanti has a long history of mining operations in certain regions, issues may arise regarding historical as well as potential future environmental or health impacts in those areas. For example, certain parties, including non-governmental organisations, community groups and institutional investors, have raised concerns and, in the case of some individuals in Obuasi, threatened or commenced litigation, relating to air pollution or surface and groundwater quality, amongst other issues, in the area surrounding the company’s Obuasi and Iduapriem mines in Ghana, including potential impacts to local rivers and wells used for water from heavy metals, arsenic and cyanide as well as sediment and mine rock waste. Disputes with surrounding communities may also affect mining operations, particularly where they result in restrictions of access to supplies and to mining operations. The miners’ access to land may be subject to the rights or asserted rights of various community stakeholders, including indigenous people. Access to land and land use is of critical importance to the company for exploration and mining, as well as for ancillary infrastructure. In some cases, AngloGold Ashanti has had difficulty gaining access to new land because of perceived poor community compensation practices. For example, compensation remains a significant area of concern in Siguiri in Guinea. In 2011, a violent community protest interrupted operations for three days, which contributed to the operation’s decline in production as compared to 2010. Delays in projects attributable to a lack of community support can translate directly into a decrease in the value of a project or into an inability to bring the project to production. The cost of measures and other issues relating to the sustainable development of mining operations could place significant demands on personnel resources, could increase capital and operating costs and could have an adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations. Mining companies are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions in which they operate, in addition to international standards. These regulations and standards establish limits and conditions on a miner’s ability to conduct its operations and govern, amongst other things, extraction, use and conservation of water resources; air emissions (including dust control); water treatment and discharge; regulatory and community reporting; clean-up of contamination; community health; and the generation, transportation, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes, such as reagents, radioactive materials and mine tailings. The cost of compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expected to continue to be significant to AngloGold Ashanti. AngloGold Ashanti could incur fines, penalties and other sanctions, clean-up costs and third-party claims for personal injury or property damage, suffer reputational damage, or be required to install costly pollution control equipment or to modify or suspend operations, as a result of actual or alleged violations of environmental laws and regulations or the terms of AngloGold Ashanti’s permits. For example, the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (“Ghana EPA”) permit for AngloGold Ashanti’s operations at Obuasi expired on 31 March 2014. AngloGold Ashanti filed its application for permit renewal in September 2013, 6 months prior to the expiry date, as required by law, by submitting an Environment Management Plan (EMP), but the Ghana EPA did not issue a new permit before the expiry date, citing uncertainties about the future of the Obuasi operation. AngloGold Ashanti has been in communication with the Ghana EPA regarding this issue. Concurrently, as a result of the complex challenges faced by the Obuasi mine, the company has adopted a new approach to securing the long term future of the mine. As part of this effort, on 18 July 2014 it submitted an Amendment to Programme of Mining Operations (APMO), which details 24 technical, environmental, financial and social details around the transition of its Obuasi operation, to the Government of Ghana and key regulators, that was approved subject to certain conditions. An amended EMP to supersede the one submitted in September 2013 was submitted at the same time to the Ghana EPA but no response has as yet been received. The company can give no assurance that the EMP will be approved in the forms submitted or at all. In addition, unknown environmental hazards may exist on the company’s properties which may have been caused by previous owners or operators. An incident at AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could lead to obligations to remediate environmental contamination and claims for property damage and personal injury from adjacent communities and other consequences. Incidents at AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and other companies’ operations could result in the tightening of regulatory requirements and restrictions applicable to AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations. For example, in 2010, AngloGold Ashanti’s Obuasi mine in Ghana suspended gold processing operations for five days to implement a revised water management strategy aimed at reducing contaminants contained in its discharge. Brief stoppages after environmental incidents, such as pipeline failures, have occurred more recently at that mine. Furthermore, following a temporary suspension of operations at the Iduapriem mine, the company, with the approval of the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency, constructed an interim tailings storage facility for tailings deposition for a year whilst a new tailings storage facility was being constructed. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may also result in the suspension or revocation of operating permits. AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to obtain and maintain permits and to successfully operate in particular communities may be adversely impacted by real or perceived effects on the environment or human health and safety associated with AngloGold Ashanti’s or other mining companies’ activities. For example, in Colombia, various plaintiffs, including associations that represent local communities, brought legal proceedings against AngloGold Ashanti Colombia S.A. (“AGAC”) alleging that AGAC violated applicable environmental laws in connection with the La Colosa project. If the plaintiffs were to prevail, AGAC’s three core concession contracts relating to the La Colosa project may be cancelled. AGAC would be required to abandon the La Colosa project and all other existing mining concession contracts and pending proposals for new mining concession contracts of AGAC, though not those of other companies of the AngloGold Ashanti group operating in Colombia. In addition, AGAC would be banned from doing business with the Colombian government for a period of five years. See “Item 8A: Legal Proceedings”. Environmental laws and regulations are continually changing and are generally becoming more stringent. Changes to AngloGold Ashanti’s environmental compliance obligations or operating practices could adversely affect the company’s rate of production and revenue. Variations in laws and regulations, assumptions made to estimate liabilities, standards or operating procedures, more stringent emission or pollution thresholds or controls, or the occurrence of unanticipated conditions, may require operations to be suspended or permanently closed, and could increase AngloGold Ashanti’s expenses and provisions. These expenses and provisions could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, the use of sodium cyanide in metallurgical processing is under increasing environmental scrutiny and is prohibited in certain jurisdictions. As there are few, if any, effective substitutes in extracting gold from the ore, any ban or material restrictions on the use of sodium cyanide in mining operations in the jurisdictions where AngloGold Ashanti conducts its operations could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, leaks or discharges of sodium cyanide or other hazardous materials could result in liabilities for clean-up or personal injury that may not be covered by insurance. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations are heavily dependent upon access to substantial volumes of water for use in the mining and extractive processes and typically are subject to water-use permits that govern usage and require, amongst other things, that mining operations maintain certain water quality upon discharge. Water quality and usage are areas of concern globally, such as with respect to the company’s mining operations in Ghana and South Africa and its exploration projects in Colombia, where there is significant potential environmental and social impact and a high level of stakeholder scrutiny. Any failure by the company to secure access to suitable water supplies, or achieve and maintain compliance with applicable requirements of the permits or licenses, could result in curtailment or halting of production at the affected operation. Incidents of water pollution or shortage can, in certain cases, lead to community protest and ultimately to the withdrawal of community and government support for AngloGold Ashanti’s operations. A failure by the company to comply with water contamination rehabilitation directives may result in further, more stringent, directives being issued against the company, which may, in some cases, result in a temporary or partial shutdown of some of the company’s operations. Water scarcity has been identified as a significant risk at AngloGold Ashanti’s U.S. operation in particular. Production at the Cripple Creek & Victor Gold Mining Company’s Cresson mine was adversely affected by a severe drought from 2010 through 2013, when the lack of water reduced percolation through the heap-leach pad, which curtailed production and productivity. 25 Mining and mineral processing operations generate waste rock and tailings. The impact of dust generation, breach, leak, or failure of a waste rock or tailings storage facility, can be significant. An incident at AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could lead to, amongst others, obligations to remediate environmental contamination and claims for property damage and personal injury from adjacent communities. Incidents at other companies’ operations could result in governments tightening regulatory requirements and restricting mining activities. Mining companies are required by law to close their operations at the end of the mine life and rehabilitate the impacted areas. Estimates of the total ultimate closure, reclamation and rehabilitation costs for gold mining operations are significant and based principally on life-of-mine profiles, changing inflation and discount rate assumptions, changing infrastructure and facilities design and current legal and regulatory requirements that may change materially. Environmental liabilities are accrued when they become known, probable and can be reasonably estimated. Increasingly, regulators are seeking security in the form of cash collateral or bank guarantees in respect of environmental obligations, which could have an adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s discounted environmental rehabilitation liability was $851 million as at 31 December 2014 compared with $728 million as at 31 December 2013. The changes were a consequence of a number of factors, most notably a decrease in the group discount rate used in the calculation of the obligation and changes in the timing of the future cash outflows relating to the obligation. The group discount rate decreased as a result of adjustments to both country, e.g., South Africa, and company credit ratings. Costs associated with rehabilitating land disturbed by mining processes and addressing environmental, health and community issues are estimated and financial provision made based upon current available information. Estimates may, however, be insufficient and further costs may be identified at any stage that may exceed the provisions that AngloGold Ashanti has made. Any underestimated or unidentified rehabilitation costs would reduce earnings and could materially and adversely affect the company’s asset values, earnings and cash flows. Further, sudden changes in a life of mine plan or the accelerated closure of a mine may give rise to the recognition of liabilities that are not anticipated. Compliance with emerging climate change regulations could result in significant costs and climate change may present physical risks to a mining company’s operations. Greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) are emitted directly by AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, as well as by external utilities from which AngloGold Ashanti purchases electricity. Currently, a number of international and national measures to address or limit GHG emissions, including the Bali Action Plan and the Durban Platform, are in various phases of discussion or implementation in the countries in which the company operates. In particular, the Durban Platform commits all parties to the conference to develop a global mitigation regime which could take effect in 2020, with the specific terms of that legally binding accord, including individual targets, to be finalised by 2015. These, or future, measures could require AngloGold Ashanti to reduce its direct GHG emissions or energy use or to incur significant costs for GHG emissions permits or taxes or have these costs or taxes passed on by electricity utilities which supply the company’s operations. AngloGold Ashanti also could incur significant costs associated with capital equipment, GHG monitoring and reporting and other obligations to comply with applicable requirements. In February 2012, the South African Minister of Finance announced the intention to introduce a carbon tax in 2015, which was followed by the publication of a carbon tax policy paper in 2013. However, the Minister of Finance later announced that the carbon tax would not be introduced until 2016. Other countries, including Brazil and the United States, have passed or are considering GHG trading or tax schemes, and/or other regulation of GHG emissions, although the precise impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s operations cannot yet be determined. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could be exposed to a number of physical risks from climate change, such as changes in rainfall rates, rising sea levels, reduced water availability, higher temperatures and extreme weather events. Events or conditions such as flooding or inadequate water supplies could disrupt mining and transport operations, mineral processing and rehabilitation efforts, create resource shortages or damage the company’s property or equipment and increase health and safety risks on site. Such events or conditions could have other adverse effects on the company’s workforce and on the communities around its mines, such as an increased risk of food insecurity, water scarcity and prevalence of disease. Compliance with “conflict minerals” and “responsible gold” legislation and standards could result in significant costs. More stringent standards relating to “conflict minerals” and “responsible” gold that include the: U.S. Dodd-Frank Act, European proposal for self-certification for importers of gold, Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Due Diligence Guidelines for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas, World Gold Council Conflict Free Gold Standard and London Bullion Market Association Responsible Gold Guidance have been introduced. 26 Any such legislation and standards may result in significant costs to ensure and demonstrate compliance, and difficulties in the sale of gold emanating from certain areas. The complexities of the gold supply chain, especially as they relate to “scrap” or recycled gold, and the fragmented and often unregulated supply of artisanal and small-scale mined gold are such that there may be significant uncertainties at each stage in the chain as to the provenance of the gold. As a result of the uncertainties in the process, the costs of due diligence and audit, or the reputational risks of defining their product or a constituent part as containing a “conflict mineral” would be too burdensome for the company’s customers. Accordingly, manufacturers may decide to switch supply sources or to substitute gold with other minerals not covered by the initiatives. This could have a material negative impact on the gold industry, including on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial results. Mining operations and projects are vulnerable to supply chain disruption with the result that operations and development projects could be adversely affected by shortages of, as well as the lead times to deliver, strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and development projects could be adversely affected by both shortages and long lead times to deliver strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment and metallurgical plant, as well as transportation delays. Import restrictions, such as those introduced by the Argentine government since 2011, can also delay the delivery of parts and equipment. In the past, the company and other gold mining companies experienced shortages in critical consumables, particularly as production capacity in the global mining industry expanded in response to increased demand for commodities. AngloGold Ashanti has also experienced increased delivery times for these items. Shortages have resulted in unanticipated price increases and production delays and shortfalls, resulting in a rise in both operating costs and in the capital expenditure necessary to maintain and develop mining operations. Individually, AngloGold Ashanti and other gold mining companies have limited influence over manufacturers and suppliers of these items. In certain cases there are a limited number of suppliers for certain strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or metallurgical plant who command superior bargaining power relative to the company. The company could at times face limited supply or increased lead time in the delivery of such items. For example, during 2012, supply of caustic soda was delayed in the Continental Africa Region. In addition, the unreliability of oxygen and lime supply similarly affected production at the Vaal River and West Wits surface operations in South Africa throughout 2011 and poor availability of drill rigs, heavy machinery and fleet equipment hampered underground drilling and overall operational performance at the Serra Grande mine in Brazil in 2011. The company’s procurement policy is to source mining and processing equipment and consumables from suppliers that meet its corporate values and ethical standards although risk remains around the management of ethical supply chains. In certain locations, where a limited number of suppliers meet these standards, additional strain is placed on the supply chain, thereby increasing the cost of supply and delivery times. Furthermore, supply chains and rates can be impacted by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, extreme weather patterns and climate change, as well as other phenomena that include unrest, strikes, theft and fires. For example, a three-week transport strike in 2012 delayed the supply of consumables in South Africa. Although potential supply chain disruption in Mali, as a result of the coup d’état and the proliferation of armed combat in 2012 and 2013, has been avoided to date by well managed consumable stock holding, any return to instability or armed conflict in the country could present material supply chain difficulties. Moreover, although potential gold doré export disruptions at Geita, the result of an attempted gold heist, and in Mali, following the closure of Bamako International Airport, were minimised with the introduction of alternative transportation arrangements, such alternatives may not be available upon the occurrence of similar or more severe situations in the future. In February 2013, a fire destroyed the heavy mining equipment stock of spares and components at the Geita gold mine. If AngloGold Ashanti experiences shortages, or increased lead times in the delivery of strategic spares, critical consumables, mining equipment or processing plant, the company might have to suspend some of its operations and its results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Siguiri mine has been impacted as a result of the Ebola virus outbreak since 2014 in Western Africa, where certain crisis management measures were implemented. Whilst no employees have been infected and operations have continued despite the outbreak, five people in the village at Siguiri have been infected since the outbreak started. These cases were detected by authorities and contained through a quarantine programme. In addition to an extensive education campaign, the mine conducted daily screenings at its entrances, including as daily questionnaire to check the status of staff and family members. Nevertheless, crisis management measures may be insufficient to contain current or future outbreaks. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti cannot guarantee that the supply chain and/ or operations will not be adversely affected by the Ebola outbreak and that there will be no knock-on effects such as severe food shortages and social impact. Export restrictions could similarly adversely impact the company’s financial condition and results of operations. 27 Concerns about the integrity or reliability of the London Gold Fix, even if eventually shown to be without merit, could adversely affect investor interest in gold and confidence in the gold market AngloGold Ashanti relies on a liquid market for gold in which trades are made relative to a benchmark known as the London Gold Fix (the “Fix”) set by a group of five fixing banks that match buy and sell orders. Following a series of allegations regarding the possible manipulation of the Fix by fixing banks, German and United Kingdom regulators are reviewing the fixing process. Separately, several lawsuits have been filed against fixing banks alleging that they have colluded to manipulate the gold benchmark price. Whilst AngloGold Ashanti has no role in the operation of the Fix and has no responsibility for the conduct of the market-makers in the gold market, if the integrity of the gold benchmark were to be undermined it could affect the gold market, resulting in reduced demand for the company’s gold, greater volatility in gold prices and less liquidity in the gold market. Diversity in interpretation and application of accounting literature in the mining industry may impact reported financial results. The mining industry has limited industry-specific accounting literature. As a result, there is diverse interpretation and application of accounting literature on mining-specific issues. AngloGold Ashanti, for example, capitalises drilling and costs related to defining and delineating a residual mineral deposit that has not been classified as a “Proven and Probable Reserve” at a development project or production stage mine. Some companies may, however, expense such costs. As and when this diverse interpretation and application is addressed, the company’s reported results could be adversely impacted should the adopted interpretation differ from the position it currently follows. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, standards, contractual obligations whether following a breach or breaches in governance processes or fraud, bribery and corruption may lead to regulatory penalties, loss of licences or permits, negative effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s reported financial results, and adversely affect its reputation. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations must comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws of the jurisdictions in which AngloGold Ashanti operates. There has been a substantial increase in the global enforcement of these laws and, recently, an increased focus on the actions of mining companies. Although AngloGold Ashanti has a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of violations of such laws, any violation could result in significant criminal or civil sanctions. Since the company operates globally in multiple jurisdictions, including those with less developed political and regulatory environments, and within numerous and complex frameworks, its governance and compliance processes may not prevent potential breaches of law, accounting principles or other governance practices. AngloGold Ashanti’s Code of Business Principles and Ethics and Policy on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, amongst other policies, standards and guidance, and training thereon may not prevent instances of unethical or unlawful behaviour, including bribery or corruption, nor may guarantee compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, and breaches not detected by management. Sanctions for failure by the company or others acting on its behalf to comply with these laws, regulations, standards and contractual obligations could include fines, penalties, imprisonment of officers, litigation, and loss of operating licences or permits, suspensions of operations and negative effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s reported financial results and may damage its reputation. Such sanctions could have a material adverse impact on the company’s financial condition and results of operations. Breaches in information technology security and violations of data protection laws may adversely impact AngloGold Ashanti’s business. AngloGold Ashanti maintains global information technology and communication networks and applications to support its business activities. The sophistication and magnitude of cybersecurity incidents are increasing and include malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorised access to data and other electronic security and protected information breaches that could lead to production downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, other manipulation or improper use of AngloGold Ashanti’s systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions. Information technology security processes may not prevent future malicious actions, denial-of-service attacks, or fraud, resulting in corruption of operating systems, theft of commercially sensitive data, misappropriation of funds and business and operational disruption. Material system breaches and failures could result in significant interruptions that could in turn affect AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results and reputation. 28 The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in South Africa, the United States and elsewhere are uncertain and evolving. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with AngloGold Ashanti’s data practices. Complying with these various laws is difficult and could cause the company to incur substantial costs or require it to change its business practices in a manner adverse to its business. Risks related to AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition as a result of factors specific to the company and its operations AngloGold Ashanti does not have any gold hedging instruments or long-term sales contracts, exposing the company to potential gains from subsequent commodity price increases but exposing it entirely to subsequent commodity price decreases. AngloGold Ashanti removed the last of its gold hedging instruments in October 2010 to provide greater participation in a rising gold price environment. As a result, AngloGold Ashanti no longer has any protection against declines in the market price of gold. A sustained decline in the price of gold could adversely impact the company’s operating results and its financial condition. Labour unrest, activism and disruptions (including protracted stoppages) could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s employees in South Africa, Ghana, Guinea and Argentina which individually produced approximately 29%, 10%, 7% and 7% respectively, of the company’s total revenue in 2014, are highly unionised and unions are active at some of its other operations. Trade unions, therefore, have a significant impact on the company’s labour relations, as well as on social and political reforms, most notably in South Africa. There is a risk that strikes or other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur at any of the company’s operations, particularly where the labour force is unionised or there is inter-union rivalry. Labour disruptions may be used to advocate labour, political or social goals in the future. For example, labour disruptions may occur in sympathy with retrenchments, strikes or labour unrest in other sectors of the economy and for political goals. Labour unrest in South Africa can also be fuelled by migrant labour conditions and mine worker debt levels. Furthermore, such labour disruptions may themselves affect or be perceived to affect local political and social stability. Acts of vandalism affecting mines and mine equipment are possible during periods of labour unrest. For example, following a wave of labour unrest and unprotected strike action that took place throughout the South African mining, transport and agricultural sectors since early August 2012, workers from AngloGold Ashanti’s Kopanang mine, three West Wits mines and the Vaal River region’s other operations engaged in unprotected strikes in September 2012. More than 100,000 miners were involved in the strikes across the mining sector during the last four months of 2012. Workers at AngloGold Ashanti’s mines in South Africa have also staged sit-ins which prompted the company to suspend operations at some of its mines. These work stoppages pose significant safety risks and operating challenges. The protracted period of inactivity caused by the strike, coupled by the depth of the affected mines, complicated the consequent ramping up of production following the termination of the strikes and resulted in a lengthened ramp-up period to ensure employee safety. The unprotected strike action at the South African operations had an adverse impact on the company’s third quarter results and significantly adversely impacted its fourth quarter results. The company estimates that the unprotected strike action cost approximately 235,000 ounces in lost production due to the work stoppages and the slow ramp-up to full production. In late April 2013, a number of workers at Moab Khotsong and all workers at Mponeng failed to report for their shifts in a dispute over Saturday working arrangements but returned soon after. Subsequently around 600 workers were dismissed for disciplinary reasons after the strikes. The Labour Court is currently reviewing some of these dismissals. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti experienced a 48-hour strike at its Vaal River operations in September 2013. In addition, the emergence of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (“AMCU”), a relative newcomer with respect to AngloGold Ashanti’s South African operations and the gold sector as a whole, impacted productivity in 2013, as employees changed union affiliations and rivalry with the established National Union of Mineworkers increased. This was evidenced during the first half of 2013 by sporadic, unprotected work interruptions at some operations and some incidents of violence and intimidation. A drive to increase AMCU membership at the company’s Vaal River operations resulting in the AMCU achieving a majority, as exists at West Wits, could increase the risk of industrial action. Lower production and payroll increases resulting from the labour disruptions have adversely impacted the financial performance of all South African operations, threatening viability in some cases, and similar disruptions in the future may have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, subsequent to the 2012 strikes, AngloGold Ashanti, along with its major gold-producing peers in South Africa, increased the entry-level pay of employees; established a new pay category for equipment operators; provided an allowance for rock-drill operators; and increased pay by 2% for most categories of workers. The net impact of the settlement on the payroll cost for AngloGold Ashanti is $16 million per annum. 29 In South Africa, amendments to labour legislation have been proposed, which, if implemented, may have negative consequences for the company. For example, the proposed amendment with respect to labour brokers could mandate that labourers who are provided by labour brokers to perform certain services for the company could be viewed as AngloGold Ashanti’s employees, which could increase its labour costs and reduce operational flexibility. In South Africa, the restructuring of mining operations that result in layoffs or redundancies are currently a highly contentious matter. Whilst the Department of Minerals and Energy does not have any statutory right on the basis of existing labour legislation to intervene in any such restructuring process, it may intervene by placing external pressure on mining companies in respect of the renewal or cancellation of their mining rights. On 10 February 2014 workers employed by a contractor at Sadiola and Yatela went on a five day strike demanding improved redundancy payments. On 25 March 2014, the company signed an agreement to increase social benefits for workers at these mines. Furthermore, between 18 July 2012 and 20 July 2012, fourteen employees went on strike at Sadiola. Following the strike, the company’s joint venture in Mali has been involved in legal proceedings against the workers, which are ongoing. Increased labour costs could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. Labour costs represent a substantial proportion of the company’s total operating costs and at many operations, including its South African, Ghanaian and Tanzanian operations, constitute the company’s single largest component of operating costs. Failing to obtain any simultaneous increase in productivity, any change to the company’s wage agreements or other factors that could increase labour costs may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. In South Africa, the established practice is to negotiate wages and conditions of employment with the unions every two years through the Chamber of Mines of South Africa. South African employment law sets out minimum terms and conditions of employment for employees, which form the benchmark for all employment contracts. In mid-July 2013, the Chamber of Mines of South Africa undertook wage negotiations on behalf of the gold sector. Wage negotiations were completed following the 48-hour strike at the company’s Vaal River operations and a wage agreement was extended to all employees irrespective of union affiliation. At present, the mining unions and gold mining companies in South Africa are in the second year of the latest two-year wage agreement, with the latest increases of up to 8% as well as increases in living-out allowances awarded to the majority of the workforce in September 2013. At the start of 2014, AMCU embarked upon protracted strike action in the platinum sector and served strike notices at three gold companies to challenge the extension of the 2013 Wage Agreement for AMCU members to obtain substantially higher wages, though the strike was later ruled unprotected. The next round of wage negotiations in South Africa is expected to begin in early 2015. During 2014, approximately 60% of the company’s workforce, excluding contractors, was located in South Africa. AngloGold Ashanti’s results may be further impaired if it incurs penalties for failing to meet standards set by labour laws regarding workers’ rights or incurs costs complying with new labour laws, rules and regulations. For example, employment law in South Africa imposes monetary penalties for neglecting to report to government authorities on progress made towards achieving employment equity in the workplace. Ghanaian law also contains broad provisions requiring mining companies to recruit and train Ghanaian personnel and to use the services of Ghanaian companies. In Australia, the federal government has recently introduced a new industrial relations system that includes “good faith bargaining” obligations for employers, fewer restrictions on the content of collective agreements and an enhanced role for union officials as bargaining representatives, parties to agreements and participants in dispute resolution. Penalties and compliance costs, as well as increased costs due to laws and regulations less favourable to employers, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s mining rights in the countries in which it operates could be altered, suspended or cancelled for a variety of reasons, including breaches in its obligations in respect of its mining rights. AngloGold Ashanti’s right to own and exploit Mineral Reserves and deposits is governed by the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the mineral properties are located. See “Item 4B: Business Overview—The Regulatory Environment Enabling AngloGold Ashanti to Mine”. Currently, a significant portion of the company’s Mineral Reserves and deposits are located in countries where mining rights could be suspended or cancelled should it breach its obligations in respect of the acquisition and exploitation of these rights. In each of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, the formulation or implementation of government policies on certain issues may be unpredictable. This may include changes in laws relating to mineral rights and ownership of mining assets and the right to prospect and mine, and in extreme cases, nationalisation, expropriation or nullification of existing 30 concessions, licenses, permits, agreements and contracts. In May 2012, for example, the Argentine government nationalised the oil company Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales (“YPF”) by expropriating 51% of the shares from the majority Spanish shareholder. Any existing and new mining and exploration operations and projects are subject to various national and local laws, policies and regulations governing the ownership and the right to prospect or mine or develop proposed projects. For more details on the risks surrounding ownership of mining assets, see “– Title to AngloGold Ashanti’s properties may be uncertain and subject to challenge” and “– AngloGold Ashanti’s Mineral Reserve, deposits and mining operations are located in countries that face political, economic and security risks that may affect both the terms of its mining concessions, as well as its ability to conduct operations in certain countries”. Project implementation delays could result in licences not being renewed and the loss of mining rights. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining concessions, authorisations, licences and permits are subject to expiry, limitations on renewal and various other risks and uncertainties. For example, the company experienced certification delays at Cripple Creek & Victor in the United States early in 2014, which increased costs and decreased annual production. In addition, any dispute with governments or other stakeholders, including labour unions, involving an AngloGold Ashanti operation, as a result of rationalisation efforts or otherwise, could negatively affect AngloGold Ashanti’s relationship with such government or stakeholders in respect of other operations within the same country, which could result in adverse consequences, including unfavourable regulatory action, claims and labour disputes. Such adverse consequences could be exacerbated due to the holding company structure of AngloGold Ashanti’s subsidiaries in some of the countries in which it operates. In 2012, the DRC Mines Minister announced a reform of the DRC’s mining code. According to recent available data, the proposed laws seek to, amongst other things, increase the government stake in mining operations to 15% from the existing 5%, substantially increase royalties on some minerals, reduce in a significant way the protections AngloGold Ashanti currently enjoys on its projects in the DRC, impose new conditions on the company’s ability to retain and renew licences and introduce a 50% levy on certain profits. Should such laws be enacted in the future, these may have a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations in the DRC. Moreover, AngloGold Ashanti’s mining rights in South Africa may be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Mineral Resources, and the company may be unable to obtain new mining rights if it breaches its obligations under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (“MPRDA”). In particular, South Africa’s changing Black Economic Empowerment (“BEE”) policies may adversely affect both the terms of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining concessions, as well as its ability to conduct operations. Mining rights are linked to meeting various obligations that include the Revised Charter. Compliance with the Revised Charter is measured using a designated scorecard relating to equity ownership and management control of mining companies by historically disadvantaged South Africans (“HDSAs”) by no later than the end of 2014 and HDSAs must constitute 40% of all levels of management by 2014. In 2013, AngloGold Ashanti achieved all Mining Charter targets with the exception of senior management (33% versus the target of 40%) and in the procurement services area (57% versus the target of 60%). Whilst AngloGold Ashanti believes that it is compliant with ownership targets that had to be achieved by the end of 2014, it has not yet received its scorecard from the government assessing its compliance with applicable requirements and it may need to make further progress to achieve future targets, including further participation by HDSAs in senior and top management levels, the upgrade of housing and accommodation at the company’s mines, further human resource development, mine community development, sustainable development and growth as well as procurement and enterprise development. The company will incur expenses in giving further effect to the Revised Charter and the scorecard. AngloGold Ashanti may not meet all of the various requirements by the required dates. Additionally, the South African government may decide that the Mining Charter has not gone far enough to achieve its underlying goals and therefore decide to expand the obligations of mining companies thereunder and the Minister of Mineral Resources may opt to disregard certain historical BEE transactions in connection with its review of new mining rights applications. In March 2015, the Minister of Mineral Resources announced that the Department of Mineral Resources and the Chamber of Mines of South Africa had jointly agreed to submit certain matters relating to the interpretation of the Revised Charter, including the qualification of certain historical BEE transactions for meeting the HDSA ownership thresholds, to the courts in South Africa for determination and clarification. Should AngloGold Ashanti breach its obligations in complying with the MPRDA, Revised Charter or any future amendments to the Mining Charter, its mining rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Mineral Resources and it may be unable to obtain any new mining rights. Any such suspension or cancellation could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, and as discussed in more detail in “Item 4B: Business Overview – The Regulatory Environment Enabling AngloGold Ashanti to Mine” – South Africa recently enacted the BBBEE Amendment Act, which amended the Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment Act 53 of 2003. There are several areas of potential conflict between the BBBEE Amendment Act and Revised Charter, and it is unclear whether the Amendment Act will overrule the Revised Charter in the future. 31 AngloGold Ashanti’s insurance does not cover most losses caused by the risks described above; see “–The occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured or for which its insurance is inadequate may adversely affect cash flows and overall profitability”. If AngloGold Ashanti is not able to obtain or maintain necessary permits, authorisations or agreements to prospect or mine or to implement planned projects, or continue its operations, or comply with all laws, regulations or requirements, or do so within time-frames that make such plans and operations economically viable, or if the laws impacting the company’s ownership of its mineral rights or the right to prospect or mine change materially, or should governments increase their ownership in the mines or nationalise them, AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Title to AngloGold Ashanti’s properties may be uncertain and subject to challenge. AngloGold Ashanti has operations in several countries where ownership of land is uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership. Certain of the company’s properties may be subject to the rights or the asserted rights of various community stakeholders, including indigenous people. The presence of those stakeholders may have an impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to develop or operate its mining interests. For example, in Australia, the Native Title Act (1993) provides for the establishment and recognition of native title under certain circumstances. In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure Act (1997) and the Restitution of Land Rights Act (1994) provide for various landholding rights. Such legislation is complex, difficult to predict and outside of the company’s control, and could therefore negatively affect the business results of new or existing projects. In Ghana in February 2012, the company negotiated the relocation of the Sansu Community, which lies within its local mining concession; the cost of this relocation was approximately $30 million. Where consultation with stakeholders is statutorily or otherwise mandated, relations may not remain amicable and disputes may lead to reduced access to properties or delays in operations. Moreover, amendments to the laws regulating mining in South Africa became effective on 7 June 2013. One of these amendments relates to the possible “expropriation” of mine dumps that were created before the coming into effect of the MPRDA on 1 May 2004. Although the legal position is not clear in this regard, it is possible that some pre-2004 mine dumps are now subject to the MPRDA and, as a result, the Minister of Mineral Resources may issue rights over such dumps to third parties. Title to the company’s properties, particularly undeveloped ones, may also be defective or subject to challenge. Title insurance generally is not available, and title review does not necessarily preclude third parties from contesting ownership. Where surveys have not been conducted, the precise area and location of the company’s claims may be in doubt. Accordingly, AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral properties may be subject to prior unregistered liens, agreements, transfers or claims, including native land claims, and title may be affected by, amongst other things, undetected defects. AngloGold Ashanti may experience unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs in successfully implementing its business strategy and projects, including any cost-cutting initiatives, temporary or permanent shutdowns, divestments and other portfolio rationalisation initiatives and any such strategy or project may not result in the anticipated benefits. The successful implementation of the company’s business strategy and projects depends upon many factors, including those outside its control. For example, the successful management of costs will depend on prevailing market prices for input costs. The ability to grow the business will depend on the successful implementation of the company’s existing and proposed project development initiatives and continued exploration success, as well as on the availability of attractive merger and acquisition opportunities, all of which are subject to the relevant mining and company specific risks as outlined in these risk factors. AngloGold Ashanti is in the process of implementing initiatives relating to strategic alignment, portfolio review, restructuring and cost-cutting, temporary or permanent shutdowns, and divestments, including in connection with the consolidation of its business activities and assets. Any future contribution of these measures to profitability will be influenced by the actual savings achieved and by the company’s ability to sustain these ongoing efforts. Strategic alignment, restructuring and cost-cutting initiatives may involve various risks, including, for example, labour unrest, operating licence withdrawal, and potential knock-on effects to other company projects and jurisdictions. The risk is elevated in South Africa, given calls for withdrawal of mining licences for “mothballed shafts” and hostile reaction to proposed mining industry retrenchments. The risk may also be elevated in Ghana, where the restructuring and repositioning of the Obuasi mine have resulted in a substantial reduction in the mine’s existing operations and significant workforce redundancies and where, AngloGold Ashanti may fail to demonstrate or realise its business case for the mine’s redevelopment. Finally, the risk may also be high in the DRC where the company has exited the Mongbwalu project, see “– AngloGold Ashanti’s mining rights in the countries in which it operates could be altered, suspended or cancelled for a variety of reasons, including breaches in its obligations in respect of its mining rights”. 32 In addition, these measures may not be implemented as planned, turn out to be less effective than anticipated, only become effective later than anticipated or not be effective at all. Any of these outcomes, individually or in combination, may adversely impact the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Expectations for and trends in the price of gold, combined with increased costs for project financing and exploration in certain regions, have led AngloGold Ashanti to increase its efforts to focus capital expenditure on its highest quality assets, whilst freeing up capital by curtailing capital expenditure or suspending operations at those projects that the company believes are of lower quality. AngloGold Ashanti may also consider finding partners or conducting asset sales relating to certain of its projects. With respect to dispositions, the company may not be able to obtain prices that it expects for the assets it seeks to dispose of or divest some of its activities as planned or to obtain all of the required approvals, and the divestitures that are carried out could have a negative impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. AngloGold Ashanti may also prove unable to deliver on production targets, including in potentially critical areas as well as on the timely, cost-effective and successful execution, including ramping-up, of key capital projects. For example, in South Africa, the company experienced declining production rates (1.21 million ounces of gold in 2012, compared with 1.62 million ounces of gold in 2011, and 1.78 million ounces in 2010), principally due to continued safety and associated stoppages, mining flexibility constraints and overall falls in grades. The significant decrease in 2012 was also mainly attributable to the industrial strike action at the company’s South African mines, which resulted in the loss of production of 235,000 ounces of gold. Unforeseen difficulties, delays or costs may adversely affect the successful implementation of the company’s business strategy and projects, and such strategy and projects may not result in the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on its financial results and prospects. Any acquisition or acquisitions that AngloGold Ashanti may complete may expose the company to new geographic, political, legal, social, operating, financial and geological risks. AngloGold Ashanti may pursue the acquisition of producing, development and advanced stage exploration properties and companies. Any such acquisition may change the scale of the company’s business and operations and may expose it to new geographic, geological, political, social, operating, financial, legal, regulatory and contractual risks. For example: there may be a significant change in commodity prices after the company has committed to complete the transaction and established the purchase price or share exchange ratio; a material ore body may prove below expectations; AngloGold Ashanti may have difficulty integrating and assimilating the operations and personnel of any acquired companies, realising anticipated synergies and maximising the financial and strategic position of the combined enterprise, and maintaining uniform standards, policies and controls; the integration may disrupt the company’s ongoing business and its relationships with employees, suppliers and contractors; and the acquisition may divert management’s attention from AngloGold Ashanti’s day-to-day business. Furthermore, the company operates and acquires businesses in different countries, with different regulatory and operating cultures, which may exacerbate the risks described above. In addition, the acquired business may have undetected liabilities which may be significant. In the event that the company chooses to raise debt capital to finance any acquisition, the company’s leverage will be increased. Should the company choose to use equity as consideration for an acquisition, existing shareholders may suffer dilution. Alternatively, the company may choose to finance any acquisition with its existing resources, which could decrease its ability to fund future capital expenditures. The company may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions. Failure by AngloGold Ashanti to implement its acquisition strategy or to integrate acquired businesses successfully could have material adverse effects on its growth and business results. Ageing infrastructure at some of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could adversely impact its business. Deep level gold mining shafts are usually designed with a lifespan of 25 to 30 years. Vertical shafts consist of large quantities of infrastructure steelwork for guiding conveyances and accommodating services such as high and low tension electric cables, air and water pipe columns. Rising temperatures in the deeper mining areas can also lead to increased cooling requirements in the form of upgraded and expanded ice plants. Maintaining this infrastructure requires skilled human resources, capital allocation, management and planned maintenance. Once a shaft has reached the end of its intended lifespan, higher than normal maintenance and care is required. Incidents resulting in production delays, increased costs or industrial accidents may occur. Such incidents may have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. 33 Asset integrity and reliability issues relating to ageing infrastructure are of concern at many operations, but are of particular concern in South Africa and at the Obuasi mine in Ghana. Furthermore in Tanzania, cracks were discovered in the mill feed end in September 2008 and at the discharge end in February 2010 at the Geita gold mine. The Geita gold mine is one of the group’s principal assets and sources of cash flow. After initial repairs, the feed end was replaced during May and June 2011. Production throughput in 2011 was 1 million tonnes less than planned, as a result of mill downtime that included feed end replacement; ore grade was, however, sufficient to achieve 494,000 ounces. The Geita gold mine produced approximately 531,000 ounces in 2012, with production throughput approximately 100,000 tonnes short of budget. A decision was subsequently taken to replace the entire mill as a result of shell distortion. After new mill manufacture delays, installation was completed during March 2013. Ageing infrastructure may have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition in the future. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s technologies are unproven and failure could adversely impact costs and production. AngloGold Ashanti has created a Technology Innovation Consortium (ATIC) and teamed up with various specialists to engineer new solutions to environmental management, mine design, mining technology and methods and underground logistics, amongst other matters. The company has invested in new technologies, including phyto-technologies to reduce seepage and address soil and groundwater contamination, and in mine support technologies to minimise the impact of seismic activity. The company is also attempting to develop technologies to access the deeper reaches of its South African mines, including rock boring, different hammer configurations and dimensions for drilling, thermal spalling and an ultra-high strength backfill product and system. Some aspects of these technologies are unproven and their eventual operational outcome or viability cannot be assessed with certainty. AngloGold Ashanti may be unable to successfully put into operation the technological step changes developed and proposed by ATIC. The costs, productivity and other benefits from these initiatives, and the consequent effects on AngloGold Ashanti’s future earnings and financial condition, may vary from expectations. The company’s failure to realise the anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, an inability to realise production or growth plans, or adversely affect its operational performance. The level of AngloGold Ashanti’s indebtedness could adversely impact its business. As at 31 December 2014, AngloGold Ashanti had gross borrowings of $3.721 billion (2013: $3.891 billion), excluding all finance leases and fair value adjustments on bonds. AngloGold Ashanti’s indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on its flexibility to conduct business. For example, the company may be required to use a large portion of its cash flow to pay the principal and interest on its debt, which will reduce funds available to finance existing operations and the development of new organic growth opportunities and further acquisitions. In addition, under the terms of the company’s borrowing facilities from its banks, AngloGold Ashanti is obliged to meet certain financial and other covenants. AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to continue to meet these covenants and to service its debt will depend on its future financial performance, which will be affected by its operating performance as well as by financial and other factors, and in particular the gold price, certain of which are beyond its control. Should the cash flow from operations be insufficient, AngloGold Ashanti could breach its financial and other covenants. Covenant breaches, if interpreted as events of default under one or more debt agreements, could allow lenders to accelerate payment of such debt. Any such acceleration could result in the acceleration of indebtedness under other financial instruments. As a result, the company may be required to refinance all or part of the existing debt, use existing cash balances, issue additional equity or sell assets. However, the company may be unable to sell assets on reasonable terms as and when necessary. Additionally, AngloGold Ashanti cannot be sure that it will be able to refinance its debt on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The company’s ability to access the bank, public debt or equity capital markets on an efficient basis may be constrained by dislocation in the credit markets or capital and liquidity constraints in the banking, debt or equity markets at the time of issuance. Any downgrade of credit ratings assigned to AngloGold Ashanti’s debt securities could increase future interest costs and adversely affect the availability of new financing. An actual, anticipated or unexpected negative development of AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations or cash flows, country risk, financial metrics, or an increase in net debt position could result in a deterioration of the compay’s credit ratings. AngloGold Ashanti’s ratings are influenced inter alia, by the location of its domicile and its operations. 34 Following the downgrade of South Africa’s sovereign debt rating as a result of strikes, social tension and policy uncertainty in South Africa, AngloGold Ashanti was placed on “credit watch negative” by a rating agency on 17 October 2012. In July 2013, two ratings agencies lowered the company’s long-term credit rating. Any further downgrade by ratings agencies could further increase the cost of capital and reduce the investor base and negatively and materially affect AngloGold Ashanti’s business, results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti expects to have significant financing requirements. AngloGold Ashanti’s existing board-approved development projects and exploration initiatives will require significant funding. The company’s capital expenditure plans and requirements are subject to a number of risks, contingencies and other factors, some of which are beyond its control, including volatile or sustained lower gold prices, and therefore the actual future capital expenditure and investments may differ significantly from the current planned amounts. AngloGold Ashanti’s operating cash flow and credit facilities may be insufficient to meet all of these expenditures, depending on the timing and cost of development of these and other projects as well as operating performance and available headroom under its credit facilities. As a result, new sources of capital may be needed to meet the funding requirements of these developments, to fund ongoing business activities and to pay dividends. AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to raise and service significant new sources of capital will be a function of macroeconomic conditions, the condition of the financial markets, future gold prices, the company’s operational performance and operating cash flow and debt position, amongst other factors. The company’s ability to raise further debt financing in the future and the cost of such financing will depend on, amongst other factors, its prevailing credit rating, which may be affected by the company’s ability to maintain its outstanding debt and financial ratios at levels acceptable to the credit ratings agencies, its business prospects risks relating to the countries in which it operates or other factors. As a result, in the event of depressed gold prices, unanticipated operating or financial challenges, any dislocation in financial markets or new funding limitations, AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to pursue new business opportunities on reasonable terms, invest in existing and new projects, fund its ongoing business activities, exit projects and retire or service outstanding debt and pay dividends could be significantly constrained, all of which could adversely impact the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Certain factors may affect AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to support the carrying amount of its property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill on the balance sheet. If the carrying amount of its assets is not recoverable, AngloGold Ashanti may be required to recognise an impairment charge, which could be significant. AngloGold Ashanti reviews and tests the carrying amount of its assets when events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The company values individual mining assets at the lowest level for which cash flows are identifiable and independent of cash flows of other mining assets and liabilities. If there are indications that impairment may have occurred, AngloGold Ashanti prepares estimates of a recoverable amount for each group of assets. Expected future cash flows are inherently uncertain, and could materially change over time. Recoverable amounts are significantly affected by reserve and production estimates, together with economic factors such as spot and forward gold prices and currency exchange rates, as well as discount rates and estimates of costs to produce reserves and future capital expenditure. Estimated rehabilitation and closure costs could also materially affect the company’s financial performance and could result in the need to recognise an impairment charge. If any of these uncertainties occur, either alone or in combination, management could be required to recognise an impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, during 2013, AngloGold Ashanti reviewed the carrying value of its mining assets (including ore stockpiles), goodwill and intangibles and, based on revised forecast gold prices, the company booked a charge of $3,245 million (2014: $12 million) in relation to impairments. derecognition and revaluation of net realisable value of its mining assets (including ore stockpiles), goodwill and intangibles. AngloGold Ashanti does not have full management control over some of its significant joint venture projects and other interests. If the operators of these projects do not manage these effectively and efficiently, the company’s investment in these projects could be adversely affected and its reputation could be harmed. AngloGold Ashanti’s joint ventures at Morila in Mali and at Kibali in the DRC are managed by the company’s joint venture partner Randgold Resources Limited (“Randgold”). In addition, certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s exploration ventures are managed by the relevant joint venture partner. 35 Whilst AngloGold Ashanti provides strategic management and operational advice to its joint venture partners in respect of these projects, the company cannot ensure that these projects are operated in compliance with the standards that AngloGold Ashanti applies in its other operations. If these joint ventures are not operated effectively or efficiently, including as a result of weaknesses in the policies, procedures and controls implemented by the joint venture partners, the company’s investment in the relevant project could be adversely affected. In addition, negative publicity associated with operations that are ineffective or inefficiently operated, particularly relating to any resulting accidents or environmental incidents, could harm the company’s reputation and therefore its prospects and potentially its financial condition. Furthermore, any failure of joint venture partners to meet their obligations to AngloGold Ashanti or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties’ respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. In particular, the company and Randgold retain equal representation, with neither party holding a deciding vote, on the board of the two companies that have overall management control of the Morila project in Mali and the Kibali project in the DRC, respectively, and all major management decisions for each of these two projects, including approval of the budget, require board approval. If a dispute arises between the company and Randgold with respect to the Kibali or Morila project and the parties are unable to amicably resolve such dispute, it may be difficult for the parties to make strategic decisions relating to the project affected by such dispute, the day-to-day operations and the development of such project may be adversely affected and the company may have to participate in proceedings to resolve the dispute, which could adversely affect the company’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s joint venture partners may have economic or business interests or goals that are not consistent with the company’s or may, as a result of financial or other difficulties, be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the joint venture or other agreements. Disputes between the company and its joint venture partners may lead to legal action, including litigation between AngloGold Ashanti and its joint venture partners. Such disputes could adversely affect the operation of the joint venture and may prevent the realisation of the joint ventures’ goals. There is no assurance that the company’s joint venture partners will continue their relationship with the company in the future or that the company will be able to achieve its financial or strategic objectives relating to the joint ventures. AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral deposits, Mineral Reserve, and mining operations are located in countries where political, tax and economic laws and policies may change rapidly and unpredictably and such changes and policies may adversely affect both the terms of its mining concessions, as well as its ability to conduct operations in certain countries. Past experience demonstrates that political, tax and economic laws and policies in countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates can change rapidly. Examples include the coup d’état and subsequent fighting in Mali and the recent changes to the foreign currency regulations in Argentina. As mining assets are fixed, the adverse impacts of such changes may be unavoidable and immediate. Any existing and new mining, exploration operations and projects that the company carries out are subject to various national and local laws, policies and regulations governing the ownership, prospecting, development and mining of mineral reserves, taxation and royalties, exchange controls, import and export duties and restrictions, investment approvals, employee and social community relations and other matters. In many of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, there is an ongoing focus by governments seeking greater economic benefit and increased financial and social benefits from extractive industries and mining in particular. This entails the review of mining codes and stability agreements, which were in many cases designed under particular economic conditions, and the formulation or amendment of laws, policies and regulations relating to issues such as mineral rights and asset ownership, royalties, taxation and taxation disputes, “windfall” or “super” taxation, non-recovery of taxation refunds, import and export duties, currency transfers, restrictions on foreign currency holdings and repatriation of earnings. The laws, policies and regulations are increasingly uncertain, changing and generally require progressively higher payments to governments, notably in the form of increased royalties and taxes, mandated beneficiation, export levies and increasing or retaining state or national ownership of resources. In particular, changes to the fiscal terms governing AngloGold Ashanti’s operations may have a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations or financial condition, threaten the viability of existing operations, and discourage future investments in certain jurisdictions. This may therefore have an adverse impact on the company’s ability to access new assets and potentially reduce future growth opportunities. For example, on 9 September 2011, a new mining code for Guinea was enacted. The new mining code significantly increased the share of state ownership in the mining industry, extending a 15% share of future mining projects to the government, without financial compensation. The government also had the option to purchase up to an additional 20% of each project. However, the new mining code was suspended in October 2012 due to unfavourable reception. On 8 April 2013, the Guinean parliament voted to amend the 2011 Mining Code. The amendment was promulgated shortly after by Presidential Decree on 17 April 2013. The new legislation provides that existing mining conventions will be amended through addenda which will contain various provisions, including provisions relating to taxation, state equity participation in mining companies and other matters. 36 The government of Ghana amended its fiscal mining regime, increasing its corporate taxation to 35% and royalty rates of 5%. Furthermore, the government of Ghana has constituted a review committee to review and re-negotiate stability agreements with mining companies. AngloGold Ashanti is currently participating in negotiations with the Ghanaian review committee. The outcome of these negotiations may have a material adverse effect on the company’s results of operations or financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti and other major mining companies are in talks with the Tanzanian government regarding new mining legislation and its impact on existing mining agreements. Such talks follow an earlier declaration in July 2012 by the Tanzanian Minister of Energy and Minerals that the mining contracts were under review. The new mining legislation and the outcome of the review of the mining contracts may have a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Recently, the Tanzanian Minister of Energy and Minerals increased the royalty rate levied on gold extracted in Tanzania by AngloGold Ashanti’s operations by 1% and this has a direct impact on the revenues earned from the operations in Tanzania. Proposed Tanzanian regulations set out the requirement to sell shares to nationals by way of a public offering and listing on the Dar es Salaam Stock Exchange that may apply to companies that carry out large scale mining operations. In 2012, the DRC Mines Minister announced a reform of the DRC’s mining code. According to recent available data, the proposed laws seek to, amongst other things, increase the government stake in mining operations to 15% from the existing 5%, substantially increase royalties on some minerals, reduce in a significant way the protections AngloGold Ashanti currently enjoys on its projects in the DRC, impose new conditions on the company’s ability to retain and renew licences and introduce a 50% levy on certain profits. Should such laws be enacted in the future, these may have a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations in the DRC. On 1 July 2012, Australia’s Minerals Resource Rent Tax (“MRRT”) came into effect after the legislation was passed in March 2012. The MRRT applies only to the bulk commodities of coal and iron ore, and replaced the previously proposed Resource Super Profit Tax (“RSPT”), which covered all minerals. The Australian federal government did not include gold and uranium in the final MRRT. However, should Australia consider reintroducing the RSPT, or if similar “super profit” taxes were to be introduced and implemented in any other country in which AngloGold Ashanti operates, the company’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, some of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral deposits and mining and exploration operations are located in countries that are experiencing social and political instability as well as economic uncertainty. For example, in South Africa, country risk has increased in light of the violent strike action, social unrest and protest. The risk of contagion from the tense industrial relations environment in the platinum sector remains, despite the government’s efforts. The high levels of unemployment, poverty and inequality remain, further increasing the risk of social instability that will continue to negatively impact the South African economy, business and the mining industry. In December 2012, though the ruling African National Congress rejected the concept of wholesale nationalisation, a “resource rent” tax on windfall profits has been discussed, and it is uncertain whether such a tax will become law. The MPRDA Amendment Bill of 2013, passed by the National Assembly of Parliament of the Republic of South Africa on 12 March 2014 (and referred back to the National Assembly by the President on 16 January 2015), could impact AngloGold Ashanti’s business by empowering the Minister of Mineral Resources to set developmental pricing conditions for certain minerals for beneficiation purposes, impose export permits on designated minerals and give the State an open-ended free carried interest and State participation. In June 2013, the Brazilian government announced increased royalties of up to 4% and changes to exploration rights. Mining is a long term activity and assets may be located in jurisdictions with elevated risk. Political instability and the resulting unstable business environment in such countries in which companies operate may discourage future investment in those jurisdictions, and may have an adverse impact on the company’s ability to access new assets, potentially reducing growth opportunities. AngloGold Ashanti is subject to an uncertain tax environment. Increased taxes are expected in most countries of operation. Changes in tax laws could result in higher tax expense and payments. Furthermore, legislation changes could materially impact AngloGold Ashanti’s tax receivables and liabilities as well as deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. In addition, the uncertain tax environment in some regions could limit AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to enforce its rights. As a global company, AngloGold Ashanti conducts its business in countries subject to complex tax rules, which may be interpreted in different ways. Further interpretations or developments of tax regimes may affect the company’s tax liability, return on investments and business operations. AngloGold Ashanti is regularly examined by tax authorities in the various jurisdictions of operation. 37 In Guinea, Mali and Tanzania, AngloGold Ashanti is due refunds of input tax and fuel duties which have remained outstanding for periods longer than those provided for in the respective statutes. For example, AngloGold Ashanti calculates that overdue recoverable value added tax, fuel duties and appeal deposits of $71 million are owed to AngloGold Ashanti and held by the Tanzanian government and it is not certain when AngloGold Ashanti will be refunded this amount, if at all. The countries in which the company operates may also introduce strict exchange controls, impose restrictions to source materials and services locally, or impose other similar restrictions that hinder foreign companies’ operations within such countries. For example, the Argentine government introduced stricter exchange controls and related protracted approval processes, which may limit the company’s ability to repatriate dividends from its Argentine subsidiaries. In October 2011, the Argentina government decreed that mining, oil and energy companies must repatriate export earnings. Additionally, the purchase of U.S. dollars requires authorisation from the Argentine tax agency and the purpose for which the currency will be used must be stated. In May 2012, the Argentine Mining Secretariat issued new regulations requiring mining companies in Argentina to boost their domestic purchases of equipment and services. Mining companies are now required to resort exclusively to locally established suppliers for their export-related shipping and logistics operations. A separate norm requires companies to open an import substitution division which will be in charge of submitting procurement plans to the Mining Secretariat on a quarterly basis. Such requirements are hindering the company’s operations within Argentina and these or similar requirements may continue to do so in the future and may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. If, in one or more of the countries in which it operates, AngloGold Ashanti were not able to obtain or maintain necessary permits, authorisations or agreements to implement planned projects or continue its operations under conditions or within timeframes that make such plans and operations economically viable, or if the applicable legal, ownership, fiscal (including all royalties and duties), exchange control, employment, environmental and social laws or regimes change materially, or if the governing political authorities change resulting in amendments to such laws and regimes, this could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s operating results, financial condition, and, in extreme situations, on the viability of an operation. For example, in South Africa mining rights are linked to meeting various obligations that include the Revised Charter. Compliance with the Revised Charter is measured using a designated scorecard relating to equity ownership and management control of mining companies by historically disadvantaged South Africans (“HDSAs”) by no later than the end of 2014 and HDSAs must constitute 40% of all levels of management by 2014. In 2013, AngloGold Ashanti achieved all Mining Charter targets with the exception of senior management (33% versus the target of 40%) and in the procurement services area (57% versus the target of 60%). Whilst AngloGold Ashanti believes that it is compliant with ownership targets that had to be achieved by the end of 2014, it has not yet received its scorecard from the government assessing its compliance with applicable requirements and it may need to make further progress to achieve future targets, including further participation by HDSAs in senior and top management levels, the upgrade of housing and accommodation at the company’s mines, further human resource development, mine community development, sustainable development and growth as well as procurement and enterprise development. The company will incur expenses in giving further effect to the Revised Charter and the scorecard. AngloGold Ashanti may not meet all of the various requirements by the required dates. Additionally, the South African government may decide that the Mining Charter has not gone far enough to achieve its underlying goals and therefore decide to expand the obligations of mining companies thereunder and the Minister of Mineral Resources may opt to disregard certain historical BEE transactions in connection with its review of new mining rights applications. In March 2015, the Minister of Mineral Resources announced that the Department of Mineral Resources and the Chamber of Mines of South Africa had jointly agreed to submit certain matters relating to the interpretation of the Revised Charter, including the qualification of certain historical BEE transactions for meeting the HDSA ownership thresholds, to the courts in South Africa for determination and clarification. Should AngloGold Ashanti breach its obligations in complying with the MPRDA, Revised Charter or any future amendments to the Mining Charter, its mining rights in South Africa could be suspended or cancelled by the Minister of Mineral Resources and it may be unable to obtain any new mining rights. Any such suspension or cancellation could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti’s Mineral Reserve, deposits and mining operations are located in countries that face instability and security risks that may adversely affect both the terms of its mining concessions, as well as its ability to conduct operations in certain countries. Some of AngloGold Ashanti’s mineral deposits and mining and exploration operations are located in countries that are experiencing political instability and economic and other uncertainty. Certain of the countries in which AngloGold Ashanti has mineral deposits or mining or exploration operations, including the DRC, Mali, Guinea and Colombia, have in the past experienced, and in certain cases continue to experience, a difficult security environment. In particular, various illegal groups active in regions in which the company is present may pose a credible threat of military repression, terrorism, civil unrest and disturbances, sabotage, extortion and kidnapping, which could have an adverse effect on its operations in these and other regions. 38 For example, Mali continues to experience a difficult security environment since the military coup in March 2012. The situation in Mali remains of heightened concern as a result of the instability in northern Mali. Eastern DRC also continues to experience tension consistent with the cycles of unrest experienced since the late 2000s. Fighting has caused instability in the area and could expand or intensify. In 2012, and for the first time in approximately seven years, Anglo Gold Ashanti Colombia’s (“AGAC”) assets and employees were the targets of direct attacks by hostile actors around the La Colosa project’s area of influence. These and other such attacks could adversely affect the company’s operations in Colombia. Since 2009, the company has recorded an almost four-fold increase in the instances of injury to security personnel, including members of AngloGold Ashanti’s internal security, private security companies and public security forces in certain jurisdictions. The rise in the number and severity of security incidents has come as a result of both increased illegal and artisanal mining due to a steady migration of people into the areas and an increase in the level of organisation and funding of criminal activity around some of the company’s Continental African operations. This trend has stabilised, but in 2013 and 2014, intrusions onto the company’s tenement and operational areas resulted in a marked increase in crime, specifically illegal mining-related activities. The most significant security challenges remain in Tanzania and Ghana, in areas where there is endemic poverty and high levels of unemployment. If the security environment surrounding the company’s operations that are most exposed to these challenges deteriorates, employee, third-party and community member injuries and fatalities could also increase. Any such increase could disrupt the company’s operations in certain mines and adversely affect its reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In some instances, risk assessments categorise threats as serious enough to require resorting to public security forces, such as national police or military units on a near-permanent basis. In the event that continued operations in any of the company’s countries of operations compromise the company’s security or business principles, AngloGold Ashanti may withdraw from any such countries on a temporary or permanent basis. This could have a material adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, the company continues to experience strained relationships with certain of its host communities. AngloGold Ashanti operates in several regions where poverty, unemployment and the lack of access to alternative livelihoods mean that the creation and distribution of economic benefit from mining operations is a significant area of focus for community and government. During 2013 there were a total of 21 community opposition incidents that were of minor or moderate consequence, mostly at the company’s exploration projects, particularly at Mongbwalu and in Colombia. There were five protests during 2013 at Cerro Vanguardia, Obuasi, Siguiri and Iduapriem. In addition, infectious diseases are also a threat to the stability of some of the countries in which the company operates, where limited local health infrastructure weakens governments’ ability to manage and contain outbreaks effectively. For example, during August 2014, cases of Ebola virus disease (“EVD”) were reported in Siguiri, Guinea, which is located near AngloGold Ashanti’s Siguiri mine. EVD was also reported elsewhere in Guinea. The company has implemented certain restrictions on travel to and from the Siguiri mine as a precaution. As EVD caused significant disruptions in the company’s exploration activities, particularly relating to field mapping and geophysics, AngloGold Ashanti also suspended its brownfields work programme and greenfields field work in the middle of 2014. In the future the company may consider further safety measures which may negatively impact the operations at the Siguiri mine or its exploration projects in neighbouring areas. Illegal and artisanal mining occurs on AngloGold Ashanti’s properties, which can disrupt the company’s business and expose the company to liability. Illegal and artisanal miners are active on, or adjacent to at least 15 AngloGold Ashanti’s properties, which leads at times to interference with the company’s operations and results in conflict situations that present a security threat to property and human life. Artisanal mining is associated with a number of negative impacts, including environmental degradation, flouting of land rights, poor working practices, erosion of civil society, human rights abuse and funding of conflict. The environmental, social, safety and health impacts of artisanal mining are frequently attributed to formal mining activity, and it is often assumed that artisanally-mined gold is channelled through large-scale mining operators, even though artisanal and large-scale miners have distinct supply chains. These misconceptions impact negatively on the reputation of the industry. The activities of the illegal miners, which include theft and shrinkage, could cause damage to AngloGold Ashanti’s properties, including pollution, underground fires, or personal injury or death, for which AngloGold Ashanti could potentially be held responsible. Illegal mining could result in the depletion of mineral deposits, potentially making the future mining of such deposits uneconomic. The presence of illegal miners could lead to project delays and disputes regarding the development or 39 operation of commercial gold deposits. Furthermore, in 2012, the company recorded an increase in the number and severity of security incidents, due to a steady migration of people into the areas and an increase in the level of organisation and funding of criminal activity around some of the company’s Continental African operations, likely encouraged by an escalating gold price at that time. The most significant security challenges have occurred in Tanzania and Ghana in areas where there is endemic poverty and high levels of unemployment. Illegal mining and theft could also result in lost gold reserves, mine stoppages, and have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations or financial condition. The use of contractors at certain of the company’s operations may expose AngloGold Ashanti to delays or suspensions in mining activities and increases in mining costs. AngloGold Ashanti uses contractors at certain of its operations to mine and deliver ore to processing plants as well as for other purposes. At mines employing mining contractors, contracting costs represent a significant proportion of the total operating costs of these operations and the company does not own all of the mining equipment. For example, increased contractor rates at the Sadiola mine in Mali contributed to a significant rise in total cash costs in the final quarter of 2011. Increased contractor costs at Sunrise Dam in Australia and Geita in Tanzania contributed to higher production costs in the first quarter of 2012. Furthermore disagreements over costs with contractors at Siguiri in Guinea and Iduapriem in Ghana resulted in a dispute in 2015. AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could be disrupted, resulting in additional costs and liabilities, if the mining contractors at affected mines have financial difficulties, or if a dispute arises in renegotiating a contract, or if there is a delay in replacing an existing contractor and its operating equipment to meet business needs at expected cost levels. Increases in contract mining rates, in the absence of associated productivity increases, will also have an adverse impact on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. For example, on 13 October 2012, AngloGold Ashanti terminated the underground development contract with a third-party contractor at the Obuasi mine in Ghana. The costs of the termination amounted to $17 million. On 10 February 2014 workers employed by a contractor at Sadiola and Yatela went on a five day strike demanding improved redundancy payments. See “ – Labour unrest, activism and disruptions could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition”. In addition, AngloGold Ashanti’s reduced control over those aspects of operations which are the responsibility of contractors, their failure to comply with applicable legal, human rights and regulatory requirements, or their inability to manage their workforce or provide high quality services or a high level of productivity could adversely affect AngloGold Ashanti’s reputation, results of operations and financial condition, and may result in the company’s incurrence of liability to third parties due to the actions of contractors. AngloGold Ashanti competes with mining and other companies for key human resources with critical skills and its inability to retain key personnel could have an adverse effect on its business. AngloGold Ashanti competes on a global basis with mining and other companies to attract and retain key human resources at all levels with the appropriate technical skills and operating and managerial experience necessary to operate and supervise its business. This is exacerbated by the global shortage of persons with critical mining skills, including geologists, mining engineers, metallurgists and skilled artisans. Furthermore, the often remote locations of mining operations may make the mining industry unattractive to potential employees. Changes in taxation and the regulatory environment where AngloGold Ashanti operates may also impact the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel, especially those from abroad. The retention of staff is particularly challenging in South Africa, where, in addition to the impacts of global industry shortages of skilled labour, AngloGold Ashanti is required to achieve employment equity targets of participation by HDSAs in management and other positions. AngloGold Ashanti competes with all companies in South Africa to attract and retain a small but growing pool of HDSAs with the necessary skills and experience. AngloGold Ashanti has historically faced difficulty recruiting and retaining young graduates and qualified mid-level management in South Africa. Recruitment of skilled personnel has been challenging in Continental Africa due to university offerings that are often not well-suited to the specific needs of the mining industry, as well as other factors such as language barriers and low literacy skills. The recruitment of skilled workers is also highly competitive in South America as a result of a shortage of skills and intense competition between mining companies. Additionally, the company may incur significant costs to build talent, capacity and expertise across its global operations. Despite AngloGold Ashanti’s investments, the company may not be able to retain and attract sufficient skilled and experienced employees in all areas of the business. Should it fail to do so or lose any of its key personnel with critical skills, business and growth prospects may be harmed and this could have an adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. 40 AngloGold Ashanti’s inability to retain its senior management may have an adverse effect on its business. The company’s success depends largely upon the continued service of its senior management, including its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, the executive officers at each of its business divisions and general managers at its mines. The loss of one or more members of the senior management teams, coupled with the reduced attractiveness of the gold mining sector, could lead to other members of the management team leaving, disrupt the company’s operations, and have a material adverse impact on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The prevalence of occupational health diseases and other diseases and the potential costs and liabilities related thereto may have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of AngloGold Ashanti. The primary areas of focus in respect of occupational health of employees within the company’s operations are noise-induced hearing loss and occupational lung diseases (“OLD”), which include pulmonary diseases such as tuberculosis from various causes and silicosis in individuals exposed to silica dust. These require active dust management strategies in underground operations, particularly in South Africa where a significant number of silicosis cases by current and former employees alleging past exposures are still reported each year to the board for statutory compensation. AngloGold Ashanti provides occupational health services to its employees at its occupational health centres and clinics and continues to improve preventative occupational hygiene initiatives, such as implementing various dust control measures and supplying the company’s employees with respiratory protection equipment. If the costs associated with providing such occupational health services, implementing such dust control measures or supplying such equipment increase significantly beyond anticipated or budgeted amounts, this could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. Actual and alleged health and safety incidents or breaches of standards may also adversely impact the company’s reputation. AngloGold Ashanti is currently subject to class action litigation with respect to alleged occupational lung diseases (see “—AngloGold Ashanti is subject to the risk of litigation, the causes and costs of which are not always known”). AngloGold Ashant is working with the industry to engage with government (and other stakeholders) to seek an appropriate industry-wide solution. An industry-wide solution may not be reached or the terms thereof may have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s financial condition. See “Item 8A: Legal Proceedings” and “Item 18: Note 36 – Contractual Commitments and Contingencies”. In response to the effects of silicosis in labour-sending communities, a number of mining companies (under the auspices of the Chamber of Mines of South Africa) together with the NUM, which is the largest union in the mining sector in South Africa, and the national and regional departments of health, have embarked on a project to assist in delivering compensation and relief by mining companies under the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act (“ODMWA”) to affected communities. AngloGold Ashanti also faces certain risks in dealing with HIV/AIDS, particularly at its South African operations and with tropical disease outbreaks such as malaria, and other diseases which may have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. AIDS and associated diseases remain one of the major health care challenges faced by AngloGold Ashanti’s South African operations. Workforce prevalence studies indicate that HIV prevalence rates amongst AngloGold Ashanti’s South African workforce may be as high as 30%. Malaria and other tropical diseases pose significant health risks at all of the company’s operations in central, west and east Africa where such diseases may assume epidemic proportions because of ineffective national control programmes. Malaria is a major cause of death in young children and pregnant women but also gives rise to fatalities and absenteeism in adult men. Other conditions such as heart disease, chronic diseases and obesity are of increasing incidence and concern. Such diseases impair the health of workers and negatively affect productivity and profitability as a result of workers’ diminished focus or skill, absenteeism, treatment costs and allocated resources. Any current or future medical programme may not be successful in preventing or reducing the infection rate amongst AngloGold Ashanti’s employees or in affecting consequent illness or mortality rates. AngloGold Ashanti may incur significant costs in addressing this issue in the future, which could also adversely impact the company’s results of operations and financial condition. The costs and impacts associated with the pumping of water inflows from closed mines adjacent to the company’s operations could have an adverse effect on its results of operations. Certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s mining operations are located adjacent to the mining operations of other mining companies. The closure of a mining operation may have an impact upon continued operations at the adjacent mine if appropriate preventative steps are not taken. In particular, this can include the ingress of underground water when pumping operations at the adjacent closed mine are suspended. Such ingress could have an adverse effect on any one of the company’s mining operations as a result of property damage, disruption to operations, additional pollution liabilities and pumping costs and, consequently, could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. 41 Some of the mining operations adjacent to AngloGold Ashanti’s operations in South Africa have been closed. For example, in May 2013, Village Main Reef (“VMR”) announced its intention to wind down its Buffels (Hartebeesfontein and Buffelsfontein) operations adjacent to AngloGold Ashanti’s Vaal River operations, effectively transitioning their operations to closure. VMR has ceased pumping of underground water at its Buffelsfontein and Hartebeesfontein operations but AngloGold Ashanti is preparing and implementing plans to manage the underground water when it reaches the company’s operations in several months’ time. The company has not released VMR from any environmental obligations as relates to such water infiltration, however, and it intends to enforce any rights that it has against VMR and Buffelsfontein, including under the directive issued by the Department of Water Affairs in 2005. In the West Wits district, Blyvooruitzicht Gold Mining Company was placed in provisional liquidation in August 2013. AngloGold Ashanti has secured a court order for access rights to Blyvoor 4 and 6 shafts to keep pumping going. AngloGold Ashanti has also incorporated Covalent Water Company, which has purchased rights of access, electricity etc. to the 4 and 6 shafts as well as the relevant infrastructure to continue pumping underground water. This has reduced the risk of flooding at the company’s West Wits Operations, but the company can provide no assurance that the risk of flooding will not materialise, which could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. The potential costs associated with the remediation and prevention of groundwater contamination from the company’s operations or due to flooding from closed mines adjacent to the company’s operations could have a material adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti has identified groundwater contamination plumes at certain of its operations that have occurred primarily as a result of seepage from surface operations and facilities, including tailings storage facilities and waste rock piles. Deep groundwater contamination is a significant issue in South Africa, where groundwater in some older mining regions has infiltrated mined-out workings. Potential contamination risk to shallow ground and surface water resources can occur when water is exposed to sulphide-bearing rock in such situations. AngloGold Ashanti has identified a flooding and future pollution risk posed by deep groundwater in the Klerksdorp and Far West Rand goldfields. AngloGold Ashanti’s Vaal River operations are part of the Klerksdorp goldfields and its West Wits operations are part of the Far West Rand goldfields. As a result of the interconnected nature of underground mining operations in South Africa, any proposed solution needs to be a combined one supported by all the companies owning mines located in these goldfields. In view of the limitation of current information for the accurate estimation of liabilities, no reliable estimate can be made for these obligations. The potential costs of remediation and prevention of groundwater contamination at AngloGold Ashanti’s operations could be significant and may have a material adverse impact on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. The occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured or for which its insurance is inadequate may adversely affect cash flows and overall profitability. AngloGold Ashanti maintains insurance to protect only against catastrophic events which could have a significant adverse effect on its operations and profitability. This insurance is maintained in amounts that the company believes to be reasonable depending upon the circumstances surrounding each identified risk. However, damage and third-party claims arising from catastrophic events may exceed the limit of liability on insurance policies the company has in place. Furthermore, AngloGold Ashanti’s insurance does not cover all potential risks associated with its business and may exclude certain parts of its business. AngloGold Ashanti may elect not to insure certain risks due to the high premiums or for various other reasons, including an assessment that the risks are remote. The company may not be able to obtain insurance coverage at acceptable premiums. The company believes negotiations with insurance providers have become more difficult for a number of reasons, including prevailing macroeconomic conditions and the risk profile of the mining industry. Insurance for certain risks in particular, such as loss of title to mineral property, political risks in certain jurisdictions, environmental pollution, or other hazards resulting from exploration and production, is not generally available to mining companies on acceptable terms. The availability and cost of insurance coverage can vary considerably from year to year as a result of events beyond the company’s control or from claims, and this can result in higher premiums and periodically being unable to maintain the levels or types of insurance the company typically carries. The failure to obtain adequate insurance could impair the company’s ability to continue to operate in the normal course or could result in the occurrence of events for which AngloGold Ashanti is not insured, either of which could adversely impact its cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 42 AngloGold Ashanti is subject to the risk of litigation, the causes and costs of which are not always known. AngloGold Ashanti is subject to litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business and may be involved in disputes that may result in litigation. The causes of potential future litigation cannot be known and may arise from, amongst other things, business activities, environmental and health and safety concerns, share price volatility or failure to comply with disclosure obligations. The results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty but could include costly damage awards or settlements, fines, and the loss of licenses, concessions, or rights, amongst other things. In the event of a dispute, AngloGold Ashanti may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts or may not be successful in subjecting foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in South Africa or the United States. AngloGold Ashanti is subject to numerous claims, including class actions or similar group claims relating to silicosis and other OLD, and could be subject to similar claims in the future. AngloGold Ashanti has received notice of two applications for class certification relating to silicosis in which the company is a respondent. It has also received a significant number of notices of individual claims. For further information, please refer to “Item 8A: Legal Proceedings – South Africa – Silicosis litigation”. It is possible that additional class actions and/or individual claims relating to silicosis and/or other OLD will be filed against AngloGold Ashanti in the future. AngloGold Ashanti will defend all and any subsequent claims as filed on their merits. AngloGold Ashanti cannot predict whether or when more individual claims will be filed in the future or whether the classes described above or other classes will be certified. Should any such claims result in an adverse outcome for AngloGold Ashanti, or if AngloGold Ashanti is unsuccessful in otherwise favourably resolving perceived deficiencies in the national occupational disease compensation framework that were identified in an earlier decision by the Constitutional Court of South Africa, such matters would have an adverse effect on its financial position, which could be material. In Colombia, the company is also involved in class action lawsuits in relation to AGAC Santa Maria-Montecristo and La Colosa projects. One of these class action lawsuits led to a preliminary injunction suspending the mining concession contracts of the Santa Maria-Montecristo project in September 2011. Additionally, in Colombia, AGAC is involved in an action in the Administrative Superior Court of the Cundinamarca District against the Department of the Environment, Housing and Territorial Development (“DoE”) following its issuance of a fine against AGAC on the basis that AGAC was in breach of its mining terms of reference. Please see “Item 8A: Legal Proceedings – Colombia”. Should the company be unable to resolve disputes favourably or to enforce its rights, this may have a material adverse impact on the company’s financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. The implementation of an integrated Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system could have an adverse effect on AngloGold Ashanti’s results of operations and financial condition. AngloGold Ashanti continues to implement a single, global ERP system to support all the operations that it manages. The implementation and operationalisation of an ERP system on a global basis is inherently a high risk initiative due to the potential for implementation cost and time overruns. In addition, such implementation could affect AngloGold Ashanti’s ability to report and manage technical and financial information if difficulties in the implementation and operation of the system are experienced, which could have an adverse effect on the company’s results of operations and financial condition. Any similar future problems with the implementation or maintenance of the ERP system could have an adverse effect on the company’s financial condition. Sales of large quantities of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares and American Depository Shares (ADSs), and the perception that these sales may occur or other dilution of the company’s equity, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of the company’s securities. The bulk of AngloGold Ashanti’s shares are held by a relatively small number of investors. According to information available to the company, AngloGold Ashanti’s four largest shareholders beneficially owned 29.30% and the top 10 largest beneficially owned 48.35% of AngloGold Ashanti’s ordinary shares as at 31 December 2014. Poor returns, soaring costs, higher capital expenditure, ill-conceived corporate activity, rising geopolitical and labour risk and low dividend yields over the past few years have resulted in a change in market sentiment towards gold equities. The market price of the company’s securities could fall if large quantities of ordinary shares or ADSs are sold in the public market, if there is divestment by certain types or groupings of investors, or if there is the perception in the marketplace that such sales could occur. Subject to applicable securities laws, holders of the company’s ordinary shares or ADSs may decide to sell them at any time. The market price of the company’s ordinary shares or ADSs could also fall as a result of any future offerings AngloGold 43 Ashanti makes of its ordinary shares, ADSs, or securities exchangeable or exercisable for the company’s ordinary shares or ADSs, or the perception in the marketplace that these offerings might occur. AngloGold Ashanti may make such offerings, including offerings of additional ADS rights, share rights or similar securities, at any time or from time to time in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of currencies may reduce the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities, as well as the market value of any dividends or distributions paid by the company. AngloGold Ashanti has historically declared all dividends in South African rands. As a result, exchange rate movements may have affected and may continue to affect the Australian dollar, the British pound, the Ghanaian cedi and the U.S. dollar value of these dividends, as well as of any other distributions paid by the relevant depositary to investors that hold the company’s securities. This may reduce the value of these securities to investors. AngloGold Ashanti’s Memorandum of Incorporation allows for dividends and distributions to be declared in any currency at the discretion of the board of directors, or the company’s shareholders at a general meeting. If, and to the extent that, AngloGold Ashanti opts to declare dividends and distributions in U.S. dollars, exchange rate movements will not affect the U.S. dollar value of any dividends or distributions. Nevertheless, the value of any dividend or distribution in Australian dollars, Ghanaian cedis or South African rands will continue to be affected. If and to the extent that dividends and distributions are declared in South African rands, exchange rate movements will continue to affect the Australian dollar, Ghanaian cedi and U.S. dollar value of these dividends and distributions. Furthermore, the market value of AngloGold Ashanti’s securities as expressed in Australian dollars, Ghanaian cedis, U.S. dollars and South African rands will continue to fluctuate in part as a result of foreign exchange fluctuations. AngloGold Ashanti may not pay dividends or make similar payments to shareholders in the future. AngloGold Ashanti pays cash dividends only if there are sufficient funds available for that purpose. Fund availability depends upon many factors that include the amount of cash available in relation to AngloGold Ashanti’s capital expenditure on existing infrastructure and exploration and other projects. Under South African law, a company is entitled to pay a dividend or similar payment to its shareholders only if the company meets the solvency and liquidity tests set out in legislation, and the company’s founding documents. Given these factors, including the capital and investment needs of AngloGold Ashanti, and the board of directors’ discretion to declare a dividend that includes the amount and timing thereof, cash dividends may not be paid in the future. 44 