Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our revenues and expenses are difficult to predict and can vary significantly from period to period, which could cause our share price to decline. Our revenues and profitability have grown rapidly in certain years and are likely to vary significantly in the future from period to period. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in the future our results of operations may be below the expectations of market analysts and our investors, which could cause the share price of our equity shares and our ADSs to decline significantly. Factors which affect the fluctuation of our operating results include: the size, timing and profitability of significant projects, including large outsourcing deals; changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; economic fluctuations that affect the strength of the economy of the United States, Europe or any of the other markets in which we operate; foreign currency fluctuations and our hedging activities that are intended to address such fluctuations; the effect of wage pressures, seasonal hiring patterns, attrition and the time required to train and productively utilize new employees, particularly information technology or IT professionals; the proportion of services that we perform at our development centers or at our client sites; utilization of billable employees; the size and timing of facilities expansion and resulting depreciation and amortization costs; varying expenditures and lead times in connection with responding to, and submitting, proposals for large client engagements, including expenditures associated with changing due diligence requirements unanticipated cancellations, contract terminations, deferrals of projects or delays in purchases, including those resulting from our clients reorganizing their operations, changing their management, and engaging in mergers or acquisitions; the inability of our clients and potential clients to forecast their business and IT needs, and the resulting impact on our business; unanticipated cancellations, contract terminations, deferrals of projects or delays in purchases resulting from our clients’ efforts to comply with regulatory requirements; the proportion of our customer contracts that are on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, compared with time and materials contracts; and unanticipated variations in the duration, size and scope of our projects, as well as in the corporate decision-making process of our client base. A significant part of our total operating expenses, particularly expenses related to personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular period. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects, employee utilization rates, or the accuracy of our estimates of the resources required to complete ongoing projects may cause significant variations in our operating results in any particular period. There are also a number of factors, other than our performance, that are not within our control that could cause fluctuations in our operating results from period to period. These include: the duration of tax holidays or tax exemptions and the availability of other incentives from the Government of India; changes in regulations and taxation in India or the other countries in which we conduct business; currency fluctuations, particularly if the rupee appreciates in value against the U.S. dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro or the Australian dollar, since the majority of our revenues are in these currencies and a significant part of our costs are in Indian rupees; and other general economic and political factors, including the economic conditions in the United States, Europe or any other geographies in which we operate. In addition, the availability of visas for working in the United States may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Visas for working in the United States may be available during one quarter but not another or there may be differences in the number of visas available from one quarter to another. As such, the variable availability of visas may require us to incur significantly higher visa-related expenses in certain quarters when compared to others. For example, we incurred $60 million in costs for visas during fiscal 2013, compared to $45 million in costs for visas during fiscal 2012. Such fluctuations may affect our operating margins and profitability in certain quarters during a fiscal year. We may not be able to sustain our previous profit margins or levels of profitability. Our profitability could be affected by pricing pressures on our services, volatility of the exchange rates between the Indian rupee, the U.S. dollar, and other currencies in which we generate revenues or incur expenses, increased wage pressures in India and at other locations where we maintain operations, and increases in taxes or the expiration of tax benefits. While our Global Delivery Model allows us to manage costs efficiently, if the proportion of our services delivered at client sites increases, we may not be able to keep our operating costs as low in the future, which would also have an adverse impact on our profit margins. Further, in the past, our profit margin had been adversely impacted by the expiration of certain tax holidays and benefits in India, and we expect that it may be further adversely affected as additional tax holidays and benefits expire in the future. In addition, we have recently increased operating expenses as a result of wage increases for our employees in India and outside India, the acquisition of Lodestone Holding AG and increasing visa costs. These increased operating expenses could potentially affect our profit margins and results of operations in future periods. During fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, there was volatility in the exchange rate of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar. The exchange rate for one dollar as published by FEDAI was 54.29 as of March 31, 2013, compared to 50.88 as of March 31, 2012 and 44.60 as of March 31, 2011. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our operating results. Increased operating expenses in the future as well as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, in particular, the appreciation of the Indian rupee against foreign currencies or the appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, could materially and adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations in future periods. The economic environment, pricing pressure, and decreased employee utilization rates could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Spending on technology products and services is subject to fluctuations depending on many factors, including the economic environment in the markets in which our clients operate. For example, there was a decline in the growth rate of global IT purchases in the latter half of 2008 due to the global economic slowdown. This downward trend continued into 2009, with global IT purchases declining due to the challenging global economic environment. We believe that the economic environment in the markets in which many of our clients operate remains unstable, and that the economic conditions in many countries remain challenging and may continue to be challenging in the near future. For instance, in many European countries, large government deficits together with the downgrading of government debt and credit ratings have escalated concerns about continuing weakness in the economies of such countries. Reduced IT spending in response to the challenging economic environment has also led to increased pricing pressure from our clients, which has adversely impacted our revenue productivity, which we define as our revenue divided by billed person months. For instance, during fiscal 2013, our revenue productivity on a blended basis, for services other than for business process management, decreased by 3.0% when compared to fiscal 2012. Many of our clients have also been seeking extensions in credit terms from the standard terms that we provide, including pursuing credit from us for periods of 60 days or more. Extended credit terms may result in reduced revenues in a given period as well as the delay of the realization of revenues, and may adversely affect our cash flows. Additionally, extended credit terms also increase our exposure to customer-specific credit risks. Reductions in IT spending, reductions in revenue productivity, increased credit risk and extended credit terms arising from or related to the global economic slowdown have in the past adversely impacted, and may in the future adversely impact, our revenues, gross profits, operating margins and results of operations. Moreover, in the past, reduced or delayed IT spending has also adversely impacted our utilization rates for technology professionals. For instance, in fiscal 2012, our utilization rate for technology professionals, including trainees, was approximately 69.0%, as compared to 72.1% during fiscal 2011. This decrease in employee utilization rates adversely affected our profitability for fiscal 2012, and any decrease in employee utilization rates in the future, whether on account of reduced or delayed IT spending, may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition to the business challenges and margin pressure resulting from the global economic slowdown and the response of our clients to such slowdown, there is also a growing trend among consumers of IT services towards consolidation of technology service providers in order to improve efficiency and reduce costs. Our success in the competitive bidding process for new consolidation projects or in retaining existing projects is dependent on our ability to fulfill client expectations relating to staffing, efficient offshoring of services, absorption of transition costs, deferment of billing and more stringent service levels. If we fail to meet a client’s expectations in such consolidation projects, this would likely adversely impact our business, revenues and operating margins. In addition, even if we are successful in winning the mandates for such consolidation projects, we may experience significant pressure on our operating margins as a result of the competitive bidding process. Moreover, our ability to maintain or increase pricing is restricted as clients often expect that as we do more business with them, they will receive volume discounts or special pricing incentives. In addition, existing and new customers are also increasingly using third-party consultants with broad market knowledge to assist them in negotiating contractual terms. Any inability to maintain or increase pricing on account of this practice may also adversely impact our revenues, gross profits, operating margins and results of operations. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients concentrated in certain industries, and an economic slowdown or other factors that affect the economic health of the United States, Europe or those industries, or any other impact on the growth of such industries, may affect our business. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, approximately 62.2%, 63.9% and 65.3% of our revenues were derived from projects in North America. In the same periods, approximately 23.1%, 21.9% and 21.5% of our revenues were derived from projects in Europe. The recent instability in the global economy, driven by slower growth in developed markets coupled with the European debt crisis, has had an impact on the growth of the IT industry and may continue to impact it in the future. This instability also impacts our business and results of operations, and may continue to do so in the future. The global economy, driven by slower growth in developed markets coupled with the European debt crisis, could have an impact on the growth of the IT industry. If the United States or European economy remains weak or unstable or weakens further, our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 33.9%, 35.1% and 35.9% of our revenues from the financial services and insurance industry. The crisis in the financial and credit markets in the United States led to significant changes in the financial services industry, with the United States federal government being forced to take over or provide financial support to many leading financial institutions and with some leading investment banks going bankrupt or being forced to sell themselves in distressed circumstances. Global economic uncertainty may result in the reduction, postponement or consolidation of IT spending by our clients, contract terminations, deferrals of projects or delays in purchases, especially in the financial services sector. Any reduction, postponement or consolidation in IT spending may lower the demand for our services or impact the prices that we can obtain for our services and consequently, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Any lingering instability or weakness in the United States economy could have a material adverse impact on our revenues, particularly from businesses in the financial services industry and other industries that are particularly vulnerable to a slowdown in consumer spending. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, we derived approximately 33.9%, 35.1% and 35.9% of our revenues from clients in the financial services and insurance industry, approximately 22.0%, 20.6% and 19.6% of our revenues from clients in the manufacturing industry, approximately 20.2%, 21.4% and 24.0% of our revenues from clients in the energy, utilities, communication and services industry and approximately 23.9%, 22.9% and 20.5% of our revenues from clients in the retail, consumer packaged goods, logistics and life sciences, which industries are especially vulnerable to a slowdown in the U.S. economy. Any weakness in the United States economy or in the industry segments from which we generate revenues could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. Some of the industries in which our clients are concentrated, such as the financial services industry or the energy and utilities industry, are, or may be, increasingly subject to governmental regulation and intervention. For instance, clients in the financial services sector have been subject to increased regulation following the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the United States. Increased regulation, changes in existing regulation or increased governmental intervention in the industries in which our clients operate may adversely affect the growth of their respective businesses and therefore negatively impact our revenues. Currency fluctuations may affect the results or our operations or the value of our ADSs. Our functional currency is the Indian rupee, although we transact a major portion of our business in several currencies, and, accordingly, face foreign currency exposure through our sales in the United States and elsewhere and purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. Generally, we generate the majority of our revenues in foreign currencies, such as the U.S. dollar or the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, and incur the majority of our expenses in Indian rupees. Recently, as a result of the increased volatility in foreign exchange currency markets, there has been increased demand from our clients that all risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations be borne by us. Also, historically, we have held a substantial majority of our cash funds in Indian rupees. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, other income, cost of services sold, gross margin and net income, and may have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. For example, during fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, every percentage point depreciation / appreciation in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar, has affected the company’s operating margins by approximately 0.4%, 0.5% and 0.5%, respectively. The exchange rate between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Australian dollar, has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future, and this fluctuation in currencies had a material and adverse effect on our operating results in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in foreign currencies, including the U.S. dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro and the Australian dollar, for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian rupees. Consequently, the results of our operations are adversely affected as the Indian rupee appreciates against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. We use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on accounts receivable and forecast cash flows denominated in certain foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2013, we had outstanding forward contracts of U.S. $851 million, Euro 62 million, United Kingdom Pound Sterling 65 million and Australian dollar 70 million. We may not purchase derivative instruments adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. For instance, during fiscal 2009, we incurred significant losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations that were not offset in full by our hedging strategy. Additionally, our hedging activities have also contributed to increased losses in recent periods due to volatility in foreign currency markets. For example, in fiscal 2009, we incurred losses of $165 million in our forward and option contracts. These losses, partially offset by gains of $71 million as a result of foreign exchange translations during the same period, resulted in a total loss of $94 million related to foreign currency transactions, which had a significant and adverse effect on our profit margin and results of operations. If foreign currency markets continue to be volatile, such fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our profit margins and results of operations in future periods. Also, the volatility in the foreign currency markets may make it difficult to hedge our foreign currency exposures effectively. Further, the policies of the Reserve Bank of India may change from time to time which may limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposures adequately. For instance, full or increased capital account convertibility, if introduced, could result in increased volatility in the fluctuations of exchange rates between the rupee and foreign currencies. During fiscal 2013, we derived 29.4% of our revenues in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including 6.4%, 8.8% and 8.3% of our revenues in United Kingdom Pound Sterling, Euro and Australian dollars, respectively. During fiscal 2013, the U.S. dollar appreciated against a majority of the currencies in which we transact business, appreciating by 1.3%, 6.5% and 1.9%, against the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, Euro and the Australian dollar, respectively. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar will also affect the dollar conversion by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Depositary with respect to our ADSs, of any cash dividends paid in Indian rupees on the equity shares represented by the ADSs. In addition, these fluctuations will affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Indian rupee price of equity shares on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, the prices of our ADSs in the United States, as well as the U.S. dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any equity shares withdrawn from the Depositary under the Depositary Agreement. Holders may not be able to convert Indian rupee proceeds into U.S. dollars or any other currency, and there is no guarantee of the rate at which any such conversion will occur, if at all. Our success depends largely upon our highly skilled technology professionals and our ability to hire, attract, motivate, retain and train these personnel. Our ability to execute projects, maintain our client relationships and obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technology professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. If we cannot hire, motivate and retain personnel, our ability to bid for projects, obtain new projects and expand our business will be impaired and our revenues could decline. We believe that there is significant worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals. Additionally, technology companies, particularly in India, have recently increased their hiring efforts. Increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals and increased hiring by technology companies may affect our ability to hire an adequate number of skilled and experienced technology professionals and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing competition for technology professionals in India may also impact our ability to retain personnel. For example, our attrition rate for the twelve months ended March 31, 2013 was 16.3%, compared to our attrition rate for the twelve months ended March 31, 2012, which was 14.7%, without accounting for attrition in Infosys BPO or our other subsidiaries. We may not be able to hire enough skilled and experienced technology professionals to replace employees who we are not able to retain. If we are unable to motivate and retain technology professionals, this could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in policies or laws may also affect the ability of technology companies to attract and retain personnel. For instance, the central government or state governments in India may introduce legislation requiring employers to give preferential hiring treatment to underrepresented groups. The quality of our work force is critical to our business. If any such central government or state government legislation becomes effective, our ability to hire the most highly qualified technology professionals may be hindered. In addition, the demands of changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences may require us to redeploy and retrain our technology professionals. If we are unable to redeploy and retrain our technology professionals to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences, this may adversely affect our ability to bid for and obtain new projects and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have grown significantly in recent periods. Between March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2013 our total employees grew from approximately 91,200 to approximately 156,000. We added approximately 6,700, 19,200, 17,000, 8,900 and 13,700 new employees, net of attrition, in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012, fiscal 2011, fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2009, respectively. In addition, in the last five years we have undertaken and continue to undertake major expansions of our existing facilities, as well as the construction of new facilities. We expect our growth to place significant demands on our management team and other resources. Our growth will require us to continuously develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. In addition, continued growth increases the challenges involved in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high quality and process execution standards; preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; successfully expanding the range of services offered to our clients; developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction. Our growth strategy also relies on the expansion of our operations around the world, including Europe, Australia, Latin America and other parts of Asia. During fiscal 2010, Infosys BPO acquired 100% of the voting interest in McCamish Systems LLC (McCamish), a business process solutions provider based in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States. In fiscal 2010, we established a wholly owned subsidiary, Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil, Ltda, in Brazil to provide information technology services in Latin America. Further, during fiscal 2010, we formed Infosys Public Services, Inc. to focus on governmental outsourcing and consulting in the United States. In fiscal 2011, we formed Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited. In fiscal 2012, Infosys BPO completed the acquisition of Portland Group Pty Ltd., a leading provider of strategic sourcing and category management services based in Australia. In fiscal 2013, McCamish completed the acquisition of BPO division of Seabury & Smith Inc., a company providing back office services to life insurers. Further, in fiscal 2013, we completed the acquisition of Lodestone Holding AG, a global management consultancy firm. The costs involved in entering and establishing ourselves in new markets, and expanding such operations, may be higher than expected and we may face significant competition in these regions. Our inability to manage our expansion and related growth in these markets or regions may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions for our clients, which could lead to clients discontinuing their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. Over the past several years, we have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements by extending the breadth of services that we offer. The success of some of our newer service offerings, such as operations and business process consulting, IT consulting, business process management, systems integration and infrastructure management, depends, in part, upon continued demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. In addition, our ability to effectively offer a wider breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to these service offerings. To obtain engagements for our end-to-end solutions, we are competing with large, well-established international consulting firms as well as other India-based technology services companies, resulting in increased competition and marketing costs. Accordingly, our new service offerings may not effectively meet client needs and we may be unable to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex client projects. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients and potentially with other technology service providers and vendors, and require a more thorough understanding of our clients’ operations. Our ability to establish these relationships will depend on a number of factors including the proficiency of our technology professionals and our management personnel. Larger projects often involve multiple components, engagements or stages, and a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally, as opposed to factors related to the quality of our services. Cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and resource planning inaccuracies may have a negative impact on our profitability. Intense competition in the market for technology services could affect our cost advantages, which could reduce our share of business from clients and decrease our revenues. The technology services market is highly competitive. Our competitors include large consulting firms, captive divisions of large multinational technology firms, infrastructure management services firms, Indian technology services firms, software companies and in-house IT departments of large corporations. The technology services industry is experiencing rapid changes that are affecting the competitive landscape, including recent divestitures and acquisitions that have resulted in consolidation within the industry. These changes may result in larger competitors with significant resources. In addition, some of our competitors have added or announced plans to add cost-competitive offshore capabilities to their service offerings. These competitors may be able to offer their services using the offshore and onsite model more efficiently than we can. Many of these competitors are also substantially larger than us and have significant experience with international operations. We may face competition in countries where we currently operate, as well as in countries in which we expect to expand our operations. We also expect additional competition from technology services firms with current operations in other countries, such as China and the Philippines. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues, have more extensive existing client relationships and technology partners and have greater brand recognition than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully against these competitors, or may lose clients to these competitors. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the price at which our competitors offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients’ needs. Our revenues are highly dependent upon a small number of clients, and the loss of any one of our major clients could significantly impact our business. We have historically earned, and believe that in the future we will continue to earn, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, our largest client accounted for 3.8%, 4.3% and 4.7% of our total revenues, respectively, and our five largest clients together accounted for 15.2%, 15.5% and 15.4% of our total revenues respectively. The volume of work we perform for specific clients is likely to vary from year to year, particularly since we historically have not been the exclusive external technology services provider for our clients. Thus, a major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenues in a subsequent year. However, in any given year, a limited number of clients tend to contribute a significant portion of our revenues. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a client and that may not be predictable. In certain cases, we have significantly reduced the services provided to a client when the client either changed its outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or replaced its existing software with packaged software supported by the licensor. Reduced technology spending in response to a challenging economic or competitive environment may also result in our loss of a client. If we lose one of our major clients or one of our major clients significantly reduces its volume of business with us or there is an increase in the accounts receivables from any of our major clients, our revenues and profitability could be reduced. Legislation in certain countries in which we operate, including the United States and the United Kingdom, may restrict companies in those countries from outsourcing work to us, or may limit our ability to send our employees to certain client sites. Recently, some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs. With the growth of offshore outsourcing receiving increased political and media attention, especially in the United States, which is our largest market, and particularly given the prevailing economic environment, it is possible that there could be a change in the existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing or imposing restrictions on the deployment of, and regulating the wages of, work visa holders at client locations, which may adversely impact our ability to do business in the jurisdictions in which we operate, especially with governmental entities. For instance, the Governor of the State of Ohio issued an executive order that prohibits any cabinet agency, board or commission of the State of Ohio from expending public funds for services that are provided offshore. It is also possible that private sector companies working with these governmental entities may be restricted from outsourcing projects related to government contracts or may face disincentives if they outsource certain operations. In addition, the U.S. Congress is considering extensive changes to U.S. immigration laws regarding the admission of high-skilled temporary and permanent workers. Legislation in the U.S. Senate would, among other things, increase the annual H-1B numerical cap from 65,000 to at least 110,000 and would reduce the existing green card backlog for professional workers. However, all employers would be required to pay higher wages to H-1B workers and conduct additional U.S. worker recruitment. Furthermore, the proposed Senate legislation includes several provisions intended to limit the number of H-1B and L-1 workers in a company's U.S. workforce and the ability of a company to place H-1B and L-1B workers at third party worksites. For example, the Senate legislation would prohibit a company from having more than fifty percent of its U.S. workforce in H-1B or L-1 status and a company with more than thirty percent of its U.S. workforce in H-1B or L-1 status would be required to pay an additional $5000 fee per foreign temporary worker. A company with more than fifteen percent of its workforce in H-1B status would be prohibited from placing H-1B workers at third party worksites. If those provisions are signed into law, our cost of doing business in the United States would increase and that may discourage customers from seeking our services. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business, revenues and operating results. Further the recent credit crisis in the United States and elsewhere has also resulted in the United States federal government and governments in Europe acquiring or proposing to acquire equity positions in leading financial institutions and banks. If either the United States federal government or another governmental entity acquires an equity position in any of our clients, any resulting changes in management or reorganizations may result in deferrals or cancellations of projects or delays in purchase decisions, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, equity investments by governmental entities in, or governmental financial aid to, our clients may involve restrictions on the ability of such clients to outsource offshore or otherwise restrict offshore IT vendors from utilizing the services of work visa holders at client locations. Any restriction on our ability to deploy our trained offshore resources at client locations may in turn require us to replace our existing offshore resources with local resources, or hire additional local resources, which local resources may only be available at higher wages. Any resulting increase in our compensation, hiring and training expenses could adversely impact our revenues and operating profitability. In addition, the European Union (EU) member states have adopted the Acquired Rights Directive, while some European countries outside of the EU have enacted similar legislation. The Acquired Rights Directive and certain local laws in European countries that implement the Acquired Rights Directive, such as the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employees) Regulations, or TUPE, in the United Kingdom, allow employees who are dismissed as a result of “service provision changes”, which may include outsourcing to non-EU companies, to seek compensation either from the company from which they were dismissed or from the company to which the work was transferred. This could deter EU companies from outsourcing work to us and could also result in us being held liable for redundancy payments to such workers. Any such event could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, Europe and other jurisdictions, which could hamper our growth or cause our revenues to decline. The vast majority of our employees are Indian nationals. Most of our projects require a portion of the work to be completed at the client’s location. The ability of our technology professionals to work in the United States, Europe and in other countries depends on the ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. As of March 31, 2013, the majority of our technology professionals in the United States held either H-1B visas (approximately 10,800 persons), which allow the employee to remain in the United States for up to six years during the term of the work permit and work as long as he or she remains an employee of the sponsoring firm, or L-1 visas (approximately 1,600 persons) which allow the employee to stay in the United States only temporarily. Although there is no limit to new L-1 visas, there is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B visas that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, or CIS, may approve in any government fiscal year which is 65,000 annually, plus 20,000 additional H-1B visas that are available to skilled workers who possess a Master's or higher degree from institutions of higher education in the United States. Further, in response to the terrorist attacks in the United States, the CIS has increased its level of scrutiny in granting new visas. This may, in the future, also lead to limits on the number of L-1 visas granted. In addition, the granting of L-1 visas precludes companies from obtaining such visas for employees with specialized knowledge: (1) if such employees will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another company in the U.S. and the employee will not be controlled and supervised by his or her employer, or (2) if such offsite placement is essentially an arrangement to provide labor for hire rather than in connection with the employee's specialized knowledge. Immigration laws in the United States or other jurisdictions where we conduct business may also require us to meet certain levels of compensation, and to comply with other legal requirements, including labor certifications, as a condition to obtaining or maintaining work visas for our technology professionals working in such countries. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. In addition, the U.S. Congress is considering extensive changes to U.S. immigration laws regarding the admission of high-skilled temporary and permanent workers. Legislation in the U.S. Senate would, among other things, increase the annual H-1B numerical cap from 65,000 to at least 110,000 and would reduce the existing green card backlog for professional workers. However, all employers would be required to pay higher wages to H-1B workers and conduct additional U.S. worker recruitment. Furthermore, the proposed Senate legislation includes several provisions intended to limit the number of H-1B and L-1 workers in a company's U.S. workforce and the ability of a company to place H-1B and L-1B workers at third party worksites. For example, the Senate legislation would prohibit a company from having more than fifty percent of its U.S. workforce in H-1B or L-1 status and a company with more than thirty percent of its U.S. workforce in H-1B or L-1 status would be required to pay an additional $5000 fee per foreign temporary worker. A company with more than fifteen percent of its workforce in H-1B status would be prohibited from placing H-1B workers at third party worksites. If those provisions are signed into law, our cost of doing business in the United States would increase and that may discourage customers from seeking our services. This could have a material and adverse effect on our business, revenues and operating results. In addition, the U.K. government has recently introduced an interim limit on the number of visas that may be granted. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. Our reliance on work visas for a significant number of technology professionals makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations as it affects our ability to staff projects with technology professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. Recently, there has been an increase in the number of rejections of visa applications. This may affect our ability to get timely visas and accordingly staff projects. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our technology professionals or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining the conditions of such visas. Additionally, we may have to apply in advance for visas and this could result in additional expenses during certain quarters of the fiscal year. In addition, in the event that any governmental authority undertakes any actions which limit any visa program that we utilize, or imposes sanctions, fines or penalties on us or our employees, this could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. This could potentially increase the rejection rates of our visa applications which would impact our onsite staffing. On May 23, 2011, we received a subpoena from a grand jury in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas. The subpoena required that we provide to the grand jury certain documents and records related to our sponsorships for, and uses of, B1 business visas. We have complied with the subpoena. In connection with the subpoena, during a meeting with the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Texas, we were advised that we and certain of our employees are targets of the grand jury investigation. In addition, we were recently advised that this investigation was continuing and additional subpoenas may be issued. We are engaged in discussions with the U.S. Attorney’s Office regarding this matter; however, we cannot predict the final outcome of the investigation or the discussions with the U.S. Attorney’s Office. In addition, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”) has reviewed our employer eligibility verifications on Form I-9 with respect to our employees working in the United States. In connection with this review, we have been advised that the DHS has found errors in a significant percentage of our Forms I-9 that the DHS has reviewed, and may impose fines and penalties on us related to such alleged errors. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the discussions with DHS or other governmental authority regarding the review of our Forms I-9. In the event that the U.S. government undertakes any actions which limit the B-1 business visa program or other visa program that we utilize, this could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Further, in the event that any governmental authority imposes sanctions, fines or penalties on us or our employees, this could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In light of the fact that, among other things, the grand jury is continuing its investigation and we remain in discussions with the U.S. Attorney’s Office regarding these matters, we are unable to make an estimate of the amount or range of loss that we expect to incur in connection with the resolution of these matters. In addition, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims, which have arisen in the ordinary course of our business. Our management does not reasonably expect that these legal actions, when ultimately concluded and determined, will have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our success depends in large part upon our management team and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain them. We are highly dependent on the senior members of our board of directors, or the Board, and the management team, including the continued efforts of our Co-Chairman, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, other executive members of the Board and members of our executive council, which consists of certain executive and other officers. Our future performance will be affected by any disruptions in the continued service of our directors, executives and other officers. For instance, in fiscal 2012, there were significant changes to our Board and senior management, including the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and a new Chairman of our Board. In fiscal 2012, we internally reorganized our business units, which could have operational risks, including potential attrition of some key senior management personnel. On November 1, 2012, Mr. Rajiv Bansal replaced Mr. V. Balakrishnan as our Chief Financial Officer. We cannot assure you that the departure of directors and the transition of management personnel will not cause disruption to our operations or customer relationships, or materially impact our results of operations. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain senior management personnel or attract and retain new senior management personnel in the future. Furthermore, we do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to complete fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts or transaction-based pricing contracts within budget and on time may negatively affect our profitability. As an element of our business strategy, in response to client requirements and pressures on IT budgets, we are offering an increasing portion of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, rather than on a time-and-materials basis. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, revenues from fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects accounted for 40.0%, 39.3% and 40.3% of our total services revenues, respectively, including revenues from our business process management services. In addition, pressure on the IT budgets of our clients has led us to deviate from our standard pricing policies and to offer varied pricing models to our clients in certain situations in order to remain competitive. For example, we have recently begun entering into transaction-based pricing contracts with certain clients who were not previously offered such terms in order to give our clients the flexibility to pay as they use our services. The risk of entering into fixed-price, fixed-timeframe arrangements and transaction-based pricing arrangements is that if we fail to properly estimate the appropriate pricing for a project, we may incur lower profits or losses as a result of being unable to execute projects on the timeframe and with the amount of labor we expected. Although we use our software engineering methodologies and processes and past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects and transaction-based pricing projects, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to estimate accurately the resources and time required for a project, future wage inflation rates, or currency exchange rates, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. We expect that we will continue to enter into fixed-price, fixed-timeframe and transaction-based pricing engagements in the future, and such engagements may increase in relation to the revenues generated from engagements on a time-and-materials basis, which would increase the risks to our business. Our client contracts can typically be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Most of our client contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, can be terminated with or without cause, with between zero and 90 days notice and without any termination-related penalties. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, and there are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control which might lead to termination of a project or the loss of a client, including: financial difficulties for a client; a change in strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of technology spending; a demand for price reductions; a change in outsourcing strategy by moving more work to the client’s in-house technology departments or to our competitors; the replacement by our clients of existing software with packaged software supported by licensors; mergers and acquisitions; consolidation of technology spending by a client, whether arising out of mergers and acquisitions, or otherwise; and sudden ramp-downs in projects due to an uncertain economic environment. Our inability to control the termination of client contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our engagements with customers are singular in nature and do not necessarily provide for subsequent engagements. Our clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific projects, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Although a substantial majority of our revenues are generated from repeat business, which we define as revenue from a client who also contributed to our revenue during the prior fiscal year, our engagements with our clients are typically for projects that are singular in nature. Therefore, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or terminated, and we are constantly seeking to expand our business with existing clients and secure new clients for our services. In addition, in order to continue expanding our business, we may need to significantly expand our sales and marketing group, which would increase our expenses and may not necessarily result in a substantial increase in business. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements for projects on a continual basis, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Our client contracts are often conditioned upon our performance, which, if unsatisfactory, could result in less revenue than previously anticipated. A number of our contracts have incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition some or all of our fees on our ability to meet defined performance goals or service levels. Our failure to meet these goals or a client’s expectations in such performance-based contracts may result in a less profitable or an unprofitable engagement. Some of our long-term client contracts contain benchmarking provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and profitability under the contract. As the size and duration of our client engagements increase, clients may increasingly require benchmarking provisions. Benchmarking provisions allow a customer in certain circumstances to request a benchmark study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing our pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services to that of an agreed upon list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to reduce the pricing for future services performed under the balance of the contract, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Benchmarking provisions in our client engagements may have a greater impact on our results of operations during an economic slowdown, because pricing pressure and the resulting decline in rates may lead to a reduction in fees that we charge to clients that have benchmarking provisions in their engagements with us. Our increasing work with governmental agencies may expose us to additional risks. Currently, the vast majority of our clients are privately or publicly owned. However, we are increasingly bidding for work with governments and governmental agencies, both within and outside the United States. Projects involving governments or governmental agencies carry various risks inherent in the government contracting process, including the following: Such projects may be subject to a higher risk of reduction in scope or termination than other contracts due to political and economic factors such as changes in government, pending elections or the reduction in, or absence of, adequate funding. Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous than other contracts and may include, among other things, extensive rights of audit, more punitive service level penalties and other restrictive covenants. Also, the terms of such contracts are often subject to change due to political and economic factors. Government contracts are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than other contracts. Any negative publicity related to such contracts, regardless of the accuracy of such publicity, may adversely affect our business or reputation. Participation in government contracts could subject us to stricter regulatory requirements, which may increase our cost of compliance. Such projects may involve multiple parties in the delivery of services and require greater project management efforts on our part, and any failure in this regard may adversely impact our performance. In addition, we operate in jurisdictions in which local business practices may be inconsistent with international regulatory requirements, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations prescribed under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, which, among other things, prohibits giving or offering to give anything of value with the intent to influence the awarding of government contracts. Although we believe that we have adequate policies and enforcement mechanisms to ensure legal and regulatory compliance with the FCPA, the Bribery Act 2010 and other similar regulations, it is possible that some of our employees, subcontractors, agents or partners may violate any such legal and regulatory requirements, which may expose us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, including penalties and suspension or disqualification from U.S. federal procurement contracting. If we fail to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, our business and reputation may be harmed. Any of the above factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business or our results of operations. Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and in the industries on which we focus. The technology services market is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet client needs. We may fail to anticipate or respond to these advances in a timely basis, or, if we do respond, the services or technologies that we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. The development of some of the services and technologies may involve significant upfront investments and the failure of these services and technologies may result in our being unable to recover these investments, in part or in full. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. We have recently introduced, and propose to introduce, several new solutions involving complex delivery models combined with innovative, and often transaction-based, pricing models. Some of our solutions, including the Software as a Service, or SaaS, solution, are often based on a transaction-based pricing model even though these solutions require us to incur significant upfront costs. The advent of new technologies like cloud computing, and new initiatives, such as enterprise mobility and environment sustainability, and the pace of adoption of new technologies and initiatives by clients could have potential impact on our growth. The complexity of these solutions, our inexperience in developing or implementing them and significant competition in the markets for these solutions may affect our ability to market these solutions successfully. Further, customers may not adopt these solutions widely and we may be unable to recover any investments made in these solutions. Even if these solutions are successful in the market, the dependence of these solutions on third-party hardware and software and on our ability to meet stringent service levels in providing maintenance or support services may result in our being unable to deploy these solutions successfully or profitably. Further, where we offer a transaction-based pricing model in connection with an engagement, we may also be unable to recover any upfront costs incurred in solutions deployed by us in full. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, New York Stock Exchange rules, NYSE Euronext Paris rules, NYSE Euronext London rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules and Indian stock market listing regulations create uncertainty for our company. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources and our independent auditor’s independent assessment of the internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2013, our management assessed our internal controls over financial reporting, and determined that our internal controls were effective as of March 31, 2013. However, we will undertake management assessments of our internal control over financial reporting in connection with each annual report, and any deficiencies uncovered by these assessments or any inability of our auditors to issue an unqualified opinion could harm our reputation and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. Further, since 2009 and continuing into 2013, there has been an increased focus on corporate governance by the U.S. Congress and by the SEC in response to the credit and financial crisis in the United States. As a result of this increased focus, additional corporate governance standards have been promulgated with respect to companies whose securities are listed in the United States, including standards promulgated pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and more governance standards are expected to be imposed on companies whose securities are listed in the United States in the future. It is also possible that laws in India may be made more stringent with respect to standards of accounting, auditing, public disclosure and corporate governance. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, it may become more expensive or more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our Board members, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties and our SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified Board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, or virus attacks could harm our ability to execute our Global Delivery Model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues. A significant element of our distributed project management methodology, which we refer to as our Global Delivery Model, is to continue to leverage and expand our global development centers. We currently have 87 global development centers located in various countries around the world. Our global development centers are linked with a telecommunications network architecture that uses multiple service providers and various satellite and optical links with alternate routing. We may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our various global development centers and our clients’ sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant failure in our ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client and customer data. Many of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses, and provide benefits which may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client’s system or breaches of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a client, or poor execution of such services, could result in a client terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. Although we generally attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, however, this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms and may be unavailable in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. Also an insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, could adversely affect our operating results. Recently, many of our clients have been seeking more favorable terms from us in our contracts, particularly in connection with clauses related to the limitation of our liability for damages resulting from unsatisfactory performance of services. The inclusion of such terms in our client contracts, particularly where they relate to our attempt to limit our contractual liability for damages, may increase our exposure to liability in the case of our failure to perform services in a manner required under the relevant contracts. Further, any damages resulting from such failure, particularly where we are unable to recover such damages in full from our insurers, may adversely impact our business, revenues and operating margins. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. As of March 31, 2013, we had contractual commitments of approximately $312 million for capital expenditures, including commitments related to the expansion or construction of facilities. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with expansion of existing facilities and construction of new facilities. Expansions of existing facilities and construction of new facilities will increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. We may be unable to recoup our investment costs to develop our software products. In fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, we earned 4.0%, 4.6% and 4.9% of our total revenue from the licensing of software products, respectively. The development of our software products requires significant investments. The markets for our primary suite of software products, which we call FinacleTM, are competitive. Our current software products or any new software products that we develop may not be commercially successful and the costs of developing such new software products may not be recouped. Since software product revenues typically occur in periods subsequent to the periods in which the costs are incurred for the development of such software products, delayed revenues may cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results. We may engage in acquisitions, strategic investments, strategic partnerships or alliances or other ventures that may or may not be successful. We may acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties in order to enhance our business. For example, during fiscal 2010, Infosys BPO completed the acquisition of McCamish Systems LLC, a business process solutions provider based in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States. In fiscal 2012, Infosys BPO completed the acquisition of Portland Group Pty Ltd., a leading provider of strategic sourcing and category management services based in Australia. In fiscal 2013, we acquired Lodestone Holding AG, a global management consultancy firm. It is possible that we may not identify suitable acquisitions, candidates for strategic investment or strategic partnerships, or if we do identify suitable targets, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. Our inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or our inability to complete such transactions may affect our competitiveness and growth prospects. Even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms or the target may be acquired by another company. Furthermore, in the event that we are able to identify and consummate any future acquisitions, we could: issue equity securities which would dilute current shareholders’ percentage ownership; incur substantial debt; incur significant acquisition-related expenses; assume contingent liabilities; or expend significant cash. These financing activities or expenditures could harm our business, operating results and financial condition or the price of our common stock. Alternatively, due to difficulties in the capital and credit markets, we may be unable to secure capital on acceptable terms, if at all, to complete acquisitions. Moreover, even if we do obtain benefits from acquisitions in the form of increased sales and earnings, there may be a delay between the time when the expenses associated with an acquisition are incurred and the time when we recognize such benefits. Further, if we acquire a company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. We have made, and may in the future make, strategic investments in early-stage technology start-up companies in order to gain experience in or exploit niche technologies. However, our investments may not be successful. The lack of profitability of any of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may be the subject of litigation which, if adversely determined, could harm our business and operating results. We are, and may in the future be, subject to legal claims arising in the normal course of business. An unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could require that we pay substantial damages, or, in connection with any intellectual property infringement claims, could require that we pay ongoing royalty payments or prevent us from selling certain of our products. In addition, we may decide to settle any litigation, which could cause us to incur significant costs. A settlement or an unfavorable outcome on any litigation matter could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial position or cash flows. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other natural and manmade disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, floods, tsunamis and other natural and manmade disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses or be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. For instance, as a result of the natural disasters in Japan in March 2011, and the resulting fallout of nuclear radiation from damaged nuclear power plants, we were required to temporarily relocate some of the employees from our offices in Japan to India. In addition, if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption, which may materially impair our ability to provide services to our customers and may limit their ability to continue their purchase of products or services from us. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies and International Operations Generally Our net income would decrease if the Government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it provides to us or when our tax holidays expire or terminate. We have benefited from certain tax incentives the Government of India had provided to the export of software from specially designated software technology parks, or STPs, in India and we continue to benefit from certain tax incentives for facilities set up under the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005. However, the tax incentives provided by the Government of India for STPs have expired, and all of our STP units are now taxable. In the Finance Act, 2005, the Government of India introduced a separate tax holiday scheme for units set up under designated special economic zones, or SEZs, engaged in manufacture of articles or in provision of services. Under this scheme, units in designated SEZs which begin providing services on or after April 1, 2005, will be eligible for a deduction of 100% of profits or gains derived from the export of software or services for the first five years from commencement of provision of software or services and 50% of such profits or gains for the following five years. Certain tax benefits are also available for five additional years subject to the unit meeting defined conditions. As a result of these tax incentives, a portion of our pre-tax income has not been subject to tax in recent years. These tax incentives resulted in a decrease of $202 million, $202 million and $173 million in our income tax expense for fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 respectively, compared to the effective tax amounts that we estimate we would have been required to pay if these incentives had not been available. The per share effect of these tax incentives for the fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 was $0.35, $0.35 and $0.30, respectively. Some of our Indian software development centers located in Chandigarh, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mangalore, Mysore, Pune, Trivandrum, Jaipur and Bangalore currently operate in SEZs and many of our proposed development centers are likely to operate in SEZs. If the Government of India changes its policies affecting SEZs in a manner that adversely impacts the incentives for establishing and operating facilities in SEZs, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In August 2010, the Direct Taxes Code Bill, 2010 was introduced in the Indian Parliament. The Direct Taxes Code Bill, if enacted, is intended to replace the Indian Income Tax Act. The Direct Taxes Code Bill proposes that while profit-linked tax benefits for existing units in SEZs will continue for the unexpired portions of the applicable tax holiday period, such tax benefits will not be available to new units in SEZs that were notified after March 31, 2012 and will become operational after March 31, 2014. Further, the Finance Act, 2007, had included income eligible for deductions under Section 10A of the Indian Income Tax Act in the computation of book profits for the levy of a Minimum Alternate Tax, or MAT. Effective April 1, 2011, the Finance Act, 2011 extended MAT to SEZ operating and developer units. Income in respect of which a deduction may be claimed under section 10AA or section 80IAB of the Indian Income Tax Act therefore has to be included in book profits for computing MAT liability. The Finance Act, 2013 has increased the surcharge on income of domestic companies having taxable income above 100,000,000 from 5% to 10%. This has resulted in the increase in effective MAT rate for such companies to 20.96% from 20.01%. With our growth of business in SEZ units, we may have to compute our tax liability under MAT in future years. The Income Tax Act provides that the MAT paid by us can be adjusted against our regular tax liability over the next ten years. Although MAT paid by us can be set off against our future tax liability, due to the introduction of MAT, our net income and cash flows for intervening periods could be adversely affected. The Direct Taxes Code Bill also proposes the rate of MAT to be 20% (including surcharges) on the book profits of domestic companies, and the amounts paid towards MAT are expected to be adjusted against regular tax liability over a fifteen year period. The expiration, modification or termination of any of our tax benefits or holidays, including on account of non-availability of the SEZ tax holiday scheme pursuant to the enactment of the Direct Taxes Code Bill, would likely increase our effective tax rates significantly. Any increase in our effective tax liability in India could have a material and adverse effect on our net income. In the event that the Government of India or the government of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase, reducing our profitability. In the Finance Act, 2012, the Government of India proposed to levy service tax based on a negative list of services. Consequently, all services are likely to become taxable, except notified exempted services. Further, the rate of service tax has been increased from 10% to 12%. This would increase the cost of input services. Although currently there are no material pending or threatened claims against us for service taxes, such claims may be asserted against us in the future. Defending these claims would be expensive, time consuming and may divert our management’s attention and resources from operating our business. Additionally, the Finance Act 2012 adopted the General Anti Avoidance Rules (GAAR). Pursuant to GAAR, an arrangement in which the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, is to obtain a tax benefit may be declared an ‘impermissible avoidance arrangement’ if it also satisfies at least one of the following four tests: (a) The arrangement creates rights and obligations, which are not normally created between parties dealing at arm’s length. (b) It results in misuse or abuse of provisions of tax laws. (c) It lacks commercial substance or is deemed to lack commercial substance. (d) It is carried out in a manner, which is normally not employed for a bona fide purpose. The procedural and administrative mechanism for the implementation of GAAR is still being finalized. If any of our transactions are found to be impermissible avoidance arrangements under GAAR, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The GAAR was originally proposed to become effective on April 1, 2013. Based on the recommendation of a panel which was formed to study proposed GAAR provisions, the GAAR provisions are now proposed to be effective on April 1, 2016. The Finance Act, 2012 has also made certain retrospective amendments effective June 1, 1976, such as broadening the term ‘royalty’. Any retrospective tax amendments may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Finance Act, 2013 has increased the tax withholding rate from 10% to 25% in respect of the payment to be made to non-residents towards "Royalty" and/or "Fees for Technical Services". However, an option to follow a rate prescribed under the applicable Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement has been given subject to fulfillment of prescribed conditions and documentation. As we procure various software licenses and technical services from non-residents in course of delivering our products and services to our clients, the cost of purchase of such software and services may increase for us. We operate in jurisdictions that impose transfer pricing and other tax-related regulations on us, and any failure to comply could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with various transfer pricing regulations in India and other countries. Failure to comply with such regulations may impact our effective tax rates and consequently affect our net margins. Additionally, we operate in several countries and our failure to comply with the local and municipal tax regime may result in additional taxes, penalties and enforcement actions from such authorities. In the event that we do not properly comply with transfer pricing and tax-related regulations, our profitability may be adversely affected. Wage pressures in India and the hiring of employees outside India may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margins. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive strengths. Although, currently, a vast majority of our workforce consists of Indian nationals, we expect to increase hiring in other jurisdictions, including the United States and Europe. Any such recruitment of foreign nationals is likely to be at wages higher than those prevailing in India and may increase our operating costs and adversely impact our profitability. Further, in certain jurisdictions in which we operate, legislation has been adopted that requires our non-resident alien employees working in such jurisdictions to earn the same wages as similarly situated residents or citizens of such jurisdiction. In jurisdictions where this is required, the compensation expenses for our non-resident alien employees would adversely impact our results of operations. For example, recently, the minimum wages for certain work permit holders in the United Kingdom have been increased, thereby increasing the cost of conducting business in that jurisdiction. Additionally, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We have historically experienced significant competition for employees from large multinational companies that have established and continue to establish offshore operations in India, as well as from companies within India. This competition has led to wage pressures in attracting and retaining employees, and these wage pressures have led to a situation where wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in increased costs for companies seeking to employ technology professionals in India, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive with other employers, or seek to recruit in other low labor cost jurisdictions to keep our wage costs low. For example, we established a long term retention bonus policy for our senior executives and employees. Under this policy, certain senior executives and employees will be entitled to a yearly cash bonus upon their continued employment with us based upon seniority, their role in the company and their performance. Typically, we undertake an annual compensation review, and, pursuant to such review, the average salaries of our employees have increased significantly. Any compensation increases in the future may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In certain years, we may not give wage increases due to adverse market conditions while our competitors may still give wage increases. This may result in higher attrition rates and may impact our ability to hire the best talent. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 25, 2008 in Bangalore, the attacks of November 26 to 29, 2008 and July 13, 2011 in Mumbai and other acts of violence or war, such as the continuing conflict in Afghanistan, have the potential to directly impact our clients or us. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the United States or Europe, our business may be significantly impacted, as the majority of our revenues are derived from clients located in the United States and Europe. In addition, such attacks may destabilize the economic and political situation in India, may make travel more difficult, may make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of our technology professionals who are required to work in the United States or Europe, and may effectively reduce our ability to deliver our services to our clients. Such obstacles to business may increase our expenses and negatively affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, any attacks in India could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our clients, and could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our clients or potential clients to choose other vendors for the services we provide. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could make travel more difficult, may disrupt our ability to provide services to our clients and could delay, postpone or cancel our clients’ decisions to use our services. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. In recent years, there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan that have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border. Further, in recent months, Pakistan has been experiencing significant instability and this has heightened the risks of conflict in South Asia. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Changes in the policies of the Government of India or political instability could delay the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally, which could impact our business and prospects. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Central and State governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The current Government of India, formed in May 2009, has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization policies pursued by previous governments. However, these liberalization policies may not continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular. Some of our software development centers located at Chandigarh, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mangalore, Mysore, Pune, Trivandrum, Bangalore and Jaipur currently operate in SEZs and many of our proposed development centers are likely to operate in SEZs. If the Government of India changes its policies affecting SEZs in a manner that adversely impact the incentives for establishing and operating facilities in SEZs, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Political instability could also delay the reform of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Our international expansion plans subject us to risks inherent in doing business internationally. Currently, we have global development centers in 23 countries around the world, with our largest development centers located in India. We have recently established or intend to establish new development facilities. During fiscal 2010, Infosys BPO acquired 100% of the voting interest in McCamish Systems LLC, a business process solutions provider based in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States. In fiscal 2010, we established a wholly owned subsidiary, Infosys Tecnologia do Brasil Ltda in Brazil to provide information technology services in Latin America. Further, during fiscal 2010, we formed Infosys Public Services, Inc. to focus on governmental outsourcing and consulting in the United States and in fiscal 2011, we formed Infosys Technologies (Shanghai) Company Limited to further expand our operations in China. In fiscal 2012, Infosys BPO completed the acquisition of Portland Group Pty Ltd., a leading provider of strategic sourcing and category management services based in Australia. In fiscal 2013, Infosys Limited completed the acquisition of Lodestone Holding AG, a global management consultancy firm. We also have a very large workforce spread across our various offices worldwide. As of March 31, 2013, we employed approximately 156,000 employees worldwide, and approximately 36,500 of those employees were located outside of India. Because of our global presence, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to compliance with a wide variety of treaties, national and local laws, including multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes, privacy laws and laws dealing with data protection, export control laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and national and local labor laws dealing with immigration, employee health and safety, and wages and benefits, applicable to our employees located in our various international offices and facilities. We may from time to time be subject to litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former employees, individually or as part of a class action, including for claims of wrongful termination, discrimination (including on grounds of nationality, ethnicity, race, faith, gender, marital status, age or disability), misclassification, payment of redundancy payments under TUPE-type legislation, or other violations of labor laws, or other alleged conduct. Our being held liable for unpaid compensation, redundancy payments, statutory penalties, and other damages arising out of such actions and litigations could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. For example, in December 2007, we entered into a voluntary settlement with the California Division of Labor Standards Enforcement regarding the potential misclassification of certain of our current and former employees, whereby we agreed to pay overtime wages that may have been owed to such employees. The total settlement amount was approximately $26 million, including penalties and taxes. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. As an international company, our offshore and onsite operations may also be impacted by disease, epidemics and local political instability. For instance, some of the regions in which we operate, including North Africa, have experienced political instability in recent times, which required us to temporarily redeploy some of our personnel and property from those regions. Political instability in the regions in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on revenues and profitability. Our international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of India and many of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Virtually all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, holders of our ADSs may be unable to effect service of process upon us outside the United States. In addition, holders of our ADSs may be unable to enforce judgments against us if such judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States on the basis of civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, would not be enforceable in India. However, the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered may bring a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the United States. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to repatriate any amount recovered pursuant to the execution of such a judgment. Holders of ADSs are subject to the Securities and Exchange Board of India’s Takeover Code with respect to their acquisitions of ADSs or the underlying equity shares, and this may impose requirements on such holders with respect to disclosure and offers to purchase additional ADSs or equity shares. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011 (the Takeover Code) is applicable to publicly listed Indian companies. Therefore, the provisions of the Takeover Code apply to us and to any person acquiring our equity shares or voting rights in our company, such as those represented by our ADSs. Upon the acquisition of shares or voting rights in a publicly listed Indian company such that the aggregate share-holding of the acquirer (meaning a person who directly or indirectly, acquires or agrees to acquire shares or voting rights in a target company, or acquires or agrees to acquire control over the target company, either by himself or together with any person acting in concert) is 5% or more of the shares of the company, the acquirer is required, within two working days of such acquisition, to disclose the aggregate shareholding and voting rights in the company to the company and to the stock exchanges in which the shares of the company are listed. Further, an acquirer who, together with persons acting in concert with him, holds shares or voting rights entitling them to 5% or more of the shares or voting rights in a target company, acquires or sells shares representing 2% or more of the shares or voting rights of the company must disclose, within two working days of such acquisition, sale or receipt of intimation of allotment of such shares, the acquirer's revised shareholding to the company and to the stock exchanges on which the shares of the company are listed. This disclosure is required, in case of a sale, even if such sale results in the shareholding of the acquirer falling below 5% The Takeover Code may impose conditions that discourage a potential acquirer, which could prevent an acquisition of our company in a transaction that could be beneficial for our equity holders. The laws of India do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. We may also be subject to third party claims of intellectual property infringement. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. However, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our products, services or proprietary information. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defense against these claims, even if such claims are not meritorious, could be expensive and time consuming and may divert our management’s attention and resources from operating our company. From time to time, third parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us or our customers. Our business partners may have similar claims asserted against them. A number of third parties, including companies with greater resources than us, have asserted patent rights to technologies that we utilize in our business. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications or products that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. An unfavorable outcome in connection with any infringement claim against us as a result of litigation, other proceeding or settlement, could have a material and adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position. Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India depends on the approval of the Government of India and/or the Reserve Bank of India, and failure to obtain this approval could negatively impact our business. Generally, the Reserve Bank of India must approve any acquisition by us of any company organized outside of India. The Reserve Bank of India permits acquisitions of companies organized outside of India by an Indian party without approval if the transaction consideration is paid in cash, the transaction value does not exceed 400% of the net worth of the acquiring company as of the date of the acquiring company’s latest audited balance sheet, or if the acquisition is funded with cash from the acquiring company’s existing foreign currency accounts or with cash proceeds from the issuance of ADRs/GDRs. It is possible that any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained. Our failure to obtain approvals for acquisitions of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. Indian laws limit our ability to raise capital outside India and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which could prevent us from operating our business or entering into a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Indian law relating to foreign exchange management constrains our ability to raise capital outside India through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. Generally, any foreign investment in, or acquisition of, an Indian company does not require the approval from relevant government authorities in India, including the Reserve Bank of India. However, in a number of industrial sectors, there are restrictions on foreign investment in Indian companies. Changes to the policies may create restrictions on our capital raising abilities. For example, a limit on the foreign equity ownership of Indian technology companies or pricing restrictions on the issuance of ADRs/GDRs may constrain our ability to seek and obtain additional equity investment by foreign investors. In addition, these restrictions, if applied to us, may prevent us from entering into certain transactions, such as an acquisition by a non-Indian company, which might otherwise be beneficial for us and the holders of our equity shares and ADSs. Risks Related to the ADSs Historically, our ADSs have traded at a significant premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares, and may not continue to do so in the future. Historically, our ADSs have traded at a premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on the Indian stock exchanges. We believe that this price premium has resulted from the relatively small portion of our market capitalization previously represented by ADSs, restrictions imposed by Indian law on the conversion of equity shares into ADSs and an apparent preference of some investors to trade dollar-denominated securities. We have already completed three secondary ADS offerings and the completion of any additional secondary ADS offering will significantly increase the number of our outstanding ADSs. Also, over time, some of the restrictions on the issuance of ADSs imposed by Indian law have been relaxed and we expect that other restrictions may be relaxed in the future. As a result, the historical premium enjoyed by ADSs as compared to equity shares may be reduced or eliminated upon the completion of any additional secondary offering of our ADSs or similar transactions in the future, a change in Indian law permitting further conversion of equity shares into ADSs or changes in investor preferences. In the past several years, a significant number of our ADSs have been converted into equity shares in India as the premium on ADSs compared to equity shares has significantly narrowed. If a substantial amount of our ADSs are converted into underlying equity shares in India, it could affect the liquidity of such ADSs on the NYSE and could impact the price of our ADSs. Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our equity shares, including sales by our insiders in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our equity shares or the ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders as we have done in the past, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares, or the availability of our equity shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Negative media coverage and public scrutiny may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Media coverage and public scrutiny of our business practices, policies and actions has increased dramatically over the past several years, particularly through the use of Internet forums and blogs. Any negative media coverage in relation to our business, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made, may adversely impact our reputation. Responding to allegations made in the media may be time consuming and could divert the time and attention of our senior management from our business. Any unfavorable publicity may also adversely impact investor confidence and result in sales of our equity shares and ADSs, which may lead to a decline in the share price of our equity shares and our ADSs. Indian law imposes certain restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to transfer the equity shares obtained upon conversion of ADSs and repatriate the proceeds of such transfer which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares may be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and then repatriate that foreign currency from India, he or she will have to obtain Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms favorable to a non-resident investor or at all. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of such investor’s equity interest in us. Under the Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shareholders voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the Depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the Depositary will electronically mail to holders of our ADSs any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions from a holder of our ADSs in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to such holder, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by such holder’s ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that holders of our ADSs will receive voting materials in time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the Depositary in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our equity shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. 