Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) Competition Each of Berkshire’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic operators and international operators. While Berkshire’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the long-term through developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. Berkshire’s class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than its class A common stock. Each share of class A common stock is convertible into thirty shares of class B common stock, but shares of class B common stock are not convertible into shares of class A common stock or any other security. Although a share of class B common stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of class A common stock, it is unlikely that a share of class B common stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of class A common stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of class B common stock are entitled to only one two-hundredth of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire stockholders. Unfavorable economic and political conditions in international markets could hurt Berkshire’s businesses. Historically, Berkshire has derived a relatively small amount of its revenues and earnings from international markets. In recent years, international business was concentrated in the insurance businesses, which are conducted primarily in Western Europe, United Kingdom, Japan, Australia and other regions where relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of Berkshire’s recent business acquisitions including 80% of IMC on July 5, 2006, Berkshire may be subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest in international markets. IMC’s headquarters are located in Israel and substantial business operations are conducted in Israel and Korea. Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in the Middle East, could adversely impact Berkshire’s businesses, including internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities deriving from unstable conditions could produce significant losses to Berkshire’s worldwide operations, including manufacturing, service, utility and insurance operations based in the United States. Business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human resources and destruction of production facilities. Risks unique to utilities and energy businesses. For the most part, Berkshire’s utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute electricity and transport and distribute natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. The regulatory process determines the terms and conditions of providing utility service, including the rates that may be charged to customers. The results of this process may not permit the recovery of all costs incurred by the utilities. Regulations also concern safety, environmental and operational compliance or remediation as well as other matters. Adverse new regulations or reinterpretations of existing regulations as well as the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant impact on periodic results of operations. The nature of the utilities and energy business is that significant amounts of capital are employed to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of borrowed funds are employed in the process. Such systems may need to be operational for very long periods of time in order to justify the financial cost. The risk of financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers. Governmental Investigations. Certain of Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly General Re Corporation and some of its subsidiaries, are subject to ongoing investigations by U.S. federal and state governmental authorities, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, the New York State Attorney General, the Office of the Connecticut Attorney General and various state insurance departments, and by certain foreign governmental authorities, relating to non-traditional products and in some cases to transactions with other insurers. These investigations are described under Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcomes of these investigations, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 19 Table of Contents 