ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS ITEM 2 PROPERTIES ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTSON FORM 8-K SIGNATURES EXHIBIT INDEX Ex-21 Subsidiaries Ex-31.1 Section 302 Certification Ex-31.2 Section 302 Certification Ex-32.1 Section 906 Certification Ex-32.2 Section 906 Certification Ex-99 Audited Financial Statements Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS A. General Development of Business First National Bancshares, Inc. (the “Company) is a Bank Holding Company formed in 1998 and incorporated in the State of Florida. Effective January 1, 1999, the Company merged First National Bank of Manatee (the “Bank) with and into an interim national bank that was a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As a result of that transaction, the Bank became and continues to be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In April 1999, the Bank changed its name to 1st National Bank & Trust. The Company has no other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the discussion of the Company’s business and operations will refer solely to the Bank. The Bank is a national banking association opened for business on July 18, 1986. The Bank engages primarily in the business of attracting deposits from the general public, and originating real estate, commercial, and consumer loans and managing trust assets. The Bank’s principal market area is Manatee County, Florida, located on the western coast of Florida. As a national bank, the Bank is subject to the rules and regulations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “Comptroller”) and is a member of the Federal Reserve System, with the primary supervisory authority therein being the Board of Governors. The Bank’s deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits, and thus it is subject to the rules and regulations of the FDIC. The Bank’s principal office is located at 5817 Manatee Avenue West, Bradenton, Florida 34209, and its telephone number is (941) 794-6969. On July 27, 2005, the Company’s Board of Directors voted to enter into a merger agreement with Whitney Holding Corporation of New Orleans, Louisiana and on August 24, 2005 Whitney’s board approved the transaction. The transaction is expected to be submitted to the shareholders of First National in early April of 2006 and closed in mid April of 2006. Under the terms of the merger each shareholder of First National will receive approximately $34.64 per share in Whitney common stock and/or cash. The aggregate cash for all shareholders is limited to 35% of the total transaction of $120,000,000. This cash limitation is designed to preserve the tax deferred status of the transaction for those that choose stock. However, there is no limitation on the sale of the stock after the closing. The price of the transaction is subject to adjustment if the average market price of Whitney moves above $38.29 or below $28.29. B. Financial Information See the Company’s audited, consolidated financial statements, attached hereto, for information for each of the last three fiscal years regarding revenues from external customers, the measure of profit and loss and total assets. C. Narrative Description of Business (1) Banking Services The Bank offers a wide range of consumer and commercial banking services traditionally offered by commercial banks, such as personal and commercial checking accounts, negotiable order of withdrawal (“NOW”) accounts, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, savings accounts, IRA accounts, and automatic transfers. These depository services are further complemented by direct deposit capabilities, night depository services, and bank by mail. The Bank participates in three national automatic teller machine systems. The Bank also originates a variety of loans, including, but not limited to, commercial and consumer loans, as well as loans secured by deposit accounts and other marketable collateral. Loans are also made to enable borrowers to purchase, refinance, construct or improve residential or other real estate and usually are secured by mortgages on such real estate. All loans are made in compliance with applicable Federal and State regulations. In December 1994, the Bank received permission from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to open a Trust Department. The Bank hired an experienced trust officer and after a period of organization began operations and opened the department for solicitation of trust business in March of 1995. The department showed a profit in 1996, its first full year of operation, and has been profitable in each subsequent year. In October of 2003, the bank entered into an agreement to acquire The Trust Company of Florida, a trust bank through merger. In February, 2004, the shareholders of Trust Company approved the acquisition and the merger was consummated on March 15, 2004. At the time of merger, The Trust Company of Florida had in excess of $84,000,000 in customer assets and 1st National had more than $108,000,000 in customer assets. At year-end 2004, the trust department had over $198,000,000 in customer assets which includes assets acquired through the merger with The Trust Company of Florida effective March 1, 2004. The Bank opened its first branch office in October 1994 at 5324 Gulf Drive, Holmes Beach. The Bank opened its second branch at the corner of State Road 64 and 48th St. Ct. E. in May 1996. The branch was also large enough to accommodate the Bank’s accounting, deposit and 1 Table of Contents loan operations departments. The Bank purchased a branch location on State Road 70 at the entrance to Braden Woods Subdivision, which it opened in January 1997. In 1999, the Bank purchased a branch location in Ellenton at the corner of Highway 301 and Old Tampa Road, which it opened in November 2000. In December 2001, the Bank acquired a future branch location at the corner of 53rd Avenue West and 36th Street West. The growth of the Bank has been such that in January of 2000, the Bank moved its operations department to a rented facility adjacent to the State Road 64 branch. In April of 2003, the bank opened a Loan Production Office in downtown Sarasota in an effort to increase loan volume in the Sarasota market. Subsequent to the merger with Whitney in April of 2006, the bank will operate as separate wholly owned subsidiary bank of Whitney. The bank is expected to be consolidated into Whitney Bank in the third or fourth quarter of 2006 (2) Operating Strategy The principal business of the Bank is to attract deposits from the general public and to invest those funds in various types of loans and other interest-earning assets. Other funds are provided for the operations of the Bank by proceeds from the sale of investments and loans, from amortization and repayment of outstanding loans, from borrowings, and from working capital. Earnings of the Bank depend primarily upon the difference between (1) the interest received by the Bank from loans, the securities held in its investment portfolio, and other investments and (2) expenses incurred by the Bank in connection with obtaining funds for lending (including interest paid on deposits and other borrowings) and expenses relating to day-to-day operations. The primary sources of the Bank’s funds for lending and for other general business purposes are the Bank’s capital, deposits, loan repayments, borrowings and funds provided from operations. The Bank expects that loan repayments and funds provided from operations will be a relatively stable sources of funds, while deposit inflows and outflows will be significantly influenced by prevailing interest rates, money market and general economic conditions. Generally, short-term borrowings are used to compensate for reductions in normal sources of funds while long-term borrowings are used to support expanded lending activities. The Bank’s customers are primarily individuals, professionals, and small and medium size businesses located in Manatee County. The Bank’s business is not dominated by any large customer. The Bank attempts to tailor its services to the needs of its customers. The Bank’s main office is at a major intersection in the center of one of Manatee County’s more established residential areas. Its branch offices are located on Anna Maria Island, a close knit island community, and along the I-75 corridor in the center of major new residential development. The Bank continually seeks to develop new business through an ongoing program of personal calls on both current and potential customers; and utilizes traditional local advertising media as well as direct mailings, telephone contacts, and brochures to promote the Bank and develop loans and deposits. In addition, the Bank’s directors have worked and/or lived in Manatee County for many years and are involved in various local community activities which further promote the Bank’s image as a locally-oriented independent institution. In 1994, the Bank decided to add trust services to its list of products. The Bank’s focus is on “personal” trusts and investments although it provides a full range of trust products. In November 1998, the Bank began selling mutual funds, annuities and other life insurance products. This service is provided to customers seeking investments not available through traditional bank deposits or Trust Department services. (3) Market Area Manatee County, located on the western coast of Florida, is 41 miles south of Tampa, 26 miles south of St. Petersburg and 10 miles north of Sarasota. According to the Manatee County Chamber of Commerce, Manatee County had a residential population of approximately 294,000 in 2004 and many more seasonal residents. The Bank draws most of its deposit business from within Manatee County and estimates that more than 80% of its business comes from customers whose businesses or residences are located within the county. However, the Bank solicits and accepts business from outside of Manatee County with a meaningful portion of its loan & trust business coming from within Sarasota County and a lesser portion of its trust business coming from Lake County (Leesburg). For purposes of the Community Reinvestment Act, the Bank’s Primary Market Area comprises all of Manatee County. Sarasota County and southern Pinellas County represent a secondary lending area. Both the primary and the secondary lending areas meet the purposes of the Comptroller’s Community Reinvestment Act Regulations and do not exclude low and moderate income neighborhoods. The Bank plans to prudently offer the full range of its services to all residents within its market area. (4) Competition The banking business in Florida in general, and in Manatee County in particular, is highly competitive. According to the most recent market data, there are approximately 23 deposit taking/lending institutions operating in Manatee County. The Bank currently ranks fifth in deposits in the market with 6.1% market share. Bank of America, NA ranks first, with a market share of 26.6%. As a result of its merger with SouthTrust, Wachovia now has a 12.5% market share. No other deposit taking/lending institution in Manatee County possesses a market share 2 Table of Contents over 8.3%. Competition for deposits may have the effect of increasing rates of interest the Bank will pay on deposits, which would increase the Bank’s cost of money and possibly reduce its net earnings. Competition for loans may have the effect of lowering the rate of interest the Bank will receive on its loans, which would lower the Bank’s return on invested assets and possibly reduce its net earnings. Within its market, the Bank competes directly with major banking institutions of comparable or larger size and resources, as well as with various other smaller banking organizations. The Bank also has numerous local and national non-bank competitors, including savings and loan associations, credit unions, mortgage companies, personal and commercial finance companies, investment brokerage and financial advisory firms, and mutual fund companies. Entities that deliver financial services and access to financial products and transactions exclusively through the Internet are another source of competition. Technological advances have also allowed the Bank and other financial institutions to provide electronic and Internet-based services that enhance the value of traditional financial products. Continued consolidation within the financial services industry will most likely change the nature and intensity of competition that the company faces, but can also create opportunities for the company to demonstrate and exploit competitive advantages. The participants in the financial services industry are subject to varying degrees of regulation and governmental supervision. The following section summarizes certain important aspects of the supervision and regulation of banks and bank holding companies. Some of First National’s competitors that are not banks or bank holding companies may be subject to less regulation than are the Company and the Bank, and this may give them a competitive advantage. The current system of laws and regulations can change over time and this would influence the competitive positions of the participants in the financial services industry. We cannot predict whether these changes will be favorable or unfavorable to the Company and the Bank. (5) Loan Commitments At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Bank had commitments to originate and disperse on loans of approximately $38,897,000 and $36,347,000 respectively. Substantially all of both years’ figures include commitments to originate construction real estate loans and pre-approved commercial lines of credit. The Bank expects that all of the commitments at December 31, 2005 will be exercised within the current year. In addition, at December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Bank had in place letters of credit of approximately $1,583,000 and $1,690,000, respectively. The Bank does not expect that any of the standby letters of credit in place at December 31, 2005 will be exercised within the current year. The Bank had no commitments to purchase loans at December 31, 2005 and 2004. (6) Financial History The Bank first opened to the public on July 18, 1986. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had total assets of $378,691,000 compared with total assets of $317,607,000 at December 31, 2004 and $277,232,000 of total assets at December 31, 2003. At year-end 2005, the Company had total deposits of $324,966,000, compared with Bank deposits of $268,782,000 at year end 2004 and $233,327,000 of total deposits at year end 2003. In addition, the Company had loans of $284,615,000 at the end of 2005, compared with $236,180,000 of loans in the Bank at the end of 2004 and $206,742,000 of loans at the end of 2003. For more detailed financial information see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the financial statements and related notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. (7) Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company had no direct employees. The Bank employed 95 people, of which three were executive officers, and 17 were part-time employees. The Company’s employees are not represented by a collective bargaining group, and the Company considers its relations with its employees to be excellent. The Company provides employee benefits customary in the banking industry, which include major medical insurance, group term life insurance, a defined benefit pension plan, a 401-K plan, and vacation and sick leave. (8) Supervision and Regulation General First National Bancshares, Inc. is a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Florida. The business in which the Company and its subsidiary are engaged is subject to extensive supervision, regulation and examination by various bank regulatory authorities. The supervision, regulation and examination to which the Company and its subsidiary are subject are intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the deposit insurance funds that insure the deposits of banks, rather than for the protection of shareholders. 3 Table of Contents Several of the more significant regulatory provisions applicable to banks and bank holding companies to which the Company and its subsidiary are subject are discussed below, along with certain regulatory matters concerning the Company and its subsidiary. To the extent that the following information describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory provisions. Any change in applicable law or regulation may have a material effect on the business and prospects of the Company and its subsidiary. Regulatory Agencies The Company, upon approval from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve Board”), is a registered bank holding company subject to regulation under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHCA”) and to inspection, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve Board. The Bank is a national banking association chartered under the laws of the United States of America. It is subject to regulation and examination primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the “OCC”) and secondarily by the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. The Holding Company Investments and Activities. Under the BHCA, a bank holding company must obtain Federal Reserve Board approval before acquiring substantially all the assets of any bank or bank holding company or ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank or bank holding company if, after such acquisition, it would own or control, directly or indirectly, more than five percent (5%) of the voting shares of such bank or bank holding company. The BHCA also prohibits the Company, with certain limited exceptions, from acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company which is not a bank or bank holding company, and from engaging in any business other than that of banking, managing and controlling banks or furnishing services to banks and their subsidiaries. The principal exception to this prohibition allows bank holding companies to engage in, and to own shares of companies engaged in, certain businesses found by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Affiliate Transactions. Various governmental requirements, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, limit borrowings by holding companies and other non-bank subsidiaries from affiliated insured depository institutions, and also limit other transactions between holding companies and their non-bank subsidiaries and their affiliated insured depository institutions. Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution’s loan to its non-bank affiliates be secured, and Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act generally requires that an insured depository institution’s transactions with its non-bank affiliates be on arms-length terms. Control Acquisitions. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring “control” of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve Board has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under the rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve Board, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as the Company, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the bank holding company. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act . The Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, better known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the “GLB”), permits bank holding companies to become “financial holding companies” and thereby affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. A bank holding company may become a financial holding company if each of its subsidiary banks is well capitalized, well managed, and has at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act. No regulatory approval will be required for a financial holding company to acquire a company, other than a bank or savings association, engaged in activities that are financial in nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature, as determined by the Federal Reserve Board. The GLB defines “financial in nature” to include securities underwriting, dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency; merchant banking activities; and activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined to be closely related to banking. The Company has not elected to become a financial holding company under this new regulatory framework. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 contains important new requirements for public companies in the area of financial disclosure and corporate governance. In accordance with section 302(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, written certifications by the Company’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer are now required which attest that the Company’s quarterly and annual reports filed with the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact. Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are now required to certify that the Company has effective disclosure controls and procedures, and, in accordance with 4 Table of Contents Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Company is also in the process of implementing a new program designed to monitor the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. This new program will include the identification of significant processes and accounts, documentation of the design of control effectiveness over process and entity level controls, and testing of the operating effectiveness of key controls over financial reporting. This program must be fully implemented for the preparation of the Company’s annual report for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. See Item 8A of the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K for more information regarding management’s evaluation of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures, and the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. The Bank Interstate Banking and Branching. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act (“Riegle-Neal”), subject to certain concentration limits and other requirements, bank holding companies such as the Company are permitted to acquire banks and bank holding companies located in any state. Any bank that is a subsidiary of a bank holding company is permitted to receive deposits, renew time deposits, close loans, service loans and receive loan payments as an agent for any other bank subsidiary of that bank holding company. Banks are permitted to acquire branch offices outside their home states by merging with out-of-state banks, purchasing branches in other states and establishing de novo branch offices in other states. The ability of banks to acquire branch offices or merge with a bank located in another state is contingent, however, on the host state having adopted legislation “opting in” to the provisions of Riegle-Neal. Control Acquisitions. The Change in Bank Control Act prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring “control” of a bank holding company, unless the Federal Reserve Board has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under the rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve Board, the acquisition of 10% or more of a class of voting stock of a bank holding company with a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as the Company, would, under the circumstances set forth in the presumption, constitute acquisition of control of the bank holding company. In addition, a company is required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve Board under the Bank Holding Company Act before acquiring 25% (5% in the case of an acquiror that is a bank holding company) or more of any class of outstanding voting stock of a bank holding company, or otherwise obtaining control or a “controlling influence” over that bank holding company. Liability for Banking Subsidiaries. Under the current Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and to maintain resources adequate to support each subsidiary bank. This support may be required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide it. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a U.S. federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority of payment. Capital Requirements. The OCC, Federal Reserve Board and FDIC require banks and holding companies to maintain minimum capital ratios. The “risk-adjusted” capital guidelines for the Bank and the Company involve a mathematical process of assigning various risk weights to different classes of assets, then evaluating the sum of the risk-weighted balance sheet structure against the Bank’s and Company’s capital base. The rules set the minimum guidelines for the ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of credit) at 8%. Tier 1 Capital is comprised of common equity, retained earnings, and a limited amount of perpetual preferred stock less certain intangible items. At least half of the total capital is to be Tier 1 Capital. The remainder may consist of a limited amount of subordinated debt, other preferred stock, and a portion of the loan loss reserves (not to exceed 1.25% of risk-weighted assets). The Bank anticipates maintaining capital at a level sufficient to be classified as “well capitalized” pursuant to the Federal Reserve guidelines. In addition, the federal banking regulatory agencies have adopted leverage capital guidelines for banks and bank holding companies. Under these guidelines, banks and bank holding companies must maintain a minimum ratio of three percent (3%) Tier 1 Capital to total assets. However, most banking organizations are expected to maintain capital ratios well in excess of the minimum level and generally must keep their Tier 1 ratio at or above 5%. The Bank intends to maintain capital well above the regulatory minimum. The capital requirements described above are minimum requirements. Higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual institutions. For example, the regulations provide that additional capital may be required to take adequate account of, among other things, interest rate risk or the risks posed by concentrations of credit, nontraditional activities or securities trading activities. 5 Table of Contents In addition to the minimum regulatory capital requirements discussed above, provisions contained in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) expressly provide for certain supervisory actions which are directly keyed to the capital levels of an insured depository institution. These “prompt corrective action” provisions impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management and capital distributions of a particular institution as its regulatory capital decreases. Using Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage capital ratios as the relevant measures, FDIC insured depository institutions are grouped into one of the following five prompt corrective action capital categories: well capitalized, adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. An institution is considered well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 5%, provided, however, such institution is not subject to a written advisement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any particular capital measure. An adequately capitalized institution must have a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4% and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3% if the institution has achieved the highest composite rating in its most recent examination). The required capital levels and the Company’s capital position at December 31, 2005 are summarized in the table included in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. Dividend Restrictions. The ability of the Company to obtain funds for the payment of dividends and for other cash requirements will be largely dependent on the amount of dividends which may be declared by its banking subsidiary. Various U.S. federal statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends the Company’s banking subsidiaries can pay to the Company without regulatory approval. Dividend payments by national banks are limited to the lesser of (1) the level of undivided profits; (2) the amount in excess of which the bank ceases to be at least adequately capitalized; and (3) absent regulatory approval, an amount not in excess of net income for the current year combined with retained net income for the preceding two years. In addition, U.S. federal bank regulatory authorities have authority to prohibit the Company’s banking subsidiary from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice in conducting their business. The payment of dividends, depending upon the financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. The ability of the Company’s banking subsidiary to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. Deposit Insurance Assessments. The deposits of the Company’s banking subsidiary are insured up to regulatory limits by the FDIC, and, accordingly, are subject to deposit insurance assessments to maintain the Bank Insurance Fund (the “BIF”) and/or the Savings Association Insurance Fund (the “SAIF”) administered by the FDIC. Depositor Preference. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act provides that, in the event of the “liquidation or other resolution” of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors of the institution, including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors, and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver, will have priority over other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of unsecured, non deposit creditors and shareholders of the institution. Privacy Provisions of Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Under GLB, federal banking regulators adopted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose non-public information about consumers to non-affiliated third parties. These limitations require disclosure of privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to non-affiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of GLB affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. Anti-Money Laundering Provisions of the USA Patriot Act of 2001. On October 26, 2001, the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (the “Patriot Act”) was signed into law. The Patriot Act is intended to strengthen U.S. law enforcement’s and the intelligence community’s ability to work cohesively to combat terrorism on a variety of fronts. The potential impact of the Patriot Act on financial institutions of all kinds is significant and wide-ranging. The Patriot Act contains sweeping anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws and requires various regulations, including: (a) due diligence requirements for financial institutions that administer, maintain, or manage private bank accounts or correspondent accounts for non-U.S. persons; (b) standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; and (c) rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Fiscal and Monetary Policies. The Bank’s business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies. The Bank is particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary policy available to the Federal Reserve are (a) conducting open market 6 Table of Contents operations in United States government securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions’ deposits, and (d) imposing or changing reserve requirements against certain borrowing by banks and their affiliates. These methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to affect directly the availability of bank loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. For that reason alone, the policies of the FRB have a material effect on the earnings of the Bank. Additional Regulation. The Bank is also subject to federal regulation as to such matters as required reserves, limitation as to the nature and amount of its loans and investments, regulatory approval of any merger or consolidation, issuance or retirement of their own securities, limitations upon the payment of dividends and other aspects of banking operations. In addition, the activities and operations of the Bank are subject to a number of additional detailed, complex and sometimes overlapping laws and regulations. These include state usury and consumer credit laws, state laws relating to fiduciaries, the Federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Community Reinvestment Act, anti-redlining legislation and antitrust laws. Future Legislation. Changes to the laws and regulations, both at the federal level and in the states where the Company and its subsidiary do business, can affect the operating environment of the Company and its subsidiary in substantial and unpredictable ways. The Company cannot accurately predict whether those changes in laws and regulations will occur, and, if those changes occur, the ultimate effect they would have upon the financial condition or results of operations of the Company or its subsidiary. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have entered into an Agreement to merge with Whitney Holding Corporation. On July 27, 2005, the Board of Directors of First National Bancshares, Inc. entered into an agreement to merge with Whitney Holding Corporation (Nasdaq: WTNY). Under the terms of the merger agreement, each shareholder of First National will receive approximately $34.64 per share in Whitney common stock and/or cash. The aggregate cash available for all shareholders is limited to 35% of the total transaction value of approximately $120,000,000. The transaction is subject to the approval of the shareholders of First National Bancshares and the appropriate regulatory agencies and other customary closing conditions. Whitney Holding Corporation is a $9.4 billion bank holding company headquartered in New Orleans. It is the parent of Whitney National Bank which was established in 1883. It has offices throughout the five-state Gulf Coast region stretching from Houston, Texas, across southern Louisiana and the coastal region of Mississippi, to central and south Alabama, the panhandle of Florida, and the metropolitan area of Tampa, Florida. Subsequent to the execution of the merger agreement, hurricanes Katrina and Rita hit the Gulf Coast. Whitney was impacted by hurricane Katrina and to a lesser extent by hurricane Rita. As a result of those storms, Whitney assessed the damage to its facilities and expensed the deductibles associated with its insurance coverage during the third quarter. Whitney stated in its September 30 quarterly financial filings with the SEC that it expects to incur some continuing storm-related expenses for the next several quarters, which are expected to be substantially covered by insurance. While it is too early to assess with precision the storms’ ultimate effect on loan collections, Whitney made an evaluation of its loan portfolio at the end of the third quarter. As a result of its loan portfolio evaluation, Whitney provided for its best estimate of losses inherent in the portfolio as of quarter end. Whitney will continue to evaluate its loan portfolio quarterly and make appropriate adjustments to its allowance for loan losses. The hurricanes, while affecting Whitney’s stock price, will not impact the financial value of the transaction to First National shareholders, assuming Whitney stock continues to trade at $28.29 or above. A special meeting of the shareholders to vote on the merger with Whitney has been set for April 6, 2006, and a proxy statement/prospectus was mailed out to shareholders on March 8, 2006. The proxy statement/prospectus fully describes the proposed transaction. Other risk factors relating to the transaction are detailed in the proxy statement/prospectus under the section captioned “RISK FACTORS.” 7 Table of Contents There is intense and significant competition in the financial services sector. Our ability to achieve strong financial performance and a satisfactory return on investment to shareholders depends on attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services. In addition to other commercial banks and depository institutions, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Our business is based upon lending money and there is a risk of non-repayment. The risk of non-repayment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings and our overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Management attempts to reduce the Bank’s credit exposure by carefully monitoring the concentration of its loans within specific industries and through loan application and approval procedures. However, there can be no assurance that such monitoring and procedures will reduce such lending risks. Credit losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such event, its shareholders could lose their entire investment. We are engaged in a heavily regulated industry, therefore any changes in governmental laws, regulations or policies could limit our future growth. Any changes to federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact our earnings and profitability. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. In addition, the Company’s earnings are affected by the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. These policies, which include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act regarding financial modernization that became effective in November, 1999 removed many of the barriers to the integration of the banking, securities and insurance industries and is likely to increase the competitive pressures upon the Bank. We cannot predict what effect such Act and any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, but such changes could be materially adverse to our financial performance. For a more information on this subject, see the section under Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K captioned “Supervision and Regulation.” Our profitability is directly related to interest rates, therefore any changes in these rates may adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. Changes in interest rates affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our “net interest spread,” which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest spreads for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors, which are often collectively referred to as “interest rate risk.” For more information regarding the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, see the section under Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K captioned “Liquidity and Interest Rate Sensitivity Management.” Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations. The Company currently pays no cash dividends to shareholders, and management has no intention of doing so prior to the completion of the merger with Whitney. As a general matter, dividends are subject to determination and declaration by our board of directors, which takes into account many factors. The declaration of dividends by us on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board and to applicable state and federal regulatory limitations. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on its receipt of dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to restrictions and limitations in the amount and timing of the dividends it may pay to the Company. Additional discussion of the Company’s ability to pay dividends is found under Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K in the section captioned “Supervision and Regulation.” 8 Table of Contents Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 