RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal risks are described below. Economic A lack of improvement in global economic conditions could have significant adverse effects on our business and future operating results and cash flows. Tightening of credit as a result of the turmoil in the financial industry, the resulting downturn of economies throughout the world, and declining debt and equity markets have combined with numerous other factors creating a fear of a severe global recession and have resulted in a significant decline in consumer confidence and resulting declines in investment activity and consumer demand. Recessions in the United States and in many economies of Western Europe have created an extremely challenging business environment. If economic conditions in Western Europe, the U.S. and our other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement over the near term, our financial condition, our profitability and our cash flows would be adversely affected. In this environment, the occurrence of any events that threaten consumer and investor confidence generally (for example, international disputes, political instability, terrorism, volatility in equity or housing markets or rising energy prices) may exacerbate any adverse effects of the global economy on future sales, primarily in Western Europe, the United States and in some emerging markets. Since a high proportion of our costs is fixed, even small declines in sales can significantly affect our operating results and cash flows. In addition, if severe deflation were to occur in some of our key markets, our business, future operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. Similarly, inflationary pressure caused by recurring high energy prices or an increase in interest rates as a result of a sharp increase in money supply or large fiscal deficits could result in a further decline in automotive sales. A recurrence of high fuel prices could also accelerate the shift toward smaller, lighter, more fuel-efficient cars, which generally provide a lower gross margin than larger vehicles, or could lead to consumers deferring purchases. A further decline in consumer demand and investment activity in Western Europe, the most important market for our products, could significantly adversely affect our businesses. We derive approximately half our revenue from our business in Western Europe. A major slowdown in the Western European economies or in the industries in which we operate adversely affects our business. In 2008, the weakening of the world economy and the financial crisis negatively affected the Western European economies, resulting in significantly reduced demand for vehicles in the second half of 2008. At year end 2008, the major Western European economies were in recession. A sustained financial crisis and the associated lack of consumer and investor confidence could result in a further decline in demand. Our business in Western Europe could be further impacted if business conditions deteriorate due to the structural weakness of some European economies or the spillover effects of a deeper U.S. recession or a pronounced appreciation of the euro. In addition, consumer demand may be further affected by the uncertainty, particularly in several Western European countries, caused by plans to impose vehicle taxes based on emission levels. A deepening recession in the United States could result in a pronounced decline in demand for automotive products in the U.S. and other markets which could severely affect our sales and our profitability and cash flows. The United States is an important market for our products. The major short-term risk of the U.S. economy is a deeper than expected recession of the economy due to the economic effects resulting from the credit and financial crisis and the decline in real estate values. A more pronounced recessionary trend in the U.S. economy could negatively impact stock markets worldwide and result in a further decline in investment and private consumption 5 in the U.S. and other markets which could severely affect our sales of passenger cars and commercial vehicles. In addition, the U.S. economy continues to require significant capital inflow from non-U.S. investors to finance the large current account deficit of the United States. A pronounced decline in demand for U.S. dollar denominated investments could lead to an uncontrolled depreciation of the U.S. dollar which could negatively impact our passenger car sales in the U.S. and the profitability of our Mercedes-Benz Cars segment. Because of the global importance of the U.S. economy and the existing interdependencies between the United States economy and other major economies throughout the world, any significant economic downturn in the United States would likely also adversely affect Western European and other world markets. A sustained slowdown or economic downturn in Asian economies could delay our plans for expansion in Asian markets and intensify competitive pressures. During 2008, the economic risks for major Asian economies increased, primarily as a result of the weakening world economy. A decline in Asian economies could negatively affect future business prospects of our subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and sales of our Mercedes-Benz passenger cars in Asia. An economic downturn in Asia, particularly in China, could delay our long-term strategic expansion plans in that increasingly important market. Moreover, if economic conditions in Asia were to deteriorate, especially if coupled with depreciating Asian currencies, then Asian competitors with excess capacity might intensify their efforts to export vehicles to North America and Western Europe. This would not only intensify competition for market share, but also increase further the existing pressure on margins within the automotive industry. Our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected by economic or political change in some regions. We, in particular our Daimler Trucks segment, our Daimler Buses operating unit, and our Daimler Financial Services segment, have significant operations in several Latin American countries and in Turkey. Some of these countries may experience severe economic or political change, including currency fluctuations, which could adversely affect our investments as well as local demand in those and neighboring countries, thereby negatively affecting our cash flows and results of operations. In addition, lower prices for raw materials could have a significant adverse effect on the economic outlook of some emerging markets that depend to a large degree on exporting raw materials. As a result, our sales in those countries may be negatively affected. Protectionist trade policies could negatively affect our business in several markets. Demand for motor vehicles could also be affected by adverse developments in the political and regulatory environment in the markets in which we operate. For example, a discord in international trade relations and the implementation of new tariff or non-tariff trade barriers could negatively affect our global sales and procurement activities as well as expansion plans in affected areas. The proliferation of bilateral free trade agreements between third party countries could negatively affect our position in those foreign markets, especially in Southeast Asia where Japan increasingly gains preferential market access. Industry and Business Overcapacity and intense competition in the automotive industry create pricing pressure and force further cost reductions which could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. Overcapacity and intense price competition in the automotive industry could continue to force manufacturers of passenger cars and commercial vehicles, including us, to decrease production, reduce capacity or increase sales incentives, each of which would be costly and therefore could negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. For example, the global economic slowdown that began towards the end of 2008 has caused a significant decline in demand for passenger cars and commercial vehicles which further increased overcapacity and intensified price competition in the automotive industry. Our ability to improve or even maintain our profitability depends, among other things, on maintaining competitive cost structures and introducing attractive and fuel efficient new 6 products. If we are unable to continue to provide competitive pricing, customers may elect to purchase competitors' products and our future profitability and cash flows may suffer. In addition, significant discounts and other sales incentives have become increasingly common in many automotive markets, including Western Europe. Sales incentives in the new vehicle business also influence the price level of used vehicles, which could adversely affect the profitability of our used vehicle sales and, indirectly, the profitability of our future new vehicle sales. In 2008 the board of management of Daimler AG approved a plan to optimize and reposition the business operations of Daimler Trucks North America, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group. The future profitability and cash flows of our Daimler Trucks segment depend in part on the successful implementation of this plan. For further information on the measures initiated at Daimler Trucks North America, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Daimler Trucks" in "