risk factors described in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” The FCC has rules requiring that when money, goods, services or other valuable consideration has been paid or promised to a station or an employee for the broadcast of programming, appropriate sponsorship identification announcement(s) must be given. The FCC has initiated an inquiry regarding sponsorship identification practices at several media companies, including us. We are cooperating with the FCC in its investigation, which remains pending. We have entered into a consent judgment terminating a lawsuit brought by the New York Attorney General, in which we agreed to adopt a number of business reforms and practices in the future and to make a payment to a non-profit organization to support music education and appreciation. We admitted no liability, and the court found none. The FCC has rules prohibiting employment discrimination by broadcast stations on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin and gender. These rules require broadcasters generally to: (1) refrain from discrimination in hiring and promotion; (2) widely disseminate information about all full-time job openings to all segments of the community to ensure that all qualified applicants have sufficient opportunity to apply for the job; (3) send job vacancy announcements to recruitment organizations and others in the community indicating an interest in all or some vacancies at the station; and (4) implement a number of specific longer-term recruitment outreach efforts, such as job fairs, internship programs, and interaction with educational and community groups from among a menu of approaches itemized by the FCC. The applicability of these policies to part-time employment opportunities is the subject of a pending further rulemaking proceeding. The FCC has adopted procedures for the auction of broadcast spectrum in circumstances when two or more parties have filed for new or major change applications that are mutually exclusive. Such procedures may limit our efforts to build new stations, or to modify or expand the broadcast signals of our existing stations. The FCC has also adopted a new rule that may facilitate making changes in the designated community of license of a radio station and allow stations to be relocated in ways that might result in increased competition to our existing stations. Proposed And Recent Changes. Congress and the FCC may in the future consider and adopt new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could affect, directly or indirectly, the operation, ownership and profitability of our radio stations; result in the loss of audience share and advertising revenues for our radio stations; and affect our ability to acquire additional radio stations or to finance those acquisitions. We cannot predict what other matters may be proposed or considered by the FCC or Congress, and we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of any such restrictions or limitations may have on our operations. Federal Antitrust Laws. The federal agencies responsible for enforcing the federal antitrust laws, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice, may investigate certain acquisitions. For an acquisition meeting certain size thresholds, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 requires the parties to file Notification and Report Forms with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice and to observe specified waiting period requirements before consummating the acquisition. Any decision by the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice to challenge a proposed acquisition could affect our ability to consummate the acquisition or to consummate it on the proposed terms. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific Department of Justice or Federal Trade Commission investigation. Employees As of February 5, 2007, we had a staff of 1,799 full-time employees and 1,013 part-time employees. In our Kansas City market, we are a party to a collective bargaining agreement with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (“AFTRA”). While the AFTRA agreement expired in 2005, it continues to apply to some of our programming personnel. We are currently renegotiating this agreement and cannot predict the outcome of these negotiations. Approximately 5 employees are represented by this collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. In addition, we will assume a collective bargaining agreement with AFTRA that covers certain on air personnel in the San Francisco market in connection with a pending transaction to acquire three radio stations in San Francisco. Corporate Governance Code Of Business Conduct And Ethics. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to each of our employees including our principal executive officer and senior members of our finance department. Our Code of 10 Business Conduct and Ethics can be found on the Corporate Governance page of our website located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics upon any request by a shareholder. Board Committee Charters. Each of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee has a committee charter as required by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. These committee charters can be found on the Corporate Governance page of our website located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of any one or more of such charters upon any request by a shareholder. Corporate Governance Guidelines. New York Stock Exchange rules require our Board of Directors to establish certain Corporate Governance Guidelines. These guidelines can be found on the Corporate Governance page of our website located at www.entercom.com. We will provide a paper copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines upon any request by a shareholder. New York Stock Exchange CEO Certification. On May 30, 2006, our Chief Executive Officer submitted to the New York Stock Exchange the “CEO Certification” required by Section 303A.12(a) of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual. Environmental Compliance As the owner, lessee or operator of various real properties and facilities, we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. Historically, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance, however, that compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations will not require us to make significant expenditures of funds. Seasonality Seasonal revenue fluctuations are common in the radio broadcasting industry and are due primarily to fluctuations in advertising expenditures. Our revenues and broadcast cash flows are typically lowest in the first calendar quarter. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Many statements contained in this report are forward-looking in nature. These statements are based on current plans, intentions or expectations, and actual results could differ materially as we cannot guarantee that we will achieve these plans, intentions or expectations. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ are the following: We Face Many Unpredictable Business Risks, Both General And Specific To The Radio Broadcasting Industry, Which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Future Operations. Our future operations are subject to many business risks, including those risks that specifically influence the radio broadcasting industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business including: · economic conditions, both generally and relative to the radio broadcasting industry; · shifts in population, demographics or audience tastes; · the level of competition for advertising revenues with other radio stations and other entertainment and communications media; · technological changes and innovations; · new laws and regulations; and · changes in governmental regulations and policies and actions of federal regulatory bodies, including the FCC, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission. Given the inherent unpredictability of these variables, we cannot with any degree of certainty predict what effect, if any, these variables will have on our future operations. Generally, advertising tends to decline during economic recession or downturn. Consequently, our advertising revenue is likely to be adversely affected by a recession or downturn in the United 11 States economy, the economy of an individual geographic market in which we own or operate radio stations, or other events or circumstances that adversely affect advertising activity. Our Radio Stations May Not Be Able To Compete Effectively In Their Respective Markets For Advertising Revenues. Our radio broadcasting stations are in a highly competitive business. Our radio stations compete for audiences and advertising revenues within their respective markets directly with other radio stations, as well as with other media, such as newspapers and magazines, Internet, broadcast and cable television, outdoor advertising and direct mail. Audience ratings and market shares are subject to change, and any change in a particular market could have a material adverse effect on the revenue of our stations located in that market. While we already compete in some of our markets with other stations with similar programming formats, if another radio station in a market were to convert its programming format to a format similar to one of our stations, if a new station were to adopt a comparable format or if an existing competitor were to strengthen its operations, our stations could suffer a reduction in ratings and/or advertising revenue and could incur increased promotional and other expenses. Other radio broadcasting companies may enter into the markets in which we operate or may operate in the future. These companies may be larger and have more financial resources than we have. We cannot be assured that any of our stations will be able to maintain or increase their current audience ratings and advertising revenues. The FCC Has Engaged In Vigorous Enforcement Of Its Indecency Rules Against The Broadcast Industry, Which Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. FCC regulations prohibit the broadcast of obscene material at any time and indecent material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. In the last several years, the FCC has enhanced its enforcement efforts relating to the regulation of indecency and has threatened on more than one occasion to initiate license revocation proceedings against a broadcast licensee who commits a “serious” indecency violation. Congress has dramatically increased the penalties for broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane programming and potentially subject broadcasters to license revocation, renewal or qualification proceedings in the event that they broadcast indecent material. In addition, the FCC’s heightened focus on the indecency regulatory scheme, against the broadcast industry generally, may encourage third parties to oppose our license renewal applications or applications for consent to acquire broadcast stations. Several of our stations are currently subject to indecency-related inquiries and/or proposed fines at the FCC’s Enforcement Bureau as well as objections to our license renewals based on such inquiries and proposed fines, and we may in the future become subject to additional inquiries or proceedings related to our stations’ broadcast of obscene, indecent or profane material. To the extent that these inquiries or other proceedings result in the imposition of fines, a settlement with the FCC, revocation of any of our station licenses or denials of license renewal applications, our results of operation and business could be materially adversely affected. We Are Dependent On Federally-Issued Licenses To Operate Our Radio Stations And Are Subject To Extensive Federal Regulation. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to extensive regulation by the FCC under the Communications Act (see for example, the discussion of FCC regulations contained in Part I, Item 1, “Business,” of this Form 10-K). We are required to obtain licenses from the FCC to operate our radio stations. Licenses are normally granted for a term of eight years and are renewable. Although the vast majority of FCC radio station licenses are routinely renewed, we cannot be assured that the FCC will approve our future renewal applications or that the renewals will not include conditions or qualifications. A number of our applications to renew our station licenses have been objected to by a third party and remain pending before the FCC. The non-renewal, or renewal with substantial conditions or modifications, of one or more of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on us. We must comply with extensive FCC regulations and policies in the ownership and operation of our radio stations. FCC regulations limit the number of radio stations that a licensee can own in a market, which could restrict our ability to consummate future transactions and in certain circumstances could require us to divest some radio stations. The FCC’s rules governing our radio station operations impose costs on our operations, and changes in those rules could have an adverse effect on our business. The FCC also requires radio stations to comply with certain technical requirements to limit interference between two or more radio stations. If the FCC relaxes these technical requirements, it could impair the signals transmitted by our radio stations and could have a material adverse effect on us. Moreover, these FCC regulations and others may change over time, and we cannot be assured that those changes would not have a material adverse effect on us. The FCC has recently initiated an investigation into a contest at one of our stations where a contestant died shortly after participating in the contest. We are currently the subject of several investigations by the FCC. 12 We Must Respond To The Increased Competition For Audio Distribution And The Rapid Changes In Technology, Services And Standards That Characterize Our Industry In Order To Remain Competitive. The radio broadcasting industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and the emergence of new media technologies and services. There is increased competition for audio distribution. These technologies and services, some of which are commercial free, include the following: · satellite delivered digital audio radio service, which has resulted in subscriber-based satellite radio services with numerous niche formats; · audio programming by cable systems, direct broadcast satellite systems, personal communications systems, Internet content providers and other digital audio broadcast formats; · personal digital audio devices (e.g., audio via WiFi, mobile phones, iPods® and mp3® players); · digital radio, which provides multi-channel, multi-format digital radio services in the same bandwidth currently occupied by traditional AM and FM radio services; and · low-power FM radio, which could result in additional FM radio broadcast outlets. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that competition arising from new technologies or regulatory change may have on the radio broadcasting industry or on our financial condition and results of operations. We May Not Be Successful In Identifying And Consummating Future Acquisitions. We pursue growth, in part, through the acquisition of individual radio stations and groups of radio stations. Our consummation of all future acquisitions will be subject to various conditions, including FCC and other regulatory approvals. The FCC must approve any transfer of control or assignment of broadcast licenses. In addition, acquisitions may encounter intense scrutiny under federal and state antitrust laws. Depending on the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may require additional financing. We cannot be assured that additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms. We compete with many other buyers for the acquisition of radio stations. Some of those competitors may be able to outbid us for acquisitions because they have greater financial resources. As a result of these and other factors, our ability to identify and consummate future acquisitions is uncertain. We May Be Unable To Effectively Integrate Our Acquisitions. The integration of acquisitions involves numerous risks, including: · difficulties in the integration of operations and systems and the management of a large and geographically diverse group of stations; · the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; and · the potential loss of key employees of acquired stations. The risks of integration are magnified during any period of significant growth. We cannot be assured that we will be able to integrate successfully any operations, systems or management that might be acquired in the future. In addition, in the event that the operations of a new business do not meet expectations, we may restructure or write off the value of some or all of the assets of the new business. 13 We Have Substantial Indebtedness Which Could Have Important Consequences To You. We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders’ equity. At December 31, 2006, we have long-term indebtedness of $676.2 million (excluding outstanding letters of credit of $0.8 million) and shareholders’ equity of $777.1 million. This indebtedness is substantial in amount and could have an impact on us. For example, these obligations could: · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for other purposes, including funding future expansion and ongoing capital expenditures; · impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; · limit our ability to compete, expand and make capital improvements; · increase our vulnerability to economic downturns, limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and · limit or prohibit our ability to pay dividends and make other distributions. As of December 31, 2006, $373.2 million was available under our current $900 million Bank Revolver, subject to compliance with the covenants under the Bank Revolver at the time of borrowing. Moreover, under certain circumstances, we may need to modify or enter into a new bank facility to close on any future acquisitions. We also may seek to obtain other funding or additional financing for any or all of the following transactions: (1) the acquisition of radio stations; (2) the full or partial redemption of our outstanding debt; (3) the payment of a dividend; and (4) the buyback of our Class A common stock. We have no assurances that we will be able to obtain other funding, additional financing or the approvals, if necessary, for any of these transactions. Any additional borrowings would further increase the amount of our indebtedness and the associated risks. The Covenants In Our Bank Revolver And Our Senior Subordinated Notes Restrict Our Financial And Operational Flexibility. Our Bank Revolver and our Senior Subordinated Notes contain covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to borrow money, make particular types of investments or other restricted payments, swap or sell assets, or merge or consolidate. An event of default under our Bank Revolver or our Senior Subordinated Notes could allow the lenders to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. We have pledged substantially all of the stock or equity interests of our subsidiaries to secure the debt under our Bank Revolver. If the amounts outstanding under the Senior Subordinated Notes were accelerated, the lenders could proceed against the stock or equity interests of our subsidiaries. A default under our Senior Subordinated Notes could cause a default under our Bank Revolver. Any event of default, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Bank Revolver also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by operating performance or other events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that we will meet those ratios. We also may incur future debt obligations in connection with future acquisitions that might subject us to restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility or subject us to other events of default. The debt we incur in connection with future acquisitions may require us to modify or enter into a new bank facility if certain covenants in our Bank Revolver would be violated, subjecting us to an event of default. Because Of Our Holding Company Structure, We Depend On Our Subsidiaries For Cash Flow, And Our Access To This Cash Flow Is Restricted. We operate as a holding company. All of our radio stations are currently owned and operated by our subsidiaries. Entercom Radio, LLC, our 100% owned finance subsidiary, is the borrower under our credit facility and our senior subordinated debt. All of our station-operating subsidiaries and FCC license subsidiaries are subsidiaries of Entercom Radio, LLC. Further, we guaranteed Entercom Radio, LLC’s obligations under the Bank Revolver on a senior secured basis and under the Senior Subordinated Notes on an unsecured basis, junior to our Bank Revolver. As a holding company, our only source of cash to pay our obligations, including corporate overhead and other trade payables, are distributions from our subsidiaries of their net earnings and cash flow. We currently expect that the net earnings and cash flow of our subsidiaries will be retained and used by them in their operations, including servicing their debt obligations, before distributions are made to us. Even if our subsidiaries elect to make distributions to us, we cannot be assured 14 that applicable state law and contractual restrictions, including the dividend covenants contained in our Bank Revolver and Senior Subordinated Notes, would permit such dividends or distributions. Our Chairman Of The Board And Our President And Chief Executive Officer Effectively Control Our Company, And Members Of Their Immediate Family Also Own A Substantial Equity Interest In Us. Their Interests May Conflict With Your Interest. As of February 15, 2007, Joseph M. Field, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned 1,131,041 shares of our Class A common stock and 6,997,555 shares of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 63.4% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. As of February 15, 2007, David J. Field, our President and Chief Executive Officer, one of our directors and the son of Joseph M. Field, beneficially owned 2,139,030 shares of our Class A common stock and 749,250 shares of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 8.9% of the total voting power of all of our outstanding common stock. Collectively, Joseph M. Field and David J. Field and other members of the Field family beneficially own all of our outstanding Class B common stock. Other members of the Field family and Trusts for their benefit also own shares of Class A common stock. Shares of Class B common stock are transferable only to Joseph M. Field, David J. Field, certain of their family members or trusts for any of their benefit. Upon any other transfer, shares of our Class B common stock automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. Shares of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes only when Joseph M. Field or David J. Field votes them, subject to certain exceptions when they are restricted to one vote. Joseph M. Field generally is able to control the vote on all matters submitted to the vote of shareholders and, therefore, is able to direct our management and policies, except with respect to those matters when the shares of our Class B common stock are only entitled to one vote and those matters requiring a class vote under the provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws or applicable law, including, without limitation, the election of the two Class A directors. Without the approval of Joseph M. Field, we will be unable to consummate transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which investors might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Future Sales By Joseph M. Field Or Members Of His Family Could Adversely Affect The Price Of Our Class A Common Stock. The market for our Class A common stock could fall substantially if Joseph M. Field or members of his family sell large amounts of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, including any shares of our Class B common stock (as described in the above paragraph) which are automatically converted to Class A common stock when sold. These sales, or the possibility of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future. The Difficulties Associated With Any Attempt To Gain Control Of Our Company Could Adversely Affect The Price Of Our Class A Common Stock. Joseph M. Field controls the decision as to whether a change in control will occur for our Company. There are also provisions contained in our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Pennsylvania law that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our Company. In addition, FCC approval for transfers of control of FCC licenses and assignments of FCC licenses are required. These restrictions and limitations could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. We Depend On Selected Market Clusters Of Radio Stations. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we generated in excess of 50% of our net revenues in 5 of our 23 markets (Boston, Seattle, Sacramento, Portland and Kansas City). Accordingly we may have greater exposure to adverse events or conditions that affect the economy in any of these markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. The Ownership Rules Effectively Decrease The Number Of Available Buyers For Any Radio Stations We Sell, Which May Have A Negative Impact On The Sales Price Of Radio Stations. The continued existence of any cross-media rules may limit the prospective buyers in the market of any stations we may wish to sell. The ownership rules also effectively prevent us from selling stations in a market to a buyer that has reached its ownership limit in the market. 15 Our Stock Price Could Be Volatile And Could Drop Unexpectedly. Our Class A common stock has been publicly traded since January 29, 1999. The market price of our Class A common stock has been subject to fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. The Loss Of Key Personnel Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our executive officers and other key executives. We believe that the loss of one or more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. We Are Subject To General Changes In The Economy That Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Our Business. Any adverse change in the U.S. economy in general, and consumer confidence and spending in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations and on the future price of our Class A common stock. A Future Asset Impairment Of Our FCC Licenses And/Or Goodwill Could Cause Future Losses. As of December 31, 2006, our FCC licenses and goodwill comprise 87.0% of our total assets. Annual impairment reviews required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“ SFAS”) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,’’ may result in future impairment losses. The Impact Of A Natural Disaster And Its Aftermath Could Have A Material Adverse Effect On Any Of Our Markets. A natural disaster could adversely impact any of our markets. As an example, Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath impacted the operations of our six radio stations in New Orleans, Louisiana. Our Failure To Comply Under The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Could Cause A Loss Of Confidence In The Reliability Of Our Financial Statements. We have undergone a comprehensive effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. This effort included documenting and testing our internal controls. As of December 31, 2006, we did not identify any material weaknesses in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline requirements of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. This loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 