Risk Factors This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry Our revenues and expenses are difficult to predict and can vary significantly from period to period, which could cause our share price to decline. Our revenues and profitability have grown rapidly in recent years and are likely to vary significantly in the future from period to period. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that in the future some of our results of operations may be below the expectations of market analysts and our investors, which could cause the share price of our equity shares and our ADSs to decline significantly. Factors which affect the fluctuation of our operating results include: the size, timing and profitability of significant projects, including large outsourcing deals; changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; the proportion of services that we perform at our development centers or at our client sites; the effect of wage pressures, seasonal hiring patterns, attrition, and the time required to train and productively utilize new employees, particularly information technology, or IT, professionals; the size and timing of facilities expansion and resulting depreciation and amortization costs; expenditures in connection with the submission of proposals for larger, more complex client engagements; unanticipated cancellations, contract terminations, deferrals of projects or delays in purchases, including those resulting from our clients' efforts to comply with regulatory requirements, or those occurring as a result of our clients reorganizing their operations; utilization of billable employees; and unanticipated variations in the duration, size and scope of our projects, as well as changes in the corporate decision-making process of our client base. A significant part of our total operating expenses, particularly expenses related to personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular period. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or employee utilization rates, or the accuracy of our estimates of the resources required to complete ongoing projects, may cause significant variations in our operating results in any particular period. There are also a number of factors, other than our performance, that are not within our control that could cause fluctuations in our operating results from period to period. These include: the duration of tax holidays or tax exemptions and the availability of other incentives from the Government of India; changes in regulations and taxation in India or the other countries in which we conduct business; currency fluctuations, particularly when the rupee appreciates in value against the US dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling or the Euro, since the majority of our revenues are in these currencies and a significant part of our costs are in rupees; and other general economic and political factors, including, in particular, the economic conditions in the United States and Europe. In addition, the availability of visas for working in the United States may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. Visas for working in the United States may be available during one quarter, but not another, or there may be differences in the number of visas available from one quarter to another. As such, the variable availability of visas may require us to incur significantly higher visa-related expenses in certain quarters when compared to others. For example, we incurred $11.0 million in costs for visas in the three months ended June 30, 2006, compared to $3.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2006. Such fluctuations may affect our operating margins and profitability in certain quarters during a fiscal year. We may not be able to sustain our previous profit margins or levels of profitability. Our profitability could be affected by pricing pressures on our services, volatility of the rupee against the dollar and other currencies and increased wage pressures in India and onsite. Since fiscal 2003, we have incurred substantially higher selling and marketing expenses as we have invested to increase brand awareness among target clients and promote client loyalty and repeat business among existing clients. Furthermore, over the past 12 months, the rupee has appreciated substantially relative to the US dollar. The exchange rate for one dollar based on the noon buying rate in the City of New York for cable transfers in Indian rupees as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was Rs. 43.10 as of March 30, 2007, as against Rs. 44.48 on March 31, 2006. On May 1, 2007, the noon buying rate was Rs. 41.00 per one US dollar. The appreciation of the rupee against the dollar has adversely impacted our revenues and operating results for fiscal 2007. In the event that t he dollar does not appreciate against the rupee, or in the event that the rupee further appreciates against the dollar, the results of our operations may be further adversely affected. We expect increased selling and marketing expenses in the future, which could result in declining profitability. In addition, while our Global Delivery Model allows us to manage costs efficiently, as the proportion of our services delivered at client sites increases, we may not be able to keep our operating costs as low in the future, which would also have an adverse impact on our profit margins. The economic environment, pricing pressure and rising wages in India and overseas could negatively impact our revenues and operating results. Spending on technology products and services in most parts of the world has been rising for the past few years after a two-year downward trend due to a challenging global economic environment. Our ability to maintain or increase pricing is restricted as clients often expect that as we do more business with them, they will receive volume discounts or special pricing incentives. Existing and new customers are also increasingly using third-party consultants with broad market knowledge to assist them in negotiating contractual terms. Large multinational companies are establishing larger offshore operations in India, resulting in wage pressures for Indian companies. This wage pressure is exacerbated by competition among Indian companies for qualified employees. Pricing pressures from our clients and wage pressures in India have negatively impacted our operating results. If economic growth slows, our utilization and billing rates for our technology professionals could be adversely affected, which may result in lower gross and operating profits. Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. We have grown significantly in recent periods. Between March 31, 2003 and March 31, 2007 our total employees grew from approximately 15,900 to approximately 72,200. In addition, in the last five years we have undertaken and continue to undertake major expansions of our existing facilities, as well as the construction of new facilities. We expect our growth to place significant demands on our management and other resources. Our growth will require us to continuously develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. In addition, continued growth increases the challenges involved in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high quality and process execution standards; preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; successfully expanding the range of services offered to our clients; developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction. Our growth strategy also relies on the expansion of our operations to other parts of the world, including Europe, Australia and other parts of Asia. In October 2003, we established Infosys China and in January 2004 we acquired Infosys Australia to expand our operations in those countries. In April 2004, we formed Infosys Consulting to focus on consulting services in the United States and announced our intention to hire aggressively in the United States. In addition, we have recently embarked on an expansion of our business in China, and have expended significant resources in this expansion. We recently announced our intent to open a development center in Mexico. The costs involved in entering and establishing ourselves in new markets, and expanding such operations, may be higher than expected and we may face significant competition in these regions. Our inability to manage our expansion and related growth in these regions may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial con dition. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions for our clients, which could lead to clients discontinuing their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. Over the past several years, we have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements by extending the breadth of services we offer. The success of some of our newer service offerings, such as operations and business process consulting, IT consulting, business process management, systems integration and infrastructure management, depends, in part, upon continued demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. Furthermore, our IT consulting business is not yet profitable, and its success in the future will depend on a number of factors. We cannot assure you that this business will become profitable in the future. In addition, our ability to effectively offer a wider breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to these service offerings. To obtain engagements for our end-to-end solutions, we are competing with large, well-established international consulting firms as well as other India-based technology services companies, resulting in increased competition and marketing costs. Accordingly, our new service offerings may not effectively meet client needs and we may be unable to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex client projects. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients and potentially with other technology service providers and vendors, and require a more thorough understanding of our clients' operations. Our ability to establish these relationships will depend on a number of factors including the proficiency of our technology professionals and our management personnel. Larger projects often involve multiple components, engagements or stages, and a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally, as opposed to factors related to the quality of our services. Cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and resource planning inaccuracies may have a negative impact on our profitability. Intense competition in the market for technology services could affect our cost advantages, which could reduce our share of business from clients and decrease our revenues. The technology services market is highly competitive. Our competitors include large consulting firms, captive divisions of large multinational technology firms, infrastructure management services firms, Indian technology services firms, software companies and in-house IT departments of large corporations. The technology services industry is experiencing rapid changes that are affecting the competitive landscape, including recent divestitures and acquisitions that have resulted in consolidation within the industry. These changes may result in larger competitors with significant resources. In addition, some of our competitors have added or announced plans to add cost-competitive offshore capabilities to their service offerings. These competitors may be able to offer their services using the offshore and onsite model more efficiently than we can. Many of these competitors are also substantially larger than us and have significant experience with international operations. We may face competition from these competitors in countries where we currently operate, as well as in countries in which we expect to expand our operations. We also expect additional competition from technology services firms with current operations in other countries, such as China and the Philippines. Many of our competitors have significan tly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues, have more extensive existing client relationships and technology partners and have greater brand recognition than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully against these competitors, or may lose clients to these competitors. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the price at which our competitors offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors' responsiveness to their clients' needs. Our revenues are highly dependent upon a small number of clients, and the loss of any one of our major clients could significantly impact our business. We have historically earned, and believe that in the future we will continue to earn, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of corporate clients. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, our largest client accounted for 7.0%, 4.4% and 5.5% of our total revenues, and our five largest clients together accounted for 19.4%, 17.8% and 21.0% of our total revenues. The volume of work we perform for specific clients is likely to vary from year to year, particularly since we historically have not been the exclusive external technology services provider for our clients. Thus, a major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenues in a subsequent year. However, in any given year, a limited number of clients tend to contribute a significant portion of our revenues. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a client and that may not be predictable. In certain cases, we have significantly reduced the services provided to a client when the client either changed its outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or replaced its existing software with packaged software supported by the licensor. Reduced technology spending in response to a challenging economic or competitive environment may also result in our loss of a client. If we lose one of our major clients or one of our major clients significantly reduces its volume of business with us, our revenues and profitability could be reduced. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients concentrated in certain industries, and economic slowdowns or factors that affect the economic health of the United States, Europe or these industries may affect our business. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 62.3%, 63.9% and 64.2% of our revenues were derived from the United States. In the same periods, approximately 26.4%, 24.5% and 22.3% of our revenues were derived from Europe. If the United States or European economy weakens, our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, we earned 37.4%, 36.0% and 34.5% of our revenues from the financial services industry, and 13.5%, 13.9% and 14.5% from the manufacturing industry. Any significant decrease in the growth of the financial services industry, or significant consolidation in that industry or decrease in growth or consolidation in other industry segments on which we focus, may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Legislation in certain of the countries in which we operate, including the United States and the United Kingdom, may restrict companies in those countries from outsourcing work overseas. Recently, some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs. In the United States, in particular, the growth of offshore outsourcing has received increasing political and media attention. Any changes to existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing may adversely impact our ability to do business in the United States, which is the largest market for our services. In the last three years, some US states have proposed legislation restricting government agencies from outsourcing their back office processes and IT solutions work to companies outside the United States or have enacted laws that limit or discourage such outsourcing. Such laws restrict our ability to do business with US government-related entities. It is also possible that US private sector companies working with these governmental entities may be restricted from outsourcing projects related to government contr acts or may face disincentives if they outsource certain operations. In the United Kingdom, the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employees) Regulations, or TUPE, including the recent revisions to those regulations, will allow employees who are dismissed as a result of "service provision changes", which may include outsourcing to non-UK companies, to seek compensation either from the company from which they were dismissed or from the company to which the work was transferred. This could deter UK companies from outsourcing work to us and could also result in our being held liable for redundancy payments to such workers. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. Our success depends largely upon our highly skilled technology professionals and our ability to hire, attract and retain these personnel. Our ability to execute projects, to maintain our client relationships and to obtain new clients depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled technology professionals, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. If we cannot hire and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to bid for and obtain new projects, and to continue to expand our business will be impaired and our revenues could decline. We believe that there is significant worldwide competition for technology professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. For example, in India, since 2004, hiring by technology companies has increased significantly. Excluding Infosys BPO and our other subsidiaries, we added approximately 8,800, 12,500 and 15,200 new employees, net of attrition, in fiscal 2005, 2006 and 2007. Increased hiring by technology companies, particularly in India, and increasing worldwide competition for skilled technology professionals may lead to a shortage in the availability of qualified personnel in the markets in which we operate and hire. The NASSCOM-McKinsey Report 2005 estimates that by 2010, employers will require approximately 2.3 million employees in India that provide IT and IT-enabled services, but that the number of qualified professionals that are trained to provide such services will be nearly 500,000 less than the projected requirements. Of this shortfall, approximately 70% will be in the IT-enabled services industry and the balance will be in the IT services industry. A shortage in the availability of qualified IT professionals in the markets in which we operate may affect our ability to hire an adequate number of skilled and experienced technology professionals. Our inability to hire such professionals may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and fina ncial condition. Changes in policies or laws may also affect the ability of technology companies to hire, attract and retain personnel. For instance, the Finance Bill, 2007 seeks to impose a fringe benefit tax, or FBT, on companies in respect of specified securities or equity shares allotted or transferred, directly or indirectly, by the company free of cost or at a concessional rate to its employees. The imposition of FBT may discourage technology companies in India from granting stock options to employees. Any suspension of stock option grants may affect the ability of technology companies to hire skilled and experienced technology professionals. Increased demand for technology professionals has also led to an increase in attrition rates. We estimate the attrition rate in the Indian technology services industry, which excludes the business process management industry, to be approximately 20% annually. Our comparable attrition rate in fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 was 13.7%, 11.2% and 9.7%, without accounting for attrition in Infosys BPO or our other subsidiaries. Furthermore, attrition in the business process management industry is generally significantly higher than in the technology services industry. We may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced technology professionals to replace those who leave. Additionally, we may not be able to redeploy and retrain our technology professionals to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our inability to attract and retain technology professionals may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of oper ations and financial condition. It is possible that the Central Government or other State Governments in India may introduce legislation requiring employers to give preferential hiring treatment to under-represented groups. The quality of our work force is critical to our business. If any such Central or State legislation becomes effective, our ability to hire the most highly qualified technology professionals may be hindered. Our success depends in large part upon our management team and key personnel and our ability to attract and retain them. We are highly dependent on the senior members of our management team, including the continued efforts of our Chairman, our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Operating Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, other executive members of the board and the management council, which consists of executive and other officers. As of June 22, 2007, our current Chief Executive Officer, Nandan M. Nilekani, will step down from his position and will be replaced by S. Gopalakrishnan, our current President and Chief Operating Officer. Furthermore, S.D.Shibulal, our current Group Head - Worldwide Sales and Customer Delivery will become our Chief Operating Officer, effective June 22, 2007. Our future performance will be affected by any disruptions in the continued service of our executives and other officers. We do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may not be able to retain such senior management personnel or attract and retain new senior management personnel in the future. The loss of any member of our senior management or other key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to complete fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts within budget and on time may negatively affect our profitability. As an element of our business strategy, we offer a portion of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, rather than on a time-and-materials basis. In fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, revenues from fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects accounted for 26.7%, 28.1% and 30.0% of our total services revenues including revenues from our business process management services. Although we use our software engineering methodologies and processes and past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to estimate accurately the resources and time required for a project, future wage inflation rates, or currency exchange rates, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. Our client contracts can typically be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Most of our client contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, can be terminated with or without cause, with between zero and 90 days' notice and without any termination-related penalties. Additionally, our contracts with clients are typically limited to discrete projects without any commitment to a specific volume of business or future work. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, and there are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control which might lead to termination of a project or the loss of a client, including: financial difficulties for a client; a change in strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of technology spending; a demand for price reductions; a change in outsourcing strategy by moving more work to the client's in-house technology departments or to our competitors; the replacement by our clients of existing software with packaged software supported by licensors; mergers and acquisitions; and consolidation of technology spending by a client, whether arising out of mergers and acquisitions, or otherwise. Our inability to control the termination of client contracts could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our engagements with customers are singular in nature and do not necessarily provide for subsequent engagements. Our clients generally retain us on a short-term, engagement-by-engagement basis in connection with specific projects, rather than on a recurring basis under long-term contracts. Although a substantial majority of our revenues are generated from repeat business, which we define as revenue from a client who also contributed to our revenue during the prior fiscal year, our engagements with our clients are typically for projects that are singular in nature. Therefore, we must seek out new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated, and we are constantly seeking to expand our business with existing clients and secure new clients for our services. In addition, in order to continue expanding our business, we may need to significantly expand our sales and marketing group, which would increase our expenses and may not necessarily result in a substantial increase in business. If we are unable to generate a substantial number of new engagements for projects on a continual basis, our business and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Our client contracts are often conditioned upon our performance, which, if unsatisfactory, could result in less revenue than previously anticipated. A number of our contracts have incentive-based or other pricing terms that condition some or all of our fees on our ability to meet defined performance goals or service levels. Our failure to meet these goals or a client's expectations in such performance-based contracts may result in a less profitable or an unprofitable engagement. Some of our long-term client contracts contain benchmarking provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and profitability under the contract. As the size and duration of our client engagements increase, clients may increasingly require benchmarking provisions. Benchmarking provisions allow a customer in certain circumstances to request a benchmark study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing our pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services to that of an agreed upon list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to reduce the pricing for future services to be performed under the balance of the contract, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and the industries on which we focus. The technology services market is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet client needs. We may fail to anticipate or respond to these advances in a timely basis, or, if we do respond, the services or technologies that we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NASDAQ Global Select Market rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India, or SEBI, rules, and Indian stock market listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Our independent auditors may be unable to issue unqualified attestation reports on management's assessment on the operating effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In connection with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for fiscal 2007, our management assessed our internal controls over financial reporting, and determined that our internal controls were effective as of March 31, 2007, and our auditors have issued an unqualified attestation with respect to our management's assessment. However, we will undertake management assessments of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with each annual report, and any deficiencies uncovered by these assessments or any inability of our auditors to issue an unqualified attestation could harm our reputation and the price of our equity shares and ADSs. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties and our SEC reporting obligations. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations, our business and reputation may be harmed. Disruptions in telecommunications, system failures, or virus attacks could harm our ability to execute our Global Delivery Model, which could result in client dissatisfaction and a reduction of our revenues. A significant element of our distributed project management methodology, which we refer to as our Global Delivery Model, is to continue to leverage and expand our global development centers. We currently have 44 global development centers located in various countries around the world. Our global development centers are linked with a telecommunications network architecture that uses multiple service providers and various satellite and optical links with alternate routing. We may not be able to maintain active voice and data communications between our various global development centers and our clients' sites at all times due to disruptions in these networks, system failures or virus attacks. Any significant failure in our ability to communicate could result in a disruption in business, which could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to client dissatisfaction and a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial con dition. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services. We are often required to collect and store sensitive or confidential client and customer data. Many of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients' customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients' businesses, and provide benefits which may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client's system or breaches of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a client, or poor execution of such services, could result in a client terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, however, this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms and may be unavailable in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. Also an insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, could adversely affect our operating results. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. As of March 31, 2007, we had contractual commitments of approximately $158 million for capital expenditures, particularly related to the expansion or construction of facilities. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions will increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. We may be unable to recoup our investment costs to develop our software products. In fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005, we earned 3.9%, 3.8% and 3.0% of our total revenue from the sale of software products. The development of our software products requires significant investments. The markets for our primary suite of software products which we call Finacle® are competitive. Our current software products or any new software products that we develop may not be commercially successful and the costs of developing such new software products may not be recouped. Since software product revenues typically occur in periods subsequent to the periods in which the costs are incurred for the development of such software products, delayed revenues may cause periodic fluctuations in our operating results. Our insiders who are significant shareholders may control the election of our board and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders or holders of our ADSs. Our executive officers and directors, together with members of their immediate families, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, 16.92% of our issued equity shares as of May 1, 2007. As a result, acting together, this group has the ability to exercise significant control over most matters requiring our shareholders' approval, including the election and removal of directors and significant corporate transactions. We may engage in acquisitions, strategic investments, strategic partnerships or alliances or other ventures that may or may not be successful. We may acquire or make strategic investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships or alliances with third parties in order to enhance our business. For example, in 2004, we acquired Infosys Australia, and subsequently established Infosys China and Infosys Consulting in the United States. It is possible that we may not identify suitable acquisitions, candidates for strategic investment or strategic partnerships, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us, or at all. The inability to identify suitable acquisition targets or investments or the inability to complete such transactions may affect our competitiveness and our growth prospects. If we acquire or establish a company, we could have difficulty in assimilating that company's personnel, operations, technology and software. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired or the established company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. We have made and may in the future make strategic investments in early-stage technology start-up companies in order to gain experience in or exploit niche technologies. However, our investments may not be successful. For example, in fiscal 2004, we made loss provisions of $2 million related to these investments. The lack of profitability of any of our investments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our earnings have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the change to our accounting policies with respect to the expensing of stock options. We deduct the expense of employee stock option grants from our income based on the fair value method. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment requiring companies to change their accounting policies to record the fair value of stock options issued to employees as an expense. Our stock compensation expense as of March 31, 2007 as determined under the fair value method was approximately $5 million. Pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Release No. 33-8568, we adopted SFAS 123R as of April 1, 2006. The change in the standard has adversely affected our operating results and will continue to do so in the event we make any future grants. As an example, had compensation cost for our stock-based compensation plan been determined in a manner consistent with the existing fair value approach described in SFAS No. 123, our net income as reported would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts o f approximately $545 million from $555 million in fiscal 2006 and $393 million from $419 million in fiscal 2005. Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies and International Operations Generally Our net income would decrease if the Government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it provides to us or when our tax holidays expire or terminate. Currently, the Government of India provides tax benefits to companies that export software from specially designated software technology parks in India. These tax benefits include a 10-year tax holiday from Indian corporate income taxes. We benefit from the 10-year tax holiday on Indian corporate income taxes for the operation of most of our Indian facilities, and as a result, our operations have been subject to relatively low tax liabilities. These tax incentives resulted in a decrease in our income tax expense of $224 million, $160 million and $126 million for fiscal 2007, fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 compared to the effective tax rates that we estimate would have applied if these incentives had not been available. The Finance Act, 2000 phases out the 10-year tax holiday available to companies that export software from specially designated software technology parks in India, such that it is available only until the earlier of fiscal year 2009 or 10 years after the commencement of a company's undertaking. In the Finance Act, 2005, the Government of India introduced a separate tax holiday scheme for units set up under designated special economic zones, or SEZs, engaged in manufacture of articles or in provision of services. Under this scheme, units in designated SEZs which begin providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for a deduction of 100 percent of profits or gains derived from the export of services for the first five years from commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such profits or gains for a further five years. Certain tax benefits are also available for a further five years subject to the unit meeting defined conditions. The expiration, modification o r termination of any of our tax benefits or holidays would likely increase our effective tax rates, and have a material and adverse effect on our net income. The Finance Bill, 2007, currently pending before the Indian Parliament, has proposed to include income eligible for deductions under sections 10A and 10B of the Indian Income Tax Act in the computation of book profits for the levy of a Minimum Alternative Tax, or MAT. The rate of MAT, effective April 1, 2007, would be 11.33% (including a surcharge and education cess) on our book profits determined after including income eligible for deductions under Sections 10A and 10B of the Indian Income Tax Act. The Income tax Act provides that the MAT paid by us can be adjusted against our tax liability over the next five years. Although MAT paid by us can be set off against our future income tax liability, our net income and cash flows could be adversely affected. In the event that the Government of India or the government of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase, reducing our profitability. In the recent years, the Government of India has introduced a tax on various services provided within India including on the maintenance and repair of software. Under this tax, service providers are required to pay a tax of 12% (excluding applicable education cess) on the value of services provided to customers. The Government of India may expand the services covered under the ambit of this tax to include various services provided by us. This tax, if expanded, could increase our expenses, and could adversely affect our operating margins. Although currently there are no material pending or threatened claims against us for service taxes, such claims may be asserted against us in the future. Defending these claims would be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. The Finance Bill, 2007 seeks to impose a fringe benefit tax on companies in respect of specified securities or equity shares allotted or transferred, directly or indirectly, by the company free of cost or at a concessional rate to its employees. The value of the fringe benefit will be the fair market value, or FMV, of the specified security or share on the date of exercise of the option by the employee as reduced by the amount actually paid by, or recovered from the employee in respect of such security or share. As of March 31, 2007, we have approximately 2.08 million options outstanding under our 1998 ADS stock option plan with a weighted average exercise price of $21 and 1.90 million options outstanding under our 1999 equity stock option plan with a weighted average exercise price of $26. As of March 31, 2007, the market price of our ADS was $50.25 and the market price of our equity share was $46.84. The Finance Bill, 2007 is currently pending before Parliament and the rules applicable for the levy of FBT remain to be framed. Currently, there is uncertainty regarding the imposition of FBT, including the rate of FBT, its applicability to securities allotted to non-residents and the method of determination of FMV. Further, even if the method of determination of FMV is finalised, it will be difficult to estimate the amount of FBT in view of the uncertainties and volatility associated with the market price of our shares. The prevailing uncertainty over the imposition of FBT could adversely affect our business conditions and any FBT levied on us in the future on the exercise of options granted by us could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in jurisdictions that impose transfer pricing and other tax-related regulations on us, and any failure to comply could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with various transfer pricing regulations in India and other countries. Failure to comply with such regulations may impact our effective tax rates and consequently affect our net margins. Additionally, we operate in several countries and our failure to comply with the local tax regime may result in additional taxes, penalties and enforcement actions from such authorities. In the event that we do not properly comply with transfer pricing and tax-related regulations, our profitability may be adversely affected. Wage pressures in India may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margins. Wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive strengths. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. Wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States, which could result in increased costs for companies seeking to employ technology professionals in India, particularly project managers and other mid-level professionals. We may need to increase our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive with other employers, or seek to recruit in other low labor cost jurisdictions to keep our wage costs low. For example, we recently established a long term retention bonus policy for our senior executives and employees. Under this policy, certain senior executives and employees will be entitled to a yearly cash bonus upon their continue d employment with us based upon seniority, their role in the Company and their performance. Compensation increases may result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 7, 2005 in London, the attacks of July 11, 2006 in Mumbai, and other acts of violence or war, such as the continuing conflict in Iraq, have the potential to have a direct impact on our clients. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the United States or Europe, our business may be significantly impacted, as the majority of our revenues are derived from clients located in the United States and Europe. In addition, such attacks may make travel more difficult, may make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of our technology professionals who are required to work in the United States or Europe, and may effectively curtail our ability to deliver our services to our clients. Such obstacles to business may increase our expenses and negatively affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, any attacks in India could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our clients, and could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our clients or potential clients to choose other vendors for the services we provide. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could make travel more difficult, may disrupt our ability to provide services to our clients and could delay, postpone or cancel our clients' decisions to use our services. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses and be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. In addition if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products or services from us. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. In recent years there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan that have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. The vast majority of our employees are Indian nationals. Most of our projects require a portion of the work to be completed at the client's location. The ability of our technology professionals to work in the United States, Europe and in other countries depends on the ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. As of March 31, 2007, the majority of our technology professionals in the United States held either H-1B visas (approximately 7,100 persons, not including Infosys BPO employees or employees of our wholly owned subsidiaries), allowing the employee to remain in the United States for up to six years during the term of the work permit and work as long as he or she remains an employee of the sponsoring firm, or L-1 visas (approximately 650 persons, not including Infosys BPO employees or employees of our wholly owned subsidiaries), allowing the employee to stay in the United States only temporarily. Although there is no limit to new L-1 visas, there is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B visas that the US Citizenship and Immigration Services, or CIS, may approve in any government fiscal year. In 2000, the United States temporarily increased the annual limit for H-1B visas to 195,000 beginning in 2001, however, this increase expired in 2003 and the limit was returned to 65,000 annually. In November 2004, the United States Congress passed a measure that increased the number of available H-1B visas to 85,000 per year. The 20,000 additional visas are only available to skilled workers who possess a Master's or higher degree from institutions of higher education in the United States. Further, in response to the terrorist attacks in the United States, the CIS has increased its level of scrutiny in granting new visas. This may, in the future, also lead to limits on the number of L-1 visas granted. In addition, the granting of L-1 visas precludes companies from obtaining such visas for employees with specialized knowledge: (1) if such employees will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another company in the US and the employee will not be controlled and supervised by his employer, or (2) if such offsite placement is essentially an arrangement to provide labor for hire rather than in connection with the employee's specialized knowledge. Immigration laws in the United States may also requir e us to meet certain levels of compensation, and to comply with other legal requirements, including labor certifications, as a condition to obtaining or maintaining work visas for our technology professionals working in the United States. The CIS announced on April 3, 2007, the second day that the window was open for receipt of H-1 B visa petitions for fiscal 2008, that it had received enough H-1 B visa petitions to meet the congressionally mandated cap for fiscal 2008. The CIS will use a computer-generated random selection process among approximately 119,000 cap-subject petitions received by April 3, 2007 and will reject all petitions received on those days that are not randomly selected. Any inability to receive sufficient visas for travel to the US during fiscal 2008 could affect our ability to staff projects there and therefore adversely affect our business condition and results of operations. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. Our reliance on work visas for a significant number of technology professionals makes us particularly vulnerable to such changes and variations as it affects our ability to staff projects with technology professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our technology professionals or may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining the conditions of such visas. Additionally, we may have to apply in advance for visas and this could result in additional expense s during certain quarters of the fiscal year. Changes in the policies of the Government of India or political instability could delay the further liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India generally, which could impact our business and prospects. Since 1991, successive Indian governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Central and State governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The current Government of India, formed in May 2004, has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization policies pursued by previous governments. However, these liberalization policies may not continue in the future. The rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India's economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally, and our business in particular. For instance, in April 2007, the Government of India announced a number of changes in its policies applicable to Special Economic Zones, or SEZs, to provide for, among other things, a cap on the size of land available for SEZs. The Indian Government has also announced its intent to make further changes in the SEZ policies. Our software development centers located at Chandigarh and Chennai currently operate out of SEZs and many of our proposed development centers are likely to operate out of SEZs. If the Government of India changes its policies affecting SEZs in a manner that is adverse to us, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Political instability could also delay the reform of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Currency fluctuations may affect the results or our operations or the value of our ADSs. Our functional currency is the Indian rupee although we transact a major portion of our business in several currencies and accordingly face foreign currency exposure through our sales in the United States and elsewhere, and purchases from overseas suppliers in various foreign currencies. Historically, we have held a substantial majority of our cash funds in rupees. Accordingly, changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, other income, cost of services sold, gross margin and net income, and may have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The exchange rate between the rupee and foreign currencies, including the dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling and the Euro, has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. We expect that a majority of our revenues will continue to be generated in foreign currencies, including the dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling and the Euro, for the foreseeable future and that a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be denominated in Indian rupees. Consequently, the results of our operations are adversely affected as the rupee appreciates against the dollar and other foreign currencies. We use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on accounts receivable and forecasted cash flows denominated in certain foreign currencies. As of March 31, 2007, we held foreign exchange forward contracts of $170 million, Euro 2 million and United Kingdom Pound Sterling 6 million. The foreign exchange forward contracts mature in between 1 to 12 months. As of March 31, 2007, we held range barrier options of $207 million and United Kingdom Pound Sterling 8 million, Euro Accelerator options of Euro 24 million and Target Redemption Structure options of United Kingdom Pound Sterling 16 million. The increase in our use of derivative instruments is primarily attributable to our decision to actively hedge our foreign currency exposure given the recent volatility of the Indian rupee against foreign currencies, including the US dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling and the Euro. We may not purc hase derivative instruments adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. Additionally, the policies of the Reserve Bank of India may change from time to time which may limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposures adequately. In addition, a high-level committee appointed by the Reserve Bank of India recently recommended that India move to increased capital account convertibility over the next five years, and proposed a framework for such increased convertibility. Full or increased capital account convertibility, if introduced, could result in increased volatility in the fluctuations of exchange rates between the rupee and foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the rupee and the dollar will also affect the dollar conversion by Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, the Depositary, of any cash dividends paid in rupees on the equity shares represented by the ADSs. In addition, these fluctuations will affect the dollar equivalent of the rupee price of equity shares on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, the prices of our ADSs in the United States, as well as the dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any equity shares withdrawn from the Depositary under the Depositary Agreement. Holders may not be able to convert rupee proceeds into dollars or any other currency, and there is no guarantee of the rate at which any such conversion will occur, if at all. Our international expansion plans subject us to risks inherent in doing business internationally. Currently, we have global development centers in nine countries around the world, with our largest development centers located in India. We have recently established or intend to establish new development facilities, potentially in Southeast Asia, Africa, Latin America and Europe. In October 2003, we established Infosys China and in January 2004 we acquired Infosys Australia to expand our operations in those countries. In April 2004, we formed Infosys Consulting to focus on consulting services in the United States. We also have a very large workforce spread across our various offices worldwide. As of March 31, 2007, we employed approximately 72,200 employees worldwide, and approximately 15,100 of those employees were located outside of India. Because of our limited experience with facilities outside of India, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to compliance with a wide variety of treaties, national and local laws, including multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes, privacy laws and laws dealing with data protection, export control laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and national and local labor laws dealing with immigration, employee health and safety, and wages and benefits, applicable to our employees located in our various international offices and facilities. We may from time to time be subject to litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former employees, individually or as part of a class action, including for claims of wrongful termination, discrimination, misclassification, payment of redundancy payments under TUPE-type legislation, or other violations of labor laws, or other alleged conduct. If such litigation or actions are successful, it could result in our being held liable for unpaid compensation, redundancy payments, statutory penalties, and other damages, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. As an international company, our offshore and onsite operations may also be impacted by disease, epidemics and local political instability. Our international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. Any of these events could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. It may be difficult for holders of our ADSs to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of India and many of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. Virtually all of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, holders of our ADSs may be unable to effect service of process upon us outside the United States. In addition, holders of our ADSs may be unable to enforce judgments against us if such judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. The United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States on the basis of civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, would not be enforceable in India. However, the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered may bring a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the United States. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to repatriate any amount recovered pursuant to the execution of such a judgment. The laws of India do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. We may also be subject to third party claims of intellectual property infringement. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. However, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our products, services or proprietary information. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenues and increase our expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time consuming and costly. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights increase, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defense against these claims, even if such claims are not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. Although there are currently no material pending or threatened intellectual property claims against us, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications or products that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India depends on the approval of the Government of India and/or the Reserve Bank of India, and failure to obtain this approval could negatively impact our business. Generally, the Reserve Bank of India must approve any acquisition by us of any company organized outside of India. The Reserve Bank of India permits acquisitions of companies organized outside of India by an Indian party without approval in the following circumstances: if the transaction consideration is paid in cash, the transaction value does not exceed 200% of the net worth of the acquiring company as on the date of the latest audited balance sheet, or unless the acquisition is funded with cash from the acquiring company's existing foreign currency accounts or with cash proceeds from the issue of ADRs/GDRs; or if the transaction consideration is paid in stock (i.e., by issue of ADRs/GDRs), the transaction value does not exceed ten times the acquiring company's previous fiscal year's export earnings. In its annual policy statement for 2007-08 announced on April 24, 2007, the Reserve Bank of India has proposed to enhance the overseas investment limit for an Indian acquirer from the existing limit of 200 per cent of their net worth to 300 per cent of their net worth as per the last audited balance sheet. It is possible that any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India and the Ministry of Finance of the Government of India or any other government agency may not be obtained. Our failure to obtain approvals for acquisitions of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our business and prospects. Indian laws limit our ability to raise capital outside India and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which could prevent us from operating our business or entering into a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Indian law relating to foreign exchange management constrains our ability to raise capital outside India through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. Generally, any foreign investment in, or acquisition of, an Indian company, subject to certain exceptions, requires approval from relevant government authorities in India, including the Reserve Bank of India. There are, however, certain exceptions to this approval requirement for technology companies on which we are able to rely. Changes to such policies may create restrictions on our capital raising abilities. For example, a limit on the foreign equity ownership of Indian technology companies or pricing restrictions on the issue of ADRs/GDRs may constrain our ability to seek and obtain additional equity investment by foreign investors. In addition, these restrictions, if applied to us, may prevent us from entering into certain transactions, such as an acquisition by a non-Indian company, which might otherwise be beneficial for us and the h olders of our equity shares and ADSs. Additionally, under current Indian law, the sale of a technology services company can result in the loss of the tax benefits for specially designed software technology parks in India. The potential loss of this tax benefit may discourage others from acquiring us or entering into a transaction with us that is in the best interest of our shareholders. Risks Related to the ADSs Historically, our ADSs have traded at a significant premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares, and may not continue to do so in the future. Historically, our ADSs have traded on NASDAQ at a premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on the Indian stock exchanges. Please see the section entitled "Price History" for the underlying data. We believe that this price premium has resulted from the relatively small portion of our market capitalization previously represented by ADSs, restrictions imposed by Indian law on the conversion of equity shares into ADSs, and an apparent preference of some investors to trade dollar-denominated securities. We have already completed three secondary ADS offerings and the completion of any additional secondary ADS offering will significantly increase the number of our outstanding ADSs. Also, over time, some of the restrictions on the issuance of ADSs imposed by Indian law have been relaxed and we expect that other restrictions may be relaxed in the future. As a result, the historical premium enjoyed by ADSs as compared to equity shares may be reduced or eliminated upon the completion of any additional secondary offering of our ADSs or similar transactions in the future, a change in Indian law permitting further conversion of equity shares into ADSs or changes in investor preferences. Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and the ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our equity shares, including sales by our insiders, in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our equity shares or the ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders as we have done in the past, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares, or the availability of our equity shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Indian law imposes certain restrictions that limit a holder's ability to transfer the equity shares obtained upon conversion of ADSs and repatriate the proceeds of such transfer which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares may be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and then repatriate that foreign currency from India, he or she will have to obtain Reserve Bank of India approval for each such transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms favorable to a non-resident investor or at all. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. Under the Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of A DSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the Depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the Depositary will mail to holders of our ADSs any notice of shareholders' meeting received from us together with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions from a holder of our ADSs in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to such holder, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by such holder's ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that holders of our ADSs will receive voting materials in time to enable such holders to return voting instructions to the Depositary in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our equity shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. 