RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions, particularly in our primary markets, North America and Europe. The principal risks are described below. Economic A decline in demand, in particular in our primary markets, the United States and Western Europe, could significantly adversely affect our profitability and cash flows and our strategic expansion plans. Any of several factors could contribute to a decline in demand for our passenger cars and commercial vehicles in the United States or Western Europe. For example, the U.S. economy increasingly requires significant capital inflow from non-U.S. investors to finance its large current account deficit. A pronounced decline in demand for U.S. dollar denominated investments could lead to a sharp depreciation of the U.S. dollar and force the United States to raise its key interest rates. The latter would increase capital costs and likely reduce demand for vehicles. A drop in economic growth in Western Europe, on the other hand, could result not only from any structural weakness or a decline in domestic demand in major European economies, but also from a decline in the U.S. economy resulting in less demand for European goods and services in the U.S. Continued rising energy costs or sustained high energy prices, especially for crude oil, could significantly influence worldwide consumption and investment or lead to declines in demand if central banks try to limit inflationary pressure by substantially increasing interest rates. Both events may adversely impact automotive sales. Rising energy costs can lead to a shift to smaller, lighter, more fuel-efficient cars, which generally provide a lower gross margin than larger vehicles, as well as deferral of purchases. Since we derive substantial revenues from the United States and Western Europe, the occurrence of any of these events, or other events that threaten consumer and investor confidence (international disputes, political instability, terrorism, etc.) may significantly adversely affect our future sales, operating results and cash flows. In addition, an economic decline in the Asian economies could not only negatively affect future business prospects of our subsidiary Mitsubishi Fuso Truck and Bus Corporation and our Mercedes-Benz passenger car sales, but also our long-term strategic expansion plans for growth in Asian markets. An economic downturn in China, in particular, could delay that expansion and could adversely impact our existing activities in these markets. Moreover, deteriorating economic conditions in Asia, especially if coupled with depreciating Asian currencies, could lead Asian competitors with excess capacity to intensify their efforts to export vehicles to North America and Western Europe. This would not only intensify competition for market share, but also increase further the existing pressure on margins within the automotive industry. We also maintain production facilities and sales and finance companies in other regions of the world which may be affected by local and regional adverse economic and political developments. Some of the countries in those regions may experience severe economic contraction or currency fluctuation, which could adversely affect domestic demand in those and neighboring countries as well as our production facilities. For example, our Commercial Vehicles segment maintains production facilities and sells significant numbers of vehicles in Turkey and in several South American countries, some of which have experienced such conditions in the recent past. Demand for motor vehicles could also be affected by the political and regulatory environment in the markets in which we operate. For example, a discord in international trade relations and the implementation of new tariff or non-tariff trade barriers could negatively affect our global sales and procurement activities as well as expansion plans in affected areas. The proliferation of bilateral free trade agreements between third party countries could negatively affect our position in those foreign markets, especially in Southeast Asia where Japan increasingly gains preferential market access. 5 Industry and Business Overcapacity and intense competition in the automotive industry create pricing pressure and force further cost reductions. Intense price competition and overcapacity in the automotive industry could force manufacturers of passenger cars and commercial vehicles to decrease production, reduce capacity or increase sales incentives. Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability depends, among other things, on the successful implementation of cost reduction programs or efficiency optimizations, including achievement of sustainable price reductions from suppliers. Our ability to achieve such price reductions from suppliers may be limited by a combination of factors including consolidation among automotive suppliers, the use of a single supplier for certain components, and increasing supplier insolvencies. In addition, the Chrysler Group faces renewed pressure to continue its cost reduction efforts in light of the plans announced by some of its major competitors in the NAFTA region over the past several months relating to plant closures, workforce reductions and labor costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to provide competitive sales incentives, customers may elect to purchase competitors' products and our future profitability may suffer. The revenues and operating results of the Chrysler Group are particularly sensitive to sales incentives because consumers in the U.S. and Canadian automotive markets have come to expect them. Sales incentives have become more common in West European markets as well. Sales incentives in the new vehicle business also influence the price level of used vehicles, which could adversely affect the profitability of our used vehicle sales and, indirectly, the profitability of our future new vehicle sales. High commodities prices and increased pressure on our suppliers could negatively impact our profitability. The rising demand in the worldwide commodities markets for raw materials that we use in our production process, such as steel and petroleum based products, have led to price increases in such materials. Continued high prices or further price increases for raw materials will lead to higher component and production costs that could in turn negatively impact our future operating results, profitability and cash flows because we may not be able to pass all of those costs on to our customers or suppliers. Additionally, the intense competition in the automotive industry is having a significant adverse effect on the financial position and business continuity of key suppliers. In 2005, there has been an increase in bankruptcies and other signs of financial distress among automotive suppliers. We could be severely impacted if a supplier is unable to meet our production requirements due to its financial condition or otherwise. We have provided, and in the future may be required to provide, financial support to suppliers in order to avoid prolonged interruption in the supply of components, which could negatively impact our profitability. Risks arising from our leasing and sales financing business may adversely affect our future operating results and cash flows. The financial services we offer in connection with the sale of vehicles involve several risks, including higher refinancing costs, and the potential inability to recover our investments in leased vehicles and to collect our sales financing receivables. If any of these risks materialize, our future operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. For instance, our ability to recover our investments in leased vehicles may deteriorate as a result of a decline in resale prices of used vehicles. Our ability to collect our sales financing receivables could be negatively impacted by consumer and dealer insolvencies. New vehicle sales incentives indirectly lower the resale prices of used vehicles. A decline in resale prices of used vehicles could in turn result in downward pressure on the carrying values of leased vehicles and negatively affect the collateral value of our sales financing and finance lease receivables. Please refer to "Critical Accounting Policies" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" for additional information on how we account for our leasing and sales financing business and how sales incentives could affect this business. 6 Our future profitability will depend on the ability to offer competitive prices while maintaining a high level of product quality. Product quality significantly influences the consumer's decision to purchase passenger cars and commercial vehicles. Reductions in our product quality could severely tarnish our image as a manufacturer and thereby negatively affect our future sales and, as a consequence, our future operating results and cash flows. Consumers, however, increasingly react more sensitively to pricing, which may result in continued or intensified pricing pressures which may limit our ability to pass price increases on to customers. Our attempts to reduce costs along the automotive value chain may place additional cost and pricing pressure on suppliers, which can also negatively affect product quality. Additionally, component parts or assembly defects could require us to undertake service actions and recall campaigns, or even to develop new technical solutions requiring regulatory certification prior to implementation. We may need to expend considerable resources for these remediation measures, resulting in higher accruals for new warranties issued and expenses in excess of accrued liabilities for product guarantees previously issued. Our future success depends on our ability to offer innovative new products and meet consumer demand. Meeting consumer demand with new vehicles developed over increasingly shorter product development cycle times is critical to the success of automobile manufacturers. Our ability to strengthen our position within our traditional product and market segments through research and development of innovative products and services while expanding into additional market segments with innovative new products will play an important role in determining our future success. A general shift in consumer preference towards smaller, lower margin vehicles, which could result from, among other things, government regulations, environmental concerns and increasing fuel prices could have a negative effect on our profitability. Potential delays in bringing new vehicles to market, the inability to achieve defined efficiency targets without suffering from quality losses and a lack of market acceptance of our new models would adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to legal proceedings and environmental and other government regulations. A negative outcome in one or more of our pending legal proceedings could adversely affect our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Please refer to the discussion under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in "Item 8. Financial Information" for further information. The automotive industry is subject to extensive government regulations worldwide. Laws in various jurisdictions regulate occupant safety and the environmental impact of vehicles, including emission levels, fuel economy and noise, as well as the levels of pollutants generated by the plants that produce them. The cost of compliance with these regulations is significant, and we expect to incur higher compliance costs in the future. New legislation may subject us to additional expense in the future, which could be significant. Risks arising from contingent obligations could affect us adversely. We sometimes provide guarantees for third party liabilities, principally in connection with liabilities of our non-consolidated affiliated companies, and performance guarantees related to the contractual performance of joint ventures, non-incorporated companies, partnerships and project groups. These liability and performance guarantees may expose us to financial risk. For example, as a result of the guarantees and other obligations DaimlerChrysler Financial Services undertook as one of the consortium members of Toll Collect, our future operating results and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by penalties, damage claims and losses associated with an underperformance of the system or a delayed introduction of additional system features. For further information concerning this agreement, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements—Obligations under guarantees" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects." 7 Financial We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Our businesses, operations and reported financial results and cash flows are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in the exchange rates of the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Japanese yen and other world currencies against the euro. Moreover, in order to manage the liquidity and cash needs of our day-to-day operations, we hold a variety of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities and we manage a substantial volume of interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities in connection with our lease and sales financing business. Changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates may have substantial adverse effects on our operating results and cash flows. For example, a strengthening of the euro against the U.S. dollar and other world currencies could significantly adversely affect our operating results and cash flows because a significant portion of our business, primarily in the case of the Mercedes Car Group, depends in part on export sales to the United States. For more information on how changes in exchange rates and interest rates may impact our operating results and cash flows, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Introduction" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" and to the discussion about market risk in "Item 11. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk." Downgrades of our long-term debt ratings increase our cost of capital and may negatively affect our businesses. Downgrades by rating agencies may increase our cost of capital and, as a result, could negatively affect our businesses, especially our leasing and sales financing business which is typically financed with a high proportion of debt. For a more detailed description of our credit ratings, please refer to the discussion under the heading "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects." We depend on the issuance of term debt to manage liquidity, and declines in our operating performance may limit our ability to issue such debt. To manage the liquidity of the Group, we depend on the issuance of term debt, principally in the U.S. and European capital markets. Declines in our operating performance and changes in demand for this type of debt instrument could increase our borrowing costs or otherwise limit our ability to fund operations, either of which would negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. We may need to make significant cash contributions or increase accruals with respect to the funding of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. In addition, our total pension and other post-retirement benefit expense may increase. Our pension and other post-retirement obligations are significant and are partially underfunded. The funded status of our off-balance sheet pension and other post-retirement benefit plans is subject to changes in actuarial and other related assumptions and to actual developments. Even small changes in the assumptions which affect the benefit plan valuation, such as discount rates, rates for compensation increase, mortality rates, retirement rates, health care cost trend rates and other factors, may lead to significant increases in the value of the respective obligations, which would affect the reported funded status of our plans and, as a consequence, could negatively affect our total pension and other post-retirement benefit expense in the following years. Actual developments, such as an unfavorable performance of capital markets — particularly with respect to equity securities — can result in significant decreases in the market value of plan assets. This in turn would affect the reported funded status of our plans. In addition, lower plan assets or a decrease in the rate of expected return on plan assets can result in higher pension and other post-retirement benefit expense in subsequent years. Please refer to the discussions under the headings "Critical Accounting Policies" and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" as well as to Note 25a to our 8 Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on pension and other post-retirement benefit accounting. 