ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a degree of risk. Persons buying our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company and is not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Successful divestitures and other strategic transactions are important to our future growth and profitability. We evaluate potential divestitures, including the possible divestiture of our Logan’s Roadhouse, Inc. subsidiary, and capital structure initiatives as part of our strategic planning process. These transactions involve various inherent risks, including accurately assessing: · the value, future growth potential, strengths, weaknesses, contingent and other liabilities and potential profitability of the business units of our Company; · our ability to achieve projected economic and operating plans; unanticipated changes in business, capital markets and economic conditions affecting the business and divestiture initiative; and · our ability to complete divestitures on acceptable terms and at or near the prices estimated as attainable by us. Our credit facility places financial and other restrictions on us. Our $1.25 billion credit facility that we entered into in connection with our 2006 strategic initiatives imposes financial covenants, including maintaining a minimum defined fixed charge coverage ratio and a maximum defined leverage ratio. In addition, the credit facility limits our ability to make dividend distributions and make certain payments to reduce outstanding indebtedness. The lender’s ongoing obligation to extend credit under the revolving credit portion of the facility will depend upon our compliance with these and other covenants. Indebtedness may have important additional consequences, including placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt, limiting our flexibility in planning for changes in our business and the industry and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business. Certain economic and business factors specific to the restaurant or retail industries and certain general economic factors that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business results depend on a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. The full-service dining sector of the restaurant industry and the retail industry are affected by changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, seasonal fluctuation of sales volumes, consumer preferences, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits and the level of consumer acceptance of our restaurant concepts and retail merchandise, and consumer spending patterns. The performance of individual locations may also be adversely affected by factors such as demographic trends, severe weather including hurricanes, traffic patterns, the price and availability of gasoline and the type, number and location of competing restaurants. In addition, general or regional economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, a protracted economic slowdown, a worsening economy or industry-wide cost pressures, could affect consumer behavior and spending for restaurant dining occasions or retail merchandise and lead to a decline in sales and earnings. Furthermore, we cannot predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements on the economy or consumer confidence in the United States. Any of these events could also affect consumer spending patterns or result in increased costs for us due to security measures. Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs, reduce traffic in some or all of our locations or impose practical limits on 15 pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by changes in consumer preferences and discretionary spending. Our success depends, in part, upon the popularity of our food and retail products. Shifts in consumer preferences away from our restaurants or food or retail items would harm our business. Also, our success depends to a significant extent on discretionary consumer spending, which is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty like those that followed the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 and Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in September 2005. In addition, recent increases in fuel and other energy prices could decrease discretionary consumer spending. Any material decline in consumer confidence or the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, business and financial condition. Our business is seasonal. Historically, our highest sales and profits have occurred during the summer. Winter, excluding the Christmas holidays, has historically been the period of lowest sales and profits although retail revenues historically have been seasonally higher between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Therefore, the results of operations for any quarter or period of less than one year cannot be considered indicative of the operating results for a full fiscal year. Additionally, severe weather, storms and similar conditions may affect sales volumes seasonally in some operating regions. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The casual dining sector of the restaurant industry is intensely competitive with respect to pricing, service, location, personnel and type and quality of food, and there are many well-established competitors. We compete within each market with national and regional restaurant chains and locally-owned restaurants. Competition from other restaurant chains typically represents the more important competitive influence, principally because of their significant marketing and financial resources. However, we also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry. We compete primarily on the quality, variety and value perception of menu and retail items, the number and location of restaurants, type of concept, quality and efficiency of service, attractiveness of facilities and effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs. We anticipate that intense competition will continue with respect to all of these factors. Moreover, our competitors can harm our business even if they are not successful in their own operations by taking away some customers or employees or by aggressive and costly advertising, promotional or hiring practices. We also compete with other restaurant chains and other retail businesses for quality site locations and management and hourly employees, and competitive pressures could affect both the availability and cost of those important resources. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely. We have had, and expect to continue to have, initiatives in various stages of testing, evaluation, and implementation, upon which we expect to relay to improve our results of operations and financial condition. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in general. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that can’t be duplicated in broader implementation. Testing and general implementation also can be affected by other risk factors described herein that reduce the results expected. Successful systemwide implementation relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution, and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. We are dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we could suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Moreover, we could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover and potential delays in 16 new restaurant openings or adverse customer reactions to inadequate customer service levels due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater recruitment and training expense. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are likely to be affected by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage or changes to the tip credit amount. The tip credit amount is the amount an employer is permitted to assume an employee receives in tips when the employer calculates the employee’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes. Proposals have been made, and continue to be made, at federal and state levels to increase minimum wage levels, including changes to the tip credit amount. An increase in the minimum wage may require an increase or create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. A shortage in the labor pool could also cause our restaurants to be required to operate with reduced staff, which could negatively impact our ability to provide adequate service levels to our customers. We may not be able to obtain and maintain licenses and permits necessary to operate our restaurants, and failure to comply with laws could adversely affect our operating results. The restaurant industry is subject to various federal, state and local government regulations, including those relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages. Such regulations are subject to change from time to time. The failure to obtain and maintain these licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal for cause at any time if governmental authorities determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Difficulties or failure to obtain the required licenses and approvals could delay or result in our decision to cancel the opening of new restaurants, which would adversely affect our business. We are subject to a number of risks relating to federal, state and local regulation of our business that may increase our costs and decrease our profit margins. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food. The development and operation of restaurants depend to a significant extent on the selection and acquisition of suitable sites, which are subject to zoning, land use, environmental, traffic and other regulations and requirements. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards and liquor licenses, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and applicable requirements concerning the minimum wage, overtime, family leave, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission, and disposal of hazardous materials. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. We also are subject to rules and regulations, including interpretation thereof, of the IRS and state and local tax authorities that could cause our effective income tax rate and the timing of our payments to be unfavorable and affect our results of operations and financial condition adversely. Additionally, a number of states restrict highway signage. Since many of our restaurants are located on the interstate highway system, our business is highly related to highway travel. Thus, signage restrictions or loss of existing signage could affect our visibility and ability to attract customers. We depend on key personnel for our success. We believe that our success is largely dependent on the abilities and experience of our senior management team. The loss of services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies, either of which could have a material adverse effect on us and our results of operations. 17 The price and availability of food, ingredients and utilities used by our restaurants or merchandise sold in our retail shop could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food, ingredients, utilities, retail merchandise, and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather and demand could adversely affect the availability and cost of our ingredients and products. We require fresh produce, dairy products and meat, and therefore are subject to the risk that shortages or interruptions in supply of these food products could develop. Our operating margins are subject to changes in the price and availability of food commodities. The effect of introduction of or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail products or food products could increase our costs and possibly impact the supply of those products. We are subject to the general risks of inflation. In addition, possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items caused by inclement weather or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the items we buy. Our operating margins are also affected by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas, whether as a result of inflation or otherwise, on which the locations depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to an adverse change in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately-priced product, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our guests sufficient to offset cost increases. Our heavy reliance on certain vendors and suppliers could adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our operations depends in part upon our ability to acquire specified food and retail products and supplies in sufficient quantities. In some cases, we may have only one supplier for a product or supply. A large part of our retail product is distributed from a single location. Our dependence on single source suppliers subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. If any of these vendors are unable to fulfill their obligations, or if we are unable to find replacement suppliers in the event of a supply disruption, we could encounter supply shortages and incur higher costs to secure adequate supplies, either of which would materially harm our business. Our current insurance may expose us to unexpected costs. Historically, our insurance coverage has reflected deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of terrorism and some natural disasters, including floods. If we incur such losses, our business could suffer. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation, general liability and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses, including expected increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Health concerns and government regulation relating to the consumption of beef or other food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively impact our results of operations. Many of the food items on our menu contain beef and chicken. The preferences of our customers toward beef and chicken could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally. In recent years there has been negative publicity concerning E. coli bacteria, hepatitis A, “mad cow” disease, “foot-and-mouth” disease, the bird flu, peanut and other food allergens, and other public health concerns affecting the food supply, including beef, chicken and pork. This negative publicity, as well as any other negative publicity concerning food products we serve, may adversely affect demand for our food and could result in a decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants or change in our mix of products sold as a result of these health concerns either in general or specific to our operations, could materially harm our business. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Regardless of whether the allegations or complaints are valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 If we fail to execute our growth strategy, which primarily depends on our ability to open new restaurants that are profitable, our business could suffer. Historically, one of the most significant means of achieving our growth objectives have been through opening new restaurants and operating those restaurants on a profitable basis. We expect this to continue to be the case in the future. One of our biggest challenges in executing our growth strategy is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for suitable restaurant sites and operating personnel in our target markets is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to find sufficient suitable locations, or negotiate suitable purchase or lease terms, for our planned expansion in any future period. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants, or achieving lower than expected sales in new restaurants, or drawing a greater than expected proportion of sales in new restaurants from existing restaurants, could materially adversely affect our growth strategy. Our ability to open new restaurants successfully will also depend on numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other items, the following: • our ability to hire, train and retain qualified operating personnel; • our ability to mitigate the effects of uncertain consumer confidence, higher costs for utilities, consumer debt payments, general or regional economic weakness, or weather on our sales and the discretionary income and personal expenditure activity of our customers; • our ability to control construction and development costs of new restaurants; • changes in local, state or federal laws and regulations that adversely affect our costs; • consumer acceptance of our restaurants in new markets; • road construction and other factors limiting access to the restaurant; • the cost and availability of capital to fund construction costs and pre-opening expenses; • our ability to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all; and • acts of God. Once opened, we anticipate that our new restaurants will generally take several months to reach budgeted or expected operating levels owing to start-up inefficiencies and sales patterns typically associated with new restaurants. We cannot assure you that any restaurant we open will be profitable or obtain operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our planned expansion will impose on management and on our existing infrastructure, nor that we will be able to hire or retain the necessary management and operating personnel. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our planned expansion. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to locate, hire, train and retain management and operating personnel. Some of our new restaurants will be located in areas where we have little or no meaningful experience. Those markets may have different competitive conditions, market conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns than our existing markets, which may cause our new restaurants to be less successful than restaurants in our existing markets. Some of our new restaurants will be located in areas where we have existing restaurants. Although we have experience in these markets, increasing the number of locations in these markets may cause us to over-saturate markets and temporarily or permanently divert customers and sales from our existing restaurants, thereby adversely affecting our overall profitability. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of 19 the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our services, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in the price of our securities. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: • increases and decreases in average weekly sales, restaurant and retail sales and restaurant profitability; • the rate at which we open new locations, the timing of new unit openings and the related high initial operating costs; • changes in consumer preferences and competitive conditions, including the effects of competitors’ operational, promotional or expansion activities; • fluctuations in commodity prices, product costs, utilities and energy costs, prevailing wage rates, insurance costs and other costs; • our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified hourly and management employees, and the costs associated with those activities; • the effects of uncertain consumer confidence, consumer debt payments, general or regional economic weakness, or weather on our sales and the discretionary income or personal expenditure activity of customers; • general national economic trends and local economic conditions, which could be affected by terrorist activity and government responses thereto, local strikes, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, earthquakes, fires or other natural disasters; • changes in advertising and promotional activities and expansion to new markets; • negative publicity relating to the consumption of beef, chicken or other products we serve; • unanticipated increases in infrastructure costs; • impairment of long-lived assets, and any loss on restaurant closures or impairments; • changes in interest rates; and • changes in accounting, tax, regulatory or other rules applicable to our business. Our quarterly operating results and restaurant and retail sales may fluctuate as a result of any of these or other factors. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our securities could decrease Obtaining some of our retail merchandise exposes us to risks associated with foreign imports. Our future operating results as they relate to the retail operations in our Cracker Barrel units depend on products that are or may be manufactured in a number of foreign countries. Because we depend on foreign sourcing for these products, our results of operations may be materially affected by: - fluctuating currency exchange rates; - foreign government regulations; 20 - foreign exchange control regulations; - import/export restrictions; - foreign economic instability; - political instability; - disruptions due to labor stoppages, strikes or slowdowns, or other disruptions, involving our vendors or the transportation and handling industries; - adverse exchange movement of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currency; and tariffs, trade barriers and other trade restrictions by the U.S. government on products or components shipped from foreign sources Individual restaurant locations are affected by local conditions that could change and affect the carrying value of those locations adversely. The success of our business depends on the success of individual locations, and the success of individual locations depends on stability of or improvements in operating condition at and around those locations. Changes in highway or roadway traffic patterns, concentrations of general retail or hotel activity, local population densities, increased competition, and local economic conditions are not within our control and can affect local operations adversely, including the carrying value of those locations. We can be affected adversely and unexpectedly by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Our financial reporting complies with GAAP, and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our results of operations and financial condition could be affected adversely, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. Identification of material weakness in internal control may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Those provisions provide for the identification of material weaknesses in internal control. If such a material weakness is identified, it could indicate a lack of controls adequate to generate accurate financial statements. We routinely assess our internal controls, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms. The development of our business may require significant additional capital in the future to fund our operations and growth strategy, among other activities. We have historically relied upon cash generated by our own operations and lease financing to fund our expansion. We currently maintain a revolving credit facility with a capacity of $250 million, none of which was drawn as of the end of fiscal 2006. We may also need to access the debt and equity capital markets. There can be no assurance, however, that these sources of financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor sentiment and our ability to incur additional debt in compliance with agreements governing our then-outstanding debt. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financings unattractive to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital, our growth could be impeded. 21 Our failure or inability to enforce our trademarks or other proprietary rights could adversely affect our competitive position or the value of our brand. We own certain common law trademark rights and a number of federal trademark and service mark registrations, including the CRACKER BARREL OLD COUNTRY STORE® and LOGAN’S ROADHOUSE® name and logo, and proprietary rights relating to our methods of operation and certain of our core menu offerings. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position, and, therefore, we devote resources to the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. The protective actions that we take, however, may not be enough to prevent unauthorized use or imitation by others, which could harm our image, brand or competitive position. If we commence litigation to enforce our rights, we will incur significant legal fees. We are not aware of any assertions that our trademarks or menu offerings infringe upon the proprietary rights of any third parties, but we cannot assure you that third parties will not claim infringement by us in the future. Any such claim, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming and distracting for executive management, result in costly litigation, cause changes to existing menu items or delays in introducing new menu items, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Provisions in our charter, Tennessee law and our shareholder rights plan may discourage potential acquirors of our company, which could adversely affect the value of our securities. Our charter documents contain provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of the Company. In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of Tennessee law that limit, in some cases, our ability to engage in certain business combinations with significant shareholders. Also, our shareholder rights plan may inhibit accumulations of substantial amounts of our common stock without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions, either alone, or in combination with each other, give our current directors and executive officers a substantial ability to influence the outcome of a proposed acquisition of the Company. These provisions would apply even if an acquisition or other significant corporate transaction was considered beneficial by some of our shareholders. If a change in control or change in management is delayed or prevented by these provisions, the market price of our securities could decline. Risks Particular to our Logan’s Operations So long as we own Logan’s, that business will be subject to the following additional risks and uncertainties: We have developed and tested and are now implementing an enhanced restaurant prototype for future expansion, but the prototype has yet to be proven from either an investment or operating standpoint. We have developed and tested and are now implementing an enhanced restaurant prototype for future expansion of Logan’s. This prototype incorporates changes in size, materials, layout, operational design and aesthetic design elements from our previous restaurant design, and there is no guarantee that this or any future prototypes will be successful. We may need to reduce our rate of development of this prototype or modify our plans by continuing to build our previous restaurant design. An initial version of the enhanced prototype was launched in August 2005. We have made numerous design changes and have identified additional further changes to this prototype as a result of what we have learned from the initial launch and are currently building a second restaurant under this prototype, but we have not yet operated a restaurant under the revised version of the enhanced prototype. The introduction of any new prototypes could result in different average weekly sales and returns on invested capital than we have experienced with our previous restaurant design. Additionally, any changes to our restaurant design and layout could negatively affect the Logan’s brand image. Failure to comply with alcoholic beverage or food control regulations could lead to the loss of our liquor and food service licenses and, thereby, harm our business. In 2006, approximately 9% of our total sales from Logan’s company-owned restaurants were attributable to the sale of alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverage control regulations require each of our restaurants to apply to a state authority and, in certain locations, county or municipal authorities for a license or permit to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises and to provide service for extended hours and on Sundays. Alcoholic beverage control regulations relate to numerous aspects of daily operations of our restaurants, including minimum age of patrons and employees, hours of operation, advertising, trade practices, wholesale purchasing, other relationships with alcohol manufacturers, wholesalers and distributors, inventory control, and handling, storage and dispensing of alcoholic 22 beverages. In the past, we and our franchisees have been subject to fines for violations of alcoholic beverage control regulations. Any future failure of a restaurant to comply with these regulations and obtain or retain liquor licenses could adversely affect the restaurant’s alcohol and food sales and our overall results of operations. “Dram shop” litigation may hurt us. In addition to the general risk of litigation described above, Logan’s also is subject to state and local “dram shop” statutes. These statutes generally allow a person injured by an intoxicated person to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In the past, after allegedly consuming alcoholic beverages at our restaurants, individuals have been killed or injured or have killed or injured third parties. Because a plaintiff may seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance, this type of action could have an adverse impact on our or our franchisee’s financial condition and results of operations. A judgment in such an action significantly in excess of our insurance coverage, or the insurance coverage of one of our franchisees, for any claims could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Further, adverse publicity resulting from any such allegations may materially adversely affect us, our franchisees and our restaurants taken as a whole. If we fail to comply with federal and state statutes, regulations and rules governing our offer and sale of franchises and our relationship with our franchisees, we may be subject to franchisee-initiated litigation and governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. We are subject to the Federal Trade Commission and to various state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Additionally, many state laws regulate various aspects of the franchise relationship, including the following: • the nature, timing and sufficiency of disclosures to franchisees upon the initiation of the franchisor-potential franchisee relationship; • our conduct during the franchisor-franchisee relationship; and • renewals and terminations of franchises. Any past or future failures by us to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in franchisee-initiated lawsuits, a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, civil and administrative penalties or other fines, or require us to make offers of rescission, disgorgement or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. We could also face lawsuits by our franchisees based upon alleged violations of these laws. In the case of willful violations, criminal sanctions could be brought against us. Our franchisees could take actions that could be harmful to our business. Our franchisees are contractually obligated to operate their restaurants in accordance with Logan’s Roadhouse standards and all applicable laws. Although we attempt to properly train and support franchisees, franchisees are independent third parties that we do not control, and the franchisees own, operate and oversee the daily operations of their restaurants. As a result, the ultimate success and quality of any franchised restaurant rests with the franchisee. If franchisees do not successfully operate restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards, the Logan’s Roadhouse image and reputation could be harmed, which in turn could adversely affect our business and operating results. Further, a franchisee’s inability to remain financially viable could result in its failure to pay various franchise-related fees owed to us. Finally, regardless of the actual validity of such a claim, we may be named as a party in an action relating to, and/or be held liable for, the conduct of our franchisees if it is shown that we exercise a sufficient level of control over a particular franchisee’s operation. Our development agreements with our franchisees limit our ability to expand in certain markets. During the term of our current area development agreement with our largest franchisee, CMAC, Inc. (“CMAC”), which expires on March 31, 2007, we are prohibited from operating any company-owned restaurant, or granting a license to any person to operate a restaurant, in North Carolina, South Carolina and Augusta, Georgia. We are also prohibited from operating any company-owned restaurant, or granting a license to any person to operate a restaurant in Northern California and Reno, Nevada pursuant to our area development agreement with L.G. Enterprises, LLC (“L.G. Enterprises”), until December 31, 2008. If these markets experience faster than expected growth in the restaurant industry, and if our franchisees are unable to expand to keep pace with such market growth, our competitive position in these markets could be temporarily or permanently harmed. 23 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 