ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves a degree of risk. Persons buying our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operation or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In any such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company and are not intended to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. General economic and business conditions as well as those specific to the restaurant or retail industries that are largely out of our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business results depend on a number of industry-specific and general economic factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include consumer income, interest rates, inflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. The full-service dining sector of the restaurant industry and the retail industry are affected by changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, seasonal fluctuation of sales volumes, consumer preferences, including changes in consumer tastes and dietary habits and the level of consumer acceptance of our restaurant concept and retail merchandise, and consumer spending patterns. Discretionary consumer spending, which is critical to our success, is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. Accordingly, we may experience declines in sales during economic downturns or during periods of uncertainty. In addition, recent increases in fuel and other energy prices as well as consumer uncertainty that has accompanied the recent home mortgage and credit “crisis” and general weakness in housing markets has resulted in decreased discretionary consumer spending. A continuing decline in consumer confidence or the amount of discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations, business and financial condition. We also cannot predict the effects of actual or threatened armed conflicts or terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism, military action against any foreign state or group located in a foreign state or heightened security requirements on the economy or consumer confidence in the United States. Any of these events could also affect consumer spending patterns or result in increased costs for us due to security measures. Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our customers could increase our costs, reduce traffic in some or all of our locations or impose practical limits on pricing, any of which could lower our profit margins and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. The casual dining sector of the restaurant industry is intensely competitive, and we face many well-established competitors. We compete within each market with national and regional restaurant chains and locally-owned restaurants. Competition from other regional or national restaurant chains typically represents the more important competitive influence, principally because of their significant marketing and financial resources. However, we also face growing competition as a result of the trend toward convergence in grocery, deli and restaurant services, particularly in the supermarket industry. Moreover, our competitors can harm our business even if they are not successful in their own operations by taking away customers or employees through aggressive and costly advertising, promotions or hiring practices. We compete primarily on the quality, variety and value perception of menu and retail items. The number and location of restaurants, type of concept, quality and efficiency of service, attractiveness of facilities and effectiveness of advertising and marketing programs also are important factors. We anticipate that intense competition will continue with respect to all of these factors. We also compete with other restaurant chains and other retail businesses for quality site locations and management and hourly employees, and competitive pressures could affect both the availability and cost of these important resources. If we are unable to continue to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. 11 The price and availability of food, ingredients, merchandise and utilities used by our restaurants or merchandise sold in our retail shop could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Although we are subject to the general risks of inflation, our operating profit margins and results of operations depend significantly on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in the price and availability of food and other commodities, ingredients, utilities, retail merchandise and other related costs over which we may have little control. Fluctuations in economic conditions, weather, demand and other factors can adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the ingredients and products that we buy. Furthermore, many of the products that we use and their costs are interrelated. For example, the recent focus on ethanol as a fuel, as well as the emergence of China as a major consumer of food products, has placed tremendous demands (with attendant supply and price pressures) for corn, wheat and dairy products, which in turn has increased feed costs for poultry and livestock. The effect of, introduction of, or changes to tariffs or exchange rates on imported retail products or food products could increase our costs and possibly affect the supply of those products. Our operating margins are also affected, whether as a result of general inflation or otherwise, by fluctuations in the price of utilities such as natural gas and electricity, on which our locations depend for much of their energy supply. Our inability to anticipate and respond effectively to one or more adverse changes in any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, because we provide a moderately-priced product, we may not seek to or be able to pass along price increases to our customers sufficient to completely offset cost increases. We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while also controlling labor costs. Our performance is dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of qualified restaurant employees. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. Many staff members are in entry-level or part-time positions, typically with high rates of turnover. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we could suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Management turnover as well as general shortages in the labor pool can cause our restaurants to be operated with reduced staff, which could negatively affect our ability to provide appropriate service levels to our customers. Competition for qualified employees exerts upward pressure on wages paid to attract such personnel, resulting in higher labor costs, together with greater recruiting and training expenses. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, minimum wage legislation, health care legislation and changing demographics. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages are affected by increases in the federal or state minimum wage or changes to tip credits. Tip credits are the amounts an employer is permitted to assume an employee receives in tips when the employer calculates the employee’s hourly wage for minimum wage compliance purposes. Increases in minimum wage levels and changes to the tip credit have been made and continue to be proposed at both federal and state levels. As minimum wage rates increase, we may need to increase not only the wages of our minimum wage employees but also the wages paid to employees at wage rates that are above minimum wage. If competitive pressures or other factors prevent us from offsetting increased labor costs by increases in prices, our profitability may decline. Our distribution risks are heightened because of our single distribution facility; in addition, our reliance on certain significant vendors, particularly for foreign-sourced products, subjects us to numerous risks, including possible interruptions in supply, which could adversely affect our business. The majority of our retail inventory is shipped into, stored at and shipped out of a single warehouse located in Lebanon, TN. All of the decorative fixtures used in our stores are shipped into, stored at and shipped out of a single warehouse located in Lebanon, TN. A natural disaster affecting either of these warehouses could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to maintain consistent quality throughout our operations depends in part upon our ability to acquire specified food and retail products and supplies in sufficient quantities. Partly because of our size, finding qualified vendors and accessing food, retail products and supplies in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge that typically is more difficult with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. In some cases, we may have only one supplier for a product or supply. Our dependence on single source suppliers subjects us to the possible risks of shortages, interruptions and price fluctuations. If any of these vendors are unable to fulfill their obligations, or if we are unable to find replacement suppliers in the event of a supply disruption, we could encounter supply shortages and/or incur higher costs to secure adequate supplies, either of which could materially harm our business. 12 Additionally, we use a number of products that are or may be manufactured in a number of foreign countries. In addition to the risk presented by the possible long lead times to source these products, our results of operations may be materially affected by risks such as: · fluctuating currency exchange rates; · foreign government regulations; · foreign currency exchange control regulations; · import/export restrictions; · foreign political and economic instability; · disruptions due to labor stoppages, strikes or slowdowns, or other disruptions, involving our vendors or the transportation and handling industries; and · tariffs, trade barriers and other trade restrictions by the U.S. government on products or components shipped from foreign sources. Possible shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our restaurants caused by inclement weather, natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, the inability of our vendors to obtain credit in a tightened credit market or other conditions beyond our control could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of the items we buy and the operations of our restaurants. Our inability to effectively manage supply chain risk could increase our costs and limit the availability of products that are critical to our restaurant operations. If we temporarily close a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reduction in revenue during the time affected by the shortage or thereafter as a result of our customers changing their dining habits. Our plans depend significantly on initiatives designed to improve the efficiencies, costs and effectiveness of our operations, and failure to achieve or sustain these plans could affect our performance adversely. We have had, and expect to continue to have, initiatives in various stages of testing, evaluation and implementation, upon which we expect to rely to improve our results of operations and financial condition. These initiatives are inherently risky and uncertain, even when tested successfully, in their application to our business in general. It is possible that successful testing can result partially from resources and attention that cannot be duplicated in broader implementation. Testing and general implementation also can be affected by other risk factors described herein that reduce the results expected. Successful systemwide implementation relies on consistency of training, stability of workforce, ease of execution and the absence of offsetting factors that can influence results adversely. Failure to achieve successful implementation of our initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. We incurred substantial indebtedness to finance our 2006 strategic initiatives, which may decrease our flexibility and increase our borrowing costs. Our consolidated indebtedness following our 2006 strategic initiatives is substantially greater than our indebtedness prior to those undertakings. The increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio of our company, as compared to that which existed on a historical basis, will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and increasing borrowing costs. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: · require a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness and reduce our ability to use our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements or to pay dividends; and 13 · limit our flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions as compared to our competitors. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our credit agreement. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. A default under our credit agreement may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. For example, the lenders’ ongoing obligation to extend credit under the revolving credit portion of the credit agreement is dependent upon our compliance with these covenants and restrictions. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Our advertising is heavily dependent on billboards, which are highly regulated; a shift away from billboard advertising poses a risk of increased advertising and marketing costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, we have relied upon billboards as our principal method of advertising. A number of states in which we operate restrict highway signage and billboards. Because many of our restaurants are located on the interstate highway system, our business is highly related to highway travel. Thus, signage or billboard restrictions or loss of existing signage or billboards could affect our visibility and ability to attract customers. Additionally, as we begin to build stores away from our traditional interstate locations, we may be required to increasingly utilize what others might consider more traditional methods of advertising, such as radio, television, direct mail and newspaper. While we have used these types of advertising from time to time, their effects upon our revenues and, in turn, our profits, are uncertain. Additionally, if our competitors increased their spending on advertising and promotions, we could be forced to substantially increase our advertising, media or marketing expenses. If we did so or if our current advertising and promotion programs become less effective, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is somewhat seasonal and also can be affected by extreme weather conditions and natural disasters. Historically, our highest sales and profits have occurred during the summer. Winter, excluding the Christmas holidays, has historically been the period of lowest sales and profits although retail revenues historically have been seasonally higher between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Therefore, the results of operations for any quarter or period of less than one year cannot be considered indicative of the operating results for a full fiscal year. Additionally, extreme weather conditions in the areas where our stores are located can adversely affect our business. For example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms, floods or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and can disrupt deliveries of food and supplies to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. Our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. For example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. Reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect our business. In addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of our stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting our business operations. If we fail to execute our business strategy, which primarily depends on our ability to find new restaurant locations and open new restaurants that are profitable, our business could suffer. Historically, one of the most significant means of achieving our growth objectives has been opening and operating new and profitable restaurants. This strategy involves numerous risks, and we may not be able to achieve our growth objectives – that is we may not be able to open all of our planned new restaurants and the new restaurants that we open may not be profitable or as profitable as our existing restaurants. New restaurants typically experience an adjustment period before sales levels and operating margins normalize, and even sales 14 at successful newly-opened restaurants generally do not make a significant contribution to profitability in their initial months of operation. The opening of new restaurants can also have an adverse effect on sales levels at existing restaurants. One of our biggest risks in executing our business strategy is locating and securing an adequate supply of suitable new restaurant sites. Competition for suitable restaurant sites and operating personnel in our target markets is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to find sufficient suitable locations, or negotiate suitable purchase or lease terms, for our planned expansion in any future period. Delays or failures in opening new restaurants, or achieving lower than expected sales in new restaurants, or drawing a greater than expected proportion of sales in new restaurants from existing restaurants, could materially adversely affect our business strategy. Our ability to open new restaurants successfully will also depend on numerous other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among other items discussed in other risk factors, the following: · our ability to control construction and development costs of new restaurants; · our ability to manage the local, state or other regulatory, zoning and licensing processes in a timely manner; · our ability to appropriately train employees and staff the restaurants; · consumer acceptance of our restaurants in new markets; · our ability to manage construction delays related to the opening of any facility; and · our ability to secure required governmental approvals and permits in a timely manner, or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to respond on a timely basis to all of the changing demands that our unit expansion will impose on management and on our existing infrastructure, nor that we will be able to hire or retain the necessary management and operating personnel. Our existing restaurant management systems, financial and management controls and information systems may not be adequate to support our planned expansion. Our ability to manage our growth effectively will require us to continue to enhance these systems, procedures and controls and to locate, hire, train and retain management and operating personnel. Individual restaurant locations are affected by local conditions that could change and affect the carrying value of those locations adversely. The success of our business depends on the success of individual locations and the success of individual locations depends on stability of or improvements in operating conditions at and around those locations. Our revenues and expenses can be affected significantly by the number and timing of the opening of new restaurants and the closing, relocating and remodeling of existing restaurants. We incur substantial pre-opening expenses each time we open a new restaurant and other expenses when we close, relocate or remodel existing restaurants. The expenses of opening, closing, relocating or remodeling any of our restaurants may be higher than anticipated. An increase in such expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Also, as demographic and economic patterns (e.g., highway or roadway traffic patterns, concentrations of general retail or hotel activity, local population densities or increased competition) change, current locations may not continue to be attractive or profitable. Possible declines in neighborhoods where our restaurants are located or adverse economic conditions in areas surrounding those neighborhoods could result in reduced revenues in those locations. The occurrence of one or more of these events could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations as well as the carrying value of our individual locations. Health concerns and government regulation relating to the consumption of food products could affect consumer preferences and could negatively affect our results of operations. Many of the food items on our menu contain beef and chicken. The preferences of our customers toward beef and chicken could be affected by health concerns about the consumption of beef or chicken or negative publicity concerning food quality, illness and injury generally. In recent years there has been negative publicity concerning E. coli bacteria, hepatitis A, “mad cow” disease, “foot-and-mouth” disease, the bird/avian flu, peanut and other food allergens, and other public health concerns affecting the food supply, including beef, chicken and pork. In addition, if a regional or global health pandemic occurs, depending upon its location, duration and severity, our business could be severely affected. A health pandemic is a disease that spreads 15 rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. If that occurs, customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. A regional or global health pandemic might also adversely affect our business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in our stores. In addition, government regulations or the likelihood of government regulation could increase the costs of obtaining or preparing food products. A decrease in guest traffic to our restaurants, a change in our mix of products sold or an increase in costs as a result of these health concerns either in general or specific to our operations, could result in a decrease in sales or higher costs to our restaurants that would materially harm our business. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, consumers, suppliers, shareholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our services, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable publicity could harm our business. Multi-unit restaurant businesses such as ours can be adversely affected by publicity resulting from complaints or litigation alleging poor food quality, food-borne illness, personal injury, adverse health effects (including obesity) or other concerns stemming from one or a limited number of restaurants. Even when the allegations or complaints are not valid, unfavorable publicity relating to a limited number of our restaurants, or only to a single restaurant, could adversely affect public perception of the entire brand. Adverse publicity and its effect on overall consumer perceptions of food safety could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel could jeopardize our success. Our future growth and success depends substantially on the contributions and abilities of key executives and other employees and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees to work in and manage our restaurants. We must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. A loss of key employees or a significant shortage of high quality restaurant employees could jeopardize our ability to meet our business goals. We are subject to a number of risks relating to federal, state and local regulation of our business that may increase our costs and decrease our profit margins. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those relating to building and zoning requirements and those relating to the preparation and sale of food as well as certain retail products. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by state and local authorities relating to health, sanitation, safety and fire standards, federal and state laws governing our relationships with employees (including the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986 and applicable requirements concerning minimum wage, overtime, family leave, medical privacy, tip credits, working conditions, safety standards and immigration status), federal and state laws which prohibit discrimination and other laws regulating the design and operation of facilities, such as the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials. We also face risks from new and changing laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety and menu labeling. Compliance with these laws and regulations can be costly and can increase our exposure to litigation or governmental investigations or proceedings. The impact of current laws and regulations, the effect of future changes in laws or regulations that impose additional requirements and the consequences of litigation relating to current or future laws and regulations could increase our compliance and other costs of doing business and therefore have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Failure to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements of federal, state and local authorities could result in, among other things, revocation of 16 required licenses, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Also, the failure to obtain and maintain required licenses, permits and approvals could adversely affect our operating results. Typically, licenses must be renewed annually and may be revoked, suspended or denied renewal for cause at any time if governmental authorities determine that our conduct violates applicable regulations. Our current insurance may expose us to unexpected costs. Historically, our insurance coverage has reflected deductibles, self-insured retentions, limits of liability and similar provisions that we believe prudent based on the dispersion of our operations. However, there are types of losses we may incur against which we cannot be insured or which we believe are not economically reasonable to insure, such as losses due to acts of terrorism and some natural disasters, including floods. If we incur such losses, our business could suffer. In addition, we self-insure a significant portion of expected losses under our workers’ compensation, general liability and group health insurance programs. Unanticipated changes in the actuarial assumptions and management estimates underlying our reserves for these losses, including expected increases in medical and indemnity costs, could result in materially different amounts of expense than expected under these programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A material disruption in our information technology and telecommunication systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. We rely extensively on our information technology and telecommunication systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business and our supply chain. Our information technology and telecommunication systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer, network and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees. If our information technology and telecommunication systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we could suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our information technology and telecommunication systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Compliance with these requirements may result in cost increases due to necessary systems changes and the development of new administrative processes. In addition, customers and employees have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a significant breach of customer, employee or company data, our reputation could be damaged and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. Our reported results can be affected adversely and unexpectedly by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles or financial reporting requirements. Our financial reporting complies with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), and GAAP is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting (including the adoption of international reporting standards in the United States), our reported results of operations and financial condition could be affected substantially, including requirements to restate historical financial reporting. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and financial results. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with GAAP. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that we would prevent or detect a misstatement of our financial statements or fraud. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud. The identification of a material weakness could indicate a lack of controls adequate to generate accurate financial statements that, in turn, could cause a loss of investor confidence and decline in the market price of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate 17 any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. Our annual and quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts, rating agencies and investors due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, resulting either in volatility or a decline in the price of our securities. Our business is not static – it changes periodically as a result of many factors, including those discussed above and: · increases and decreases in average weekly sales, restaurant and retail sales and restaurant profitability; · the rate at which we open new locations, the timing of new unit openings and the related high initial operating costs; · changes in advertising and promotional activities and expansion to new markets; and · impairment of long-lived assets and any loss on restaurant closures or impairments. Our quarterly operating results and restaurant and retail sales may fluctuate as a result of any of these or other factors. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and restaurant sales for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts, rating agencies and investors. In that event, the price of our securities could fluctuate dramatically over time or could decrease generally. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends and meet our debt service obligations. We are a holding company and a large portion of our assets is the capital stock of our subsidiaries. All of our subsidiaries are guarantors of our obligations under our credit facility and their stock is pledged as collateral to the lenders under that facility. As a holding company, we conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to pay dividends and service our debt obligations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these entities to us. The ability of these entities to pay dividends or make other loans, advances or payments to us will depend upon their operating results and will be subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing our debt. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to pay dividends and make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control and are described elsewhere. We cannot assure you that the cash flow and earnings of our operating subsidiaries and the amount that they are able to distribute to us as dividends or otherwise will be adequate for us to pay dividends or service our debt obligations. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any such alternative refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all, or that additional financing would be permitted under the terms of our credit agreement. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to pay dividends, to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to pay dividends or satisfy our other financial obligations. 18 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 