Item 1A. Risk Factors (Continued) The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings. In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Berkshire believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Berkshire will not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, Berkshire’s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long term. Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($48 billion at December 31, 2005) so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings. Insurance subsidiaries’ investments are unusually concentrated. Compared to other insurers, Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries keep an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in Berkshire’s shareholders’ equity, and may precipitate recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s book value per share. Berkshire is dependent for its investment and capital allocation decisions on a few key people. Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire’s businesses by Warren E. Buffett, chairman of the board of directors and CEO, age 75, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, vice chairman of the board of directors, age 82. If for any reason the services of Berkshire’s key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to Berkshire, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company. However, Berkshire’s Board of Directors has identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire’s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Management believes that the Board’s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running Berkshire’s numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk. The past growth rate in Berkshire stock is not an indication of future results. In the years since Berkshire’s present management acquired control of Berkshire, its book value per share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of Berkshire’s capital base (shareholders’ equity of approximately $91.5 billion as of December 31, 2005), Berkshire’s book value per share cannot increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate. Competition Each of Berkshire’s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic operators and international operators. While Berkshire’s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving sustainable growth over the long-term through developing and strengthening competitive advantages, many factors, including market and technology changes, may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages. Berkshire’s class B common stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than its class A common stock. Each share of class A common stock is convertible into thirty shares of class B common stock, but shares of class B common stock are not convertible into shares of class A common stock or any other security. Although a share of class B common stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of class A common stock, it is unlikely that a share of class B common stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of class A common stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of class A common stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of class B common stock are entitled to only one two-hundredth of a vote for each class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire stockholders. Governmental Investigations. Certain of Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries, particularly General Re Corporation and some of its subsidiaries, are subject to ongoing investigations by U.S. federal and state governmental authorities, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, the New York State Attorney General, the Office of the Connecticut Attorney General and various state insurance departments, and by certain foreign governmental authorities, relating to non-traditional products and in some cases to transactions with other insurers. These investigations are described under Item 3 – Legal Proceedings. Berkshire cannot at this time predict the outcomes of these investigations, is unable to estimate a range of possible loss, and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire’s business or results of operations for at least the quarterly period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 