Item 1A RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business We have implemented a substantial restructuring of our operations and have revised our strategic plan, and we may fail to successfully execute this plan. The formation of Perseid Therapeutics LLC, or Perseid, the consummation of our joint venture transaction with Astellas Pharma Inc., or Astellas, in September 2009 and the recent changes in our management team have largely completed a multi-year strategic process to restructure our operations and position our programs and assets in collaborations and other arrangements that are primarily supported by external parties. However, we plan to continue to evaluate options regarding the management of our assets and arrangements in an effort to maximize the return to our stockholders over the next several years. These options could include a sale or disposition of one or more corporate assets, the acquisition of a business or asset, a strategic business combination, or other transactions. While we continue to be actively engaged in this process, there can be no assurance that any particular strategic option or outcome will be pursued, whether any transaction, or series of transactions required to sell or acquire individual assets, will occur, or whether we will be able to successfully consummate any such transaction on a timely basis, on terms acceptable to us or at all. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in implementing an option that is chosen by our board of directors, or we may implement an option that yields unexpected results. The process of continuing to review, and potentially executing, strategic options may be very costly and time-consuming and may distract our management and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, there can be no assurances that any particular business arrangement or transaction, or series of transactions, will be consummated or lead to increased stockholder value. To the extent that we elect to pursue a transaction, or series of transactions, that includes a sale of one or more corporate assets, our ability to sell any assets may be limited by many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions or the attributes of the particular asset. We cannot predict whether we would be able to sell any particular asset on favorable terms and conditions, if at all, or the length of time needed to sell any asset. For example, the shares that we own of Codexis, Inc. common and preferred stock represent shares of a private company that are not freely tradeable and we cannot predict the likelihood or length of time for Codexis to achieve a liquidity event, if any, for its shares, such as an initial public offering or a sale of the company. We also have a number of ancillary technologies and similar assets that may not be accorded any additional value in an asset sale or other strategic transaction. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that we or our stockholders will realize any value from all of our assets or any particular asset. In addition, although we intend to structure 15 Table of Contents any potential transaction so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both us and our stockholders, any particular transaction that we pursue could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes that may have an adverse affect on us and our stockholders. Furthermore, we have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant costs related to the execution of our revised strategic plan, such as legal and accounting fees and expenses and other related charges. We may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with this strategic plan. A considerable portion of the costs related to any strategic transaction, such as legal and accounting fees, will be incurred regardless of whether any transaction is completed. These expenses will decrease the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. The operations of Perseid and the joint venture arrangement with Astellas involve substantially all of our protein pharmaceutical programs and related assets and research and development personnel. If Astellas does not exercise its option to purchase our interests in Perseid, our business may be substantially harmed. We operate substantially all of our research and development operations through Perseid. Under our joint venture arrangement with Astellas, Astellas has an option to acquire all of our ownership interest in Perseid at specified exercise prices that increase each quarter from the current option price of $57.0 million (through March 18, 2010) to $123.0 million over the term of the option, which expires on September 18, 2012 (the third anniversary of the closing). If Astellas elects not to exercise this option, Perseid may be unable to execute its business plan or continue its operations, and we may not realize any value from these operations. In addition, any decision by Astellas regarding the exercise of its option to purchase our ownership interests in Perseid may be largely dependent on the successful development of the MAXY-4 program, as well as the successful preclinical development of one or more early stage programs by Perseid, which is subject to all of the risks discussed below inherent in drug development, such as potential difficulties or delays in the development, testing, regulatory approvals, progression or production of drug compounds, the failure to develop products suitable for commercialization, the delay or suspension of predicted development and commercial timelines for any potential products, the failure to protect intellectual property rights, the failure to identify and develop new potential products, and the risk that any compounds developed may have adverse side effects or inadequate therapeutic efficacy, as well as other economic, business, competitive, regulatory factors and/or changing research and business priorities affecting Astellas. In particular, the research and business priorities of Astellas may change based on the commercial success or failure of competing products, such as Orencia® and belatacept in the case of MAXY-4, mergers, acquisitions or reorganizations involving Astellas or other factors outside of Perseid’s control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Perseid will be successful or that Astellas will exercise its buy-out option even if Perseid is successful. Furthermore, macroeconomic or industry-wide conditions may improve, or the business contributed to Perseid may be more successful than expected when we negotiated the transactions with Astellas, each of which may make the business and related pharmaceutical assets that we have contributed to Perseid more valuable than anticipated. Astellas, as a holder of Perseid’s preferred units, will have the right to veto certain alternative transactions in which we might realize value for our investment in Perseid, including mergers and acquisitions and asset sales. The joint venture arrangements also place substantial restrictions on our ability to license the intellectual property rights that we have contributed to Perseid to parties other than Astellas. Also, if Astellas elects not to exercise this option, we may be required to fund the operations of Perseid for the foreseeable future and may have inadequate resources to do so. This could create uncertainty for our employees and the employees of Perseid and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our senior management, and to hire new talent necessary to maintain our ongoing operations and the operations of Perseid, or to execute our business plan or the business plan of Perseid, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents Our revenues and the operations of Perseid are substantially dependent upon funding provided by Astellas under the joint venture arrangement. Perseid and Astellas are parties to two collaboration agreements; one for the co-development and commercialization of the MAXY-4 product candidates and one for the discovery, research and preclinical development of certain protein therapeutics other than MAXY-4. Except for the $10.0 million invested in Perseid by each of Astellas and us, Perseid’s operations are expected to be funded almost entirely by Astellas through these two agreements (including through the potential receipt by Perseid of various milestone payments under these agreements). The funding of Perseid’s ongoing operations is highly dependent on the timing of reimbursements and potential milestone payments from Astellas under these agreements and a number of factors could leave Perseid with insufficient capital to operate its business. For example, development costs for the MAXY-4 program, which are shared by Perseid, may increase unexpectedly or Perseid may fail to achieve milestones under either agreement. More importantly, Astellas may make changes in the development plan for MAXY-4 or another product that significantly delays the achievement of related milestones. Any significant delays in the reimbursement of expenses or the payment of milestone amounts, if any, by Astellas could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if Astellas does not otherwise perform its obligations under these arrangements as expected or breaches or otherwise fails to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner, Perseid’s operations and our business would be severely harmed. In addition to revenues we recognize through Perseid’s collaboration agreements with Astellas, we have a license agreement with Codexis that we expect to generate revenue for the remainder of 2010, and we expect that a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future will result from these sources. If these agreements are materially amended, terminated, or we sell any such asset, and we are unable to enter into new agreements, our revenues, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We may implement one or more distributions to our stockholders of a portion of our cash resources, which may restrict our funds available for other actions and negatively affect the market price of our securities. In December 2009, we completed the repurchase of approximately 18.5% of our outstanding common stock in a modified “Dutch auction” tender offer for a total cost of approximately $39.2 million and, in March 2010, we repurchased and additional 1,433,361 shares of our common stock in a private transaction for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $8.0 million. However, given that we continue to have large cash reserves and a reduced ongoing financial commitment to the pharmaceutical business transferred to Perseid, our board of directors may consider and evaluate additional distributions to our stockholders of a portion of our cash resources in excess of our current and longer term operational requirements. Such distributions may be accomplished through cash dividends, stock repurchases or other mechanisms and may be fully or partially taxable depending on the circumstances of such distribution. Any such distribution may not have the effects anticipated by our board of directors and may instead harm the market price and liquidity of our securities. The full implementation of any additional distribution could use a significant portion of our remaining cash reserves, and this use of cash could limit our future flexibility to operate our business, invest in our existing assets, complete acquisitions of businesses or technologies, or pursue other transactions. For example if Astellas does not exercise its option to purchase our interests in Perseid, or if Codexis fails to consummate an initial public offering or other liquidity event, we may not have sufficient cash resources to maintain the operations of Perseid or adequately protect our investment in Codexis. In addition, the implementation of certain distribution mechanisms, such as stock repurchases, could also result in an increase in the percentage of common stock owned by our existing stockholders, and such increase may trigger disclosure or other regulatory requirements for our larger stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may liquidate a portion of their holdings, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our securities. Furthermore, repurchases of stock may affect the trading of our common stock to the extent we fail to satisfy continued-listing requirements of the exchange on which our stock trades, including those based on numbers of holders or public float of our common stock. Any stock repurchases would also reduce the number of 17 Table of Contents shares of our common stock in the market, which may impact the continuation of an active trading market in our stock, causing a negative impact on the market price of our stock. If we do not retain key employees, our ability to maintain our ongoing operations or execute a potential strategic option could be impaired. To be successful and achieve our objectives under our revised corporate strategy, we must retain qualified scientific and management personnel. The recent reduction of our workforce and the continued review of our strategic options may create uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our senior management, and to hire new talent necessary to maintain our ongoing operations, including the operations of Perseid, or to execute additional potential strategic options, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a result of management changes implemented in connection with the joint venture arrangement with Astellas, we currently have only two executive officers, one responsible for the operations of Maxygen and one responsible for the operations of Perseid, and our failure to retain or replace either of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, even if we retain key personnel, our recent restructuring and the revision of our corporate strategy could place significant strain on our resources and our ability to maintain our ongoing operations. Our restructuring plan may also require us to rely more heavily on temporary or part-time employees, third party contractors and consultants to assist with managing our operations. Accordingly, we may fail to maintain our ongoing operations or execute our strategic plan if we are unable to manage such changes effectively. If we engage in any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations. As part of our revised strategic plan, we may acquire additional businesses, assets, technologies, or products in the future if appropriate opportunities become available. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could: • use a significant portion of our cash resources to fund and manage the acquisitions; • issue additional equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders; • incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or • assume significant liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective collaborators, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. We do not have extensive experience in managing the integration process, and we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. The integration or management process could divert management time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale and cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business. Acquisitions may also require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration or management efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents In addition, any acquisition of a business, asset, technology or product could require us to use significantly more cash reserves than initially expected or in excess of the cash reserves actually required for our current and longer term operational requirements, and this use of cash could limit our future flexibility to operate our business, invest in our existing assets, complete acquisitions of businesses or technologies, or pursue other transactions. The development of our product candidates, which is based on modifications to natural human proteins, may be subject to substantial delays, increased development costs, reduced market potential for any resulting product or the termination of the affected development program, which could adversely affect our business. We design our product candidates to confer what we believe will be improved biological properties as compared to one or more currently marketed products. As a result, our product candidates differ from currently marketed drugs in ways that we expect will be beneficial. However, the impact of the modifications that we make in our product candidates may not be fully apparent in preclinical testing and may only be discovered in clinical testing. Such altered properties may render a product candidate unsuitable or less beneficial than expected for one or more diseases or medical conditions of possible interest or make the product candidate unsuitable for further development. For example, our products may be found to be more immunogenic than the corresponding natural human proteins or demonstrate undesirable pharmokinetic or pharmodynamic properties. For a particular product candidate, this may lead to the redirection of the development strategy which could result in substantial delays, increased development costs, decreased likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, and reduced market potential for any resulting product. This also could result in the termination of the development of the affected product candidate. In either case, such results could adversely affect our business. In addition, we or a collaborator may determine that certain preclinical or clinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient therapeutic or commercial potential to warrant further advancement for a particular indication or all indications, and may elect to terminate a program for such indications or product candidates at any time. Our assessment of the commercial potential for a product may change significantly from the time when we invest in discovery and development to the time when the product either reaches the market or reaches clinical development stages that require investment at risk. Commercial potential can change due to many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, the qualitative and quantitative properties of medical reimbursement schemes at the time, the legal status for sale of biologic generics (i.e. bioequivalent protein drugs, generic biologicals and biogenerics), and the financial status of potential partner companies. As commercial potential decreases so the ability or interest of other parties to share the costs of further development of our products may decrease, thus precluding advancement of our products. Furthermore, we may conclude that a product candidate is not differentiated in a meaningful way from existing products, or that the costs of seeking to establish that a product candidate is differentiated would be prohibitive, or that the market size for a differentiated product with the attributes of a particular product candidate does not justify the expense and risk of further development. If we terminate a preclinical or clinical program in which we have invested significant resources, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. In particular, any failure or delay in the development of the MAXY-4 product candidates in preclinical or clinical development could substantially decrease the likelihood that Astellas would exercise its option to purchase our interests in Perseid. Any such failure or delay in the development of the MAXY-4 product candidates could also adversely affect our ability to continue the business of Perseid, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and cause the price of our stock to drop significantly. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $272.1 million. Although we achieved profitability in 2008, primarily due to the $90.6 million we received from Bayer HealthCare LLC in connection 19 Table of Contents with the sale of our hematology assets, we expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future and may not achieve profitability in the future. We expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from collaborations and license agreements. Revenues from such sources are uncertain because such agreements generally have fixed terms and may be terminated under certain conditions, and because our ability to secure future agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of current and potential future collaborators. As part of our revised corporate strategy, we may also sell assets that currently generate revenue for us. We expect that our operating expenses will exceed revenues in the near term and we do not expect to achieve profitability during the next several years, if at all. These operating expenses will decrease the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. The prospects for commercializing or realizing any value from our MAXY-G34 product candidate are highly uncertain. In 2008, we announced the delay of both Phase III manufacturing and the Phase IIb trial of our MAXY-G34 product candidate for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia until we identify a partner who will share the costs of these activities. To date, we have not identified a suitable partner for this program and there can be no assurances that we will enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development of MAXY-G34 for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. Accordingly, absent a collaborative or other arrangement, we will further delay or cease development of MAXY-G34 for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, which would adversely affect our ability to realize any value from this program. In addition, our suspension of certain manufacturing and development activities will likely have an adverse impact on the timeline for any potential commercialization of MAXY-G34 for chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, which will likely make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement to fund the further development of this product candidate and could limit the commercial potential of MAXY-G34, if commercialized. The existence of certain issued patents and pending patent applications that claim certain G-CSF compositions and their use, including a U.S. patent issued to Amgen in 2008 with certain claims to mutated G-CSF molecules, could also make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement for MAXY-G34. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our MAXY-G34 product candidate could further delay or materially impact the ability to commercialize MAXY-G34 and may also absorb significant management time. Even if we are able to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of MAXY-G34 and this product candidate successfully completes clinical trials and is approved for marketing in the United States or other countries, it will need to compete with other G-CSF drugs then on the market. The ability of MAXY-G34 to be successful in the market will depend on a variety of factors, including, for example, whether MAXY-G34 is clinically differentiated from other G-CSF drugs, the scope and limitations of the label approved by regulators for the use of MAXY-G34, the price of MAXY-G34, reimbursement decisions by third parties with regard to MAXY-G34, the approval and sale of any generic or bioequivalent forms of G-CSF products, such as Neulasta® and Neupogen®, in the United States, and the effort and success of marketing activities undertaken with regard to MAXY-G34. Moreover, although we have granted an option to license certain MAXY-G34 intellectual property rights to Cangene Corporation, or Cangene, for the fulfillment of government contracts related to the treatment of acute radiation syndrome, there can be no assurance that Cangene will pursue or be awarded any such government contracts or, if any such government contracts are awarded to Cangene, that it will exercise its option for such license rights. Any such failure could adversely affect our ability to realize any value from this program. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we do not 20 Table of Contents adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies and erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningfully defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We apply for patents covering our technologies and potential products as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Enforcement of our patents against infringers could require us to expend significant amounts with no assurance that we would be successful in any litigation. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or products. In addition, others may challenge or invalidate our patents or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could require us to shut down some of our operations. Our ability to develop products depends in part on not infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. In particular, others have obtained patents, and have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications that may issue as patents that cover genes or gene fragments or corresponding proteins or peptides that we may wish to utilize to develop, manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. There are often multiple patents owned by third parties that cover particular proteins and related nucleic acids that are of interest to us in the development of our product candidates. To the extent that these patents, or patents that may issue in the future, cover methods or compositions that we wish to use in developing, manufacturing or commercializing our product candidates, and such use by us or on our behalf would constitute infringement of an issued valid patent claim, we would need to obtain a license from the proprietor of the relevant patent rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In particular, our efforts to develop improved, next-generation protein pharmaceuticals could lead to allegations of patent infringement by the parties that hold patents covering other versions of such proteins or methods of making and using such proteins. In addition, third parties that do not have patents that currently cover our activities may obtain such patents in the future and then claim that our activities or product candidates infringe these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims or enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In addition, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to 21 Table of Contents pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, or be required to cease commercializing affected products. We monitor the public disclosures of other companies operating in our industry regarding their technological development efforts. If we determine that these efforts violate our intellectual property or other rights, we intend to take appropriate action, which could include litigation. Any action we take could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. We are deploying unproven technologies. If we, or our collaborative partners, do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to cease operations. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting a biotechnology company with early stage programs. We may not be successful in the commercial development of products. Successful products will require significant investment and development, including clinical testing, to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness before their commercialization. To date, companies in the biotechnology industry have developed and commercialized only a limited number of biological products. We have not proven our ability to develop or commercialize any products. We, alone or in conjunction with corporate collaborators, will need to conduct a substantial amount of additional development before any regulatory authority will approve any of our potential products. This research and development may not indicate that our products are safe and effective, in which case regulatory authorities may not approve them. Problems are frequently encountered in connection with the development and utilization of new and unproven technologies, and the competitive environment in which we operate could limit our ability to develop commercially successful products. Our manufacturing strategy, which relies on third-party manufacturers, exposes us to additional risks. We do not currently have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture any product candidates or potential products ourselves. Completion of any clinical trials and any commercialization of our products will require access to, or development of, manufacturing facilities that meet FDA standards or other regulatory requirements to manufacture a sufficient supply of our potential products. We currently depend on third parties for the scale up and manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical purposes. If our third party manufacturers are unable to manufacture preclinical or clinical supplies in a timely manner, or are unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs or FDA or other regulatory requirements, it could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products, entail higher costs and possibly result in our being unable to sell our products. In addition, technical problems or other manufacturing delays could delay the advancement of potential products into preclinical or clinical trials, delay or prevent us from achieving development milestones under a collaborative agreement or result in the termination of development of particular product candidates, adversely affecting our revenues and product development timetable, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that are suitable for the manufacture of protein pharmaceuticals in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements, and there is often limited access to such facilities. If we are unable to enter into agreements with qualified manufacturers that will provide us with our product candidates in a timely manner and at an acceptable cost, the development or commercialization of a potential product could be delayed, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, failure of any third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including pre- or post-approval inspections and the current GMP requirements of the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies, could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. 22 Table of Contents The manufacturing of our product candidates presents technological, logistical and regulatory risks, each of which may adversely affect our potential revenues. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of pharmaceuticals, and, in particular, biologicals, are technologically and logistically complex and heavily regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of our product candidates present many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • before we can obtain approval of any of our product candidates for the treatment of a particular disease or condition, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and other governmental authorities that the drug manufactured for commercial use is comparable to the drug manufactured for clinical trials and that the manufacturing facility complies with applicable laws and regulations; • it may not be technically feasible to scale up an existing manufacturing process to meet demand or such scale-up may take longer than anticipated; and • failure to comply with strictly enforced GMP regulations and similar foreign standards may result in delays in product approval or withdrawal of an approved product from the market. Any of these factors could delay any clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell any products. Our clinical development strategy, which relies on third party contract research organizations, exposes us to additional risk. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates in the United States and other countries, and therefore have relied on third parties, such as contract research organizations, to assist us in designing our clinical trials, preparing documents for submission to regulatory authorities, obtaining regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials, enrolling qualified patients, conducting and maintaining our clinical trials, and analyzing the results of such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, do not conduct the clinical trials in accordance with planned deadlines and the approved protocol and regulatory requirements, or are unable to manage the conduct of our clinical trials effectively in compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, it could adversely impact the results obtained in such trials, if any, and delay the progress or completion of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products. In any such case, we may be affected by increased costs and delays or both, which may harm our business. Our current and future product candidates could take a long time to complete clinical development, may fail in clinical development, or may never gain approval, which could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. The conduct of clinical trials for a single product candidate is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process and typically requires years to complete. Our product candidates or potential product candidates may produce undesirable toxicities and adverse effects in preclinical studies. Such toxicities or adverse effects could delay or prevent the filing of an IND with respect to such product candidates or potential product candidates. In clinical trials, administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable toxicities or side effects. These toxicities or side effects could interrupt, delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Indications of potential adverse effects or toxicities which may occur in clinical trials and which we believe are not significant during the course of such trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse effects or toxicities when a drug has been used in large populations or for extended periods of time. Although MAXY-4 and MAXY-G34 have demonstrated desirable properties in preclinical testing, and in early clinical testing of MAXY-G34, indicating that these product candidates may have advantages as compared to currently marketed drugs, the results from preclinical testing in vitro and animal models, as well as early, 23 Table of Contents small scale clinical trials, often are not predictive of results obtained in larger later stage clinical trials designed to prove safety and efficacy. For example, after promising preclinical and early clinical data from our lead MAXY-alpha product candidate, clinical trials of this product candidate were terminated in 2007 after an unexpected reduction of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects was observed and antibodies binding to MAXY-alpha were identified in a Phase I repeat-dosing trial. As a result, there can be no assurances that clinical trials of any of our current or future product candidates will be completed or produce sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval or result in a marketed product. In addition, the timing of the commencement, continuation or completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays, or a clinical trial may be suspended or delayed by us, a collaborator, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies for various reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials that necessitate additional clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutions, review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials necessary for the conduct of the clinical trials; • the occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or properties or unforeseen adverse events, especially as compared to currently approved drugs intended to treat the same indications; • our lack of financial resources to continue the development of a product candidate; • future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or the policy of foreign regulatory agencies during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review; or • other reasons that are internal to the business of a collaborative partner, which it may not share with us. As a result of these risks and other factors, we may conduct lengthy and expensive preclinical studies and clinical trials of MAXY-4 and our other current or future product candidates, only to learn that a particular product candidate has failed to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approval for one or more therapeutic indications, has failed to demonstrate clinically relevant differentiation of our products from currently marketed products, does not offer therapeutic or other improvements compared to other marketed drugs, has unforeseen adverse events or does not otherwise demonstrate sufficient potential to make the commercialization of the product worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing our product candidates could severely harm our business. Our potential products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process and may never gain approval. If our potential products are not approved, we or our collaborative partners will not be able to commercialize those products. The FDA must approve any therapeutic product or vaccine before it can be marketed in the United States. Other countries also require approvals from regulatory authorities comparable to the FDA before products can be marketed in the applicable country. Before we can file a biologic license application (BLA) with the FDA or other regulatory entity, the product candidate must undergo extensive testing, including animal studies and human clinical trials, which can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from such testing may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Because our potential products involve the application of new technologies and may be based upon new therapeutic approaches, they may be subject to substantial review by government regulatory authorities and these 24 Table of Contents authorities may grant regulatory approvals more slowly for our products than for products using more conventional technologies. Neither the FDA nor any other regulatory authority has approved any therapeutic product candidate developed with our MolecularBreeding™ directed evolution platform for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. We, or a collaborator, may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain the necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for our products. Regulatory approval of a BLA is never guaranteed, and the approval process may take several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and other regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical testing and clinical trials. The number and focus of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA and other regulatory agencies might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if we receive regulatory approval to sell a product, the approved label for a product may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, even if MAXY-G34 is further developed for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and approved by the FDA, if we are not able to obtain broad labeling for this product allowing approved use with multiple chemotherapy regimens for multiple cancers, MAXY-G34 may not be adopted by hospital formularies or otherwise have limited commercial success which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Further, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continued review, and discovery of previously unknown problems or adverse events associated with an approved product or the discovery of previously unknown problems with the manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, the manufacturer or the manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In certain countries, regulatory agencies also set or approve prices. During the period while we are engaged in product development, the policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory entities may change and additional government laws or regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not obtain approval of our products or be permitted to market our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In this regard, legislation has been proposed in the United States but not yet enacted into law that would define a regulatory approval process for protein drugs that are similar to already marketed protein drugs. If our collaborations are not successful or we are unable to enter into and maintain future collaboration arrangements for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to effectively develop and market some of our products. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to develop and commercialize multiple products, or the resources to complete all approval processes that may be required for these potential products, we have generally sought to enter into collaborative arrangements to fund the development of new product candidates for specific indications and to develop and commercialize potential products. Perseid is currently party to collaboration arrangements with Astellas with respect to the MAXY-4 program and its other preclinical product 25 Table of Contents candidates and, if we are unable to enter into any new collaboration arrangements, or if existing or future collaboration arrangements are not maintained, our potential products may not be commercialized. We have limited or no control over the resources that a collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of our potential products. A collaborator may elect not to develop potential products arising out of a collaborative arrangement or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Further, a collaborator may not perform its obligations as expected and may delay the development or commercialization of a product candidate, terminate its agreement with us, or breach or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our potential products. For example, if Astellas elects not to exercise its option to purchase our interests in Perseid and we are unable to enter into a collaboration or licensing arrangement for the continued preclinical or clinical development of MAXY-4 or any of Perseid’s other programs, or we are unable to enter into a collaboration or licensing arrangement for the continued clinical development of MAXY-G34, we or Perseid may elect to delay or discontinue further development of such programs, which may harm our business. Any conflicts with a collaborator could harm our business. An important part of our strategy involves conducting proprietary research programs. As a result, we may pursue opportunities in fields that could conflict with a future collaborator. Moreover, disagreements with a collaborator could develop over rights to our intellectual property. Any conflict with a collaborator could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with a future collaborator, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, a collaborator may market products intended to treat the medical conditions that our product candidates are planned to be used to treat, and could become our competitors in the future. For example, a collaborator could develop and commercialize competing products, fail to rapidly develop our product candidates, fail to obtain timely regulatory approvals for product commercialization, terminate their agreements with us prematurely, or fail to devote sufficient resources to allow the development and commercialization of our products. Any of these circumstances could harm our product development efforts. We have limited ability to prevent actions by any future collaborator that could have any adverse impact on the development and commercialization of our related product candidates. Our revenues, expenses and operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues, expenses and operating results to fluctuate include: • the sale of an asset, or assets, that currently generate revenue for us; • the termination of research and development contracts with collaborators, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our development or discovery efforts leading to milestones and royalties under collaboration arrangements, if any; • the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements; • the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to contract manufacturing, preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the timing and willingness of any existing or future collaborators to commercialize our products, which would result in royalties to us; and 26 Table of Contents • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect the research and development expenditures of any future collaborator. In addition, a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. Accordingly, if revenues fluctuate unexpectedly due to failure to obtain anticipated new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to immediately reduce our operating expenses, which could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would likely decline. Other biological products may compete with our products. If approved for sale by regulatory authorities, our next-generation protein therapeutics will likely compete with already approved earlier-generation products based on the same protein. In addition, as the patent protection for such earlier-generation protein products expires, we expect that additional products with amino acid sequences identical or substantially similar to those of the earlier-generation protein products that have lost patent protection will also enter the marketplace, and compete with such earlier generation protein products and our products. This competition may be intense, with success determined by product attributes, price and marketing power. The availability of such similar products may result in price erosion for all products of the class and could lead to limits on reimbursement for our products by third party payors. With regard to our MAXY-4 product candidates, we expect Orencia® (Bristol Myers Squibb Company) to compete with MAXY-4, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that Bristol Myers Squibb Company is also developing belatacept that, if marketed, could compete with MAXY-4. With regard to our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we would expect Neulasta® and Neupogen® to compete with MAXY-G34, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that BioGeneriX AG and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. are developing G-CSF products based on naturally occurring human G-CSF. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) has adopted guidelines for assessing the comparability of biosimilar products including G-CSF. The basis for such approvals in the European Union will be proof of comparability of the new protein drug to the prior drug, which will require clinical studies of the biosimilar protein drug. In the United States, there is presently no legislation that specifically addresses the regulatory process for approval of biosimilar protein drugs, and to date only a biosimilar human growth hormone and certain insulin products have been approved by the FDA under a new drug application (NDA) in accordance with Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. However, legislation has been introduced into both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives that addresses the development path and requirements for biosimilar protein drugs. It is not clear whether such legislation will be enacted into law, and if passed, what the substance of such legislation will be. However, any law that permits the approval of biosimilars would likely lead to the eventual introduction of biosimilar protein products in the United States, which could result in increased competition for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of gene research is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with 27 Table of Contents respect to technological advances. Rapid technological or product development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. As a company that is focused on next-generation protein therapeutic products, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from both large and small biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies for modifying DNA and proteins. These companies and organizations may develop technologies that are alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors in the protein optimization field, including companies that have developed and commercialized prior versions of protein therapeutic products, may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Some of these competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets to produce commercial products. In addition, therapeutic products that are small molecules may be developed by our competitors that could reduce or displace the market for our protein therapeutic products. Small molecule drugs are often less expensive and easier to administer than protein therapeutics and therefore would have competitive advantages if they were developed and shown to be safe and effective for the indication that our product candidates are targeting. Even if approved by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency, any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets and may fail to achieve market acceptance, which would impair our ability to become profitable. Most of the companies and organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staff and facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in modifying DNA and proteins, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop technologies and products more easily, which would render our technologies and products and those of a collaborator obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, if any of our drug candidates are approved for commercial sale, they will need to compete with other products intended to treat the same disease, including the marketed versions of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve, and possibly including other variant versions of such drug, and generic bioequivalent or biosimilar versions of such drugs, and small molecule drugs. Such competition may be intense and lead to price reductions for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Moreover, any adverse developments related to a currently marketed version of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve or a generic bioequivalent or biosimilar version of such drug may have a significant adverse impact on the continued development or future commercialization and marketing of our related product candidates and could cause us to change our development plans or discontinue further development of such product candidates. If we are unable to market and commercialize our product successfully, our business would be adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Industry Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. The development of human therapeutic products is long and uncertain. Most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials. Moreover, most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. In addition, due to the nature of human therapeutic research and development, the expected timing of product development, initiation of clinical trials and the results of such development and clinical trials are uncertain and subject to change at any point. Such uncertainty, which exists even for product candidates that appear promising based on earlier data, may result in research or development delays, clinical trial delays and failures, product candidate failures and delays in regulatory action or approval. Such delays or failures could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential development and commercialization of our product candidates and could drastically reduce the price of our stock and our ability to raise capital. Without sufficient capital, we could be forced to reduce or cease our operations. 28 Table of Contents All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would satisfactorily support the filing of an investigational new drug application (IND) with respect to our drug candidates, and the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. Moreover, the available animal models may be unsuitable for assessing our potential products for one or more indications, increasing the risk that animal models may not provide accurate or meaningful data as to the suitability or advantages of our potential products as treatments for the diseases or medical conditions of interest. Similarly, early-stage clinical trials may not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. In addition, there can be no assurance that the design of our clinical trials will result in obtaining the desired efficacy data to support regulatory approval. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any foreign regulatory agency, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. The FDA and similar regulatory agencies determine the type and amount of data necessary to obtain approval of any drug candidate, and as a result of new data or changes in the policies or practices of such agencies, the type and amount of data required for approval may change in the period between the start of product development and the completion of clinical trials. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing any of our current or future product candidates could severely harm our business. If we or a collaborator receives regulatory approval for one of our drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. Any regulatory approvals that we or a collaborator receives for one of our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency approves any of our drug candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restriction on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. We may be subject to costly product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance. Because we have conducted clinical trials in humans in the past and may conduct such trials in the future, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials, however, such liability insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any liabilities that arise from clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of the hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials we use in our business could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials and our operations produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from those materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production activities. 29 Table of Contents Legislative actions, new accounting pronouncements and higher compliance costs may adversely impact our future financial position and results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected earnings fluctuations and may adversely affect our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of such pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the recent past and may occur in the future. In addition, we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. In addition, compliance with changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may also result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, have often created uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and cause a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to preserve our cash balances or access such sources if necessary. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. As of December 31, 2009, we had $159.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, of which, $20.3 million is held by Perseid and may only be used for Perseid’s operations. While we maintain an investment portfolio primarily of short-term commercial paper and money market funds and have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen. Under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that we would be able to preserve our cash balances or that such sources would be available or sufficient for our business. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results. All of our facilities and substantially all of our important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our drug candidates and compounds and our electronic business records, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in Redwood City, California near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. Risks Related To an Investment in Our Securities Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading prices of life science company stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced significant price fluctuations in the last several years. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from $4.78 to $9.49. The valuations of many life science companies without product revenues and earnings, including ours, are based on valuation standards such as price to sales ratios and progress in product development or clinical trials. Trading prices based on these valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology or life science companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our 30 Table of Contents performance. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • our consummation, or our failure to consummate, any strategic transaction; • any decision by Astellas to exercise, or the failure of Astellas to exercise, its option to purchase our ownership interests in Perseid; • our implementation, or our failure to implement, any distribution of a portion of our cash resources to stockholders; • announcements or events related to Codexis, including its consummation or failure to consummate an initial public offering or other liquidity event; • our failure to meet our publicly announced revenue and/or expense projections and/or product development timetables; • adverse or inconclusive results or delays in preclinical development or clinical trials; • any entry into or material amendment or termination of a collaborative or license agreement; • any decisions to discontinue or delay development programs or clinical trials; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and life science industries; • changes in the market valuations of other biotechnology or life science companies; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes, terrorist acts and other factors; • developments in or challenges relating to our patent or other proprietary rights, including lawsuits or proceedings alleging patent infringement based on the development, manufacturing or commercialization of our product candidates; and • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation. Substantial sales of shares may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock trading volume is low and thus the market price of our common stock is particularly sensitive to trading volume. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or other equity awards, the market price of our common stock may decline. Significant sales of our common stock may adversely impact the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Volatility in the stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The stock market in general, and The Nasdaq Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in 31 Table of Contents the market prices of securities of early stage and development stage life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and could harm our reputation and business. Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 