Item 1A RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred net losses since our inception, including net losses of $49.3 million in 2007, $16.5 million in 2006 and $18.4 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $270.0 million. We expect to incur losses and negative cash flow from operating activities for at least the next several years and may never achieve profitability. To date, we have derived substantially all our revenues from collaborations, license agreements and grants and expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from such sources for at least the next several years. Revenues from such sources are uncertain because such agreements and grants generally have fixed terms and may be terminated under certain conditions, and because our ability to secure future agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of potential future collaborators. We expect to spend significant amounts to fund the development of our product candidates. As a result, we expect that our operating expenses will 15 Table of Contents exceed revenues in the near term and we do not expect to achieve profitability during the next several years, if at all. If the time required for us to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. We are an early stage company deploying unproven technologies. If we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to cease operations. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. We may not be successful in the commercial development of products. Successful products will require significant investment and development, including clinical testing, to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness before their commercialization. To date, companies in the biotechnology industry have developed and commercialized only a limited number of biological products. We have not proven our ability to develop or commercialize any products. We, alone or in conjunction with corporate collaborators, will need to conduct a substantial amount of additional development before any regulatory authority will approve any of our potential products. This research and development may not indicate that our products are safe and effective, in which case regulatory authorities may not approve them. Problems are frequently encountered in connection with the development and utilization of new and unproven technologies, and the competitive environment in which we operate could limit our ability to develop commercially successful products. The prospects of our current product candidates are highly uncertain. In particular, ongoing clinical trials of our lead MAXY-G34 product candidate may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing for this product candidate or cease our trials, which could adversely affect our business and cause a significant drop in our stock price. There is a substantial risk that our drug discovery and development efforts may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. Our lead MAXY-G34 product candidate is currently in Phase IIa clinical trials in breast cancer patients for the treatment of neutropenia. While we announced positive progress in this clinical trial in January 2008, the results of preliminary studies and early-stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. Moreover, in our industry, most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials and most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. Accordingly, negative or inconclusive results from ongoing or future clinical trials of MAXY-G34 could lead us to cease the development of this product candidate and decide not to advance this product candidate into later stage clinical trials, such as a Phase IIb trial or pivotal Phase III trials. We may decide to cease further development of the product candidate for a variety of reasons, including evidence that MAXY-G34 may not meaningfully reduce the period or risk of neutropenia following chemotherapy, may remain in circulation longer than desired or cause adverse side effects. In addition, regardless of the clinical properties of MAXY-G34, we may cease development of this product candidate at any time if we determine that we cannot afford the costs of further developing this product candidate ourselves and we are unable to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of this product candidate. Even if MAXY-G34 successfully completes clinical trials and is approved for marketing in the United States or other countries, it will need to compete with other G-CSF drugs then on the market. The ability of MAXY-G34 to be successful in the market will depend on a variety of factors, including, for example, whether MAXY-G34 is clinically differentiated from other G-CSF drugs, the scope and limitations of the label approved by regulators for the use of MAXY-G34, the price of MAXY-G34, reimbursement decisions by third parties with regard to MAXY-G34, and the effort and success of marketing activities undertaken with regard to MAXY-G34. We are aware that Amgen Inc. and other third parties have a number of issued patents that claim certain G-CSF compositions and their use. Amgen Inc. and other third parties also have pending patent applications that are directed at certain G-CSF compositions and their use and these applications could result in issued patents. For example, we recently became aware that the U.S Patent and Trademark Office allowed claims relating to G-CSF variants in a patent application owned by Amgen Inc. No patent has yet issued on this application but may issue later in 2008. The owners of issued patents, such as Amgen, Inc., could elect to commence a patent infringement suit 16 Table of Contents against us with regard to MAXY-G34 in the courts or before the International Trade Commission. While we believe that we would have good defenses to any such suit, the outcome of patent litigation is necessarily uncertain and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of any such suit, and we may not prevail. If the outcome of any such suit or action was unfavorable to us, we might have to pay significant damages to the patent owner, and if any patents found to be infringed had not expired, we could be enjoined from commercializing or importing MAXY-G34. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. The development of human therapeutic products is long and uncertain. Most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials. Moreover, most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. In addition, due to the nature of human therapeutic research and development, the expected timing of product development, initiation of clinical trials and the results of such development and clinical trials are uncertain and subject to change at any point. Such uncertainty, which exists even for product candidates that appear promising based on earlier data, may result in research or development delays, clinical trial delays and failures, product candidate failures and delays in regulatory action or approval. Such delays or failures could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential development and commercialization of our product candidates and could drastically reduce the price of our stock and our ability to raise capital. Without sufficient capital, we could be forced to reduce or cease our operations. All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would satisfactorily support the filing of an investigational new drug application (IND) with respect to our drug candidates, and the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. Moreover, the available animal models may be unsuitable for assessing our potential products for one or more indications, increasing the risk that animal models may not provide accurate or meaningful data as to the suitability or advantages of our potential products as treatments for the diseases or medical conditions of interest. Similarly, early-stage clinical trials may not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. In addition, there can be no assurance that the design of our clinical trials will result in obtaining the desired efficacy data to support regulatory approval. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any foreign regulatory agency, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. The FDA and similar regulatory agencies determine the type and amount of data necessary to obtain approval of any drug candidate, and as a result of new data or changes in the policies or practices of such agencies, the type and amount of data required for approval may change in the period between the start of product development and the completion of clinical trials. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing any of our current or future product candidates could severely harm our business. The development of our product candidates, which is based on modifications to natural human proteins, may be subject to substantial delays, increased development costs, reduced market potential for any resulting product or the termination of the affected development program by us or a collaborator, each of which could adversely affect our business. We design our product candidates to confer what we believe will be improved biological properties as compared to one or more currently marketed products. As a result, our product candidates differ from currently marketed drugs in ways that we expect will be beneficial. However, the impact of the modifications that we make in our product candidates may not be fully apparent in preclinical testing and may only be discovered in clinical testing. Such altered properties may render a product candidate unsuitable or less beneficial than expected for one or more diseases or medical conditions of possible interest or make the product candidate unsuitable for further development. For example, our products may be found to be more immunogenic than the corresponding natural human proteins or demonstrate undesirable pharmokinetic or pharmodynamic properties. For a particular product 17 Table of Contents candidate, this may lead to the redirection of the development strategy which could result in substantial delays, increased development costs, decreased likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, and reduced market potential for any resulting product. This also could result in the termination of the development of the affected product candidate. In either case, such results could adversely affect our business. In addition, we or a collaborator may determine that certain preclinical or clinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient therapeutic or commercial potential to warrant further advancement for a particular indication or all indications, and may elect to terminate a program for such indications or product candidates at any time. For example, we may conclude that a product candidate is not differentiated in a meaningful way from existing products, or that the costs of seeking to establish that a product candidate is differentiated would be prohibitive, or that the market size for a differentiated product with the attributes of a particular product candidate does not justify the expense and risk of further development. If we terminate a preclinical or clinical program in which we have invested significant resources, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. In particular, the failure of our MAXY-G34 or MAXY-VII product candidates in clinical development could have a material adverse impact on our business. Termination of either program may also cause the price of our stock to drop significantly. Our clinical development strategy, which relies on third party contract research organizations, exposes us to additional risk. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates in the United States and other countries, and therefore rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, to assist us in designing our clinical trials, preparing documents for submission to regulatory authorities, obtaining regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials, enrolling qualified patients, conducting our clinical trials, and analyzing the results of such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, do not conduct the clinical trials in accordance with planned deadlines and the approved protocol and regulatory requirements, or are unable to manage the conduct of our clinical trials effectively in compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, it could adversely impact the results obtained in such trials and delay the progress or completion of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products. In any such case, we may be affected by increased costs and delays or both, which may harm our business. Our revenues, expenses and operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues, expenses and operating results to fluctuate include: • the termination of research and development contracts with collaborators or government research grants, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our development or discovery efforts leading to milestones and royalties under future collaboration arrangements, if any; • the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements; • the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to contract manufacturing, preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the timing and willingness of any future collaborators to commercialize our products, which would result in royalties to us; and • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect the research and development expenditures of any future collaborator. 18 Table of Contents In addition, a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. Accordingly, if revenues fluctuate unexpectedly due to unexpected expiration of government research grants, failure to obtain anticipated new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to immediately reduce our operating expenses, which could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would likely decline. Our current and future product candidates could take a long time to complete clinical development, may fail in clinical development, or may never gain approval, which could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. The conduct of clinical trials for a single product candidate is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process and typically requires years to complete. In July 2007, we initiated a Phase IIa clinical trial in Eastern Europe for our MAXY-G34 product candidate for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. Thus, our most advanced product candidate is now only in the early stages of clinical trials. Our product candidates or potential product candidates may produce undesirable toxicities and adverse effects in preclinical studies. Such toxicities or adverse effects could delay or prevent the filing of an IND with respect to such product candidates or potential product candidates. In clinical trials, administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable toxicities or side effects. These toxicities or side effects could interrupt, delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Indications of potential adverse effects or toxicities which may occur in clinical trials and which we believe are not significant during the course of such trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse effects or toxicities when a drug has been used in large populations or for extended periods of time. Although MAXY-G34 has demonstrated properties in preclinical and early clinical testing indicating that it may have advantages as compared to currently marketed drugs, the results from preclinical testing in vitro and animal models, as well as early, small scale clinical trials, often are not predictive of results obtained in larger later stage clinical trials designed to prove safety and efficacy. For example, after promising preclinical and early clinical data from our lead MAXY-alpha product candidate, clinical trials of this product candidate were terminated after an unexpected reduction of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects were observed and antibodies binding to MAXY-alpha were identified in a Phase I trial. As a result, there can be no assurances that clinical trials of any of our current or future product candidates will be completed or produce sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval or result in a marketed product. In addition, the timing of the commencement, continuation or completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays, or a clinical trial may be suspended or delayed by us, a collaborator, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies for various reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials that necessitate additional clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutions, review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials necessary for the conduct of the clinical trials; • the occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or properties or unforeseen adverse side effects, especially as compared to currently approved drugs intended to treat the same indications; • our lack of financial resources to continue the development of a product candidate; 19 Table of Contents • future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or the policy of foreign regulatory agencies during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review; or • other reasons that are internal to the business of a collaborative partner, which it may not share with us. As a result of these risks and other factors, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of MAXY-G34 or our other current or future product candidates, only to learn that a particular product candidate has failed to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approval for one or more therapeutic indications, has failed to demonstrate clinically relevant differentiation of our products from currently marketed products, does not offer therapeutic or other improvements compared to other marketed drugs, has unforeseen adverse side effects or does not otherwise demonstrate sufficient potential to make the commercialization of the product worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing our product candidates could severely harm our business. Our potential products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process and may never gain approval. If our potential products are not approved, we will not be able to commercialize those products. The FDA must approve any therapeutic product or vaccine before it can be marketed in the United States. Other countries also require approvals from regulatory authorities comparable to the FDA before products can be marketed in the applicable country. Before we can file biologic license application (BLA) with the FDA or other regulatory entity, the product candidate must undergo extensive testing, including animal studies and human clinical trials, which can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from such testing may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Because our potential products involve the application of new technologies and may be based upon new therapeutic approaches, they may be subject to substantial review by government regulatory authorities and these authorities may grant regulatory approvals more slowly for our products than for products using more conventional technologies. Neither the FDA nor any other regulatory authority has approved any therapeutic product candidate developed with our MolecularBreeding directed evolution platform for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. We, or a collaborator, may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain the necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for our products. Regulatory approval of a BLA is never guaranteed, and the approval process typically takes several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and other regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical testing and clinical trials. The number and focus of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA and other regulatory agencies might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change its approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if we receive regulatory approval to sell a product, the approved label for a product may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, even if MAXY-G34 is approved by the FDA, if we are not able to obtain broad labeling for this product allowing approved use with multiple chemotherapy regimens for multiple cancers, MAXY-G34 may not be adopted by hospital formularies or otherwise have limited commercial success which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Further, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continued review, and discovery of previously unknown problems or side effects associated with an approved product or the discovery of previously unknown problems with the manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, the manufacturer or the 20 Table of Contents manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In certain countries, regulatory agencies also set or approve prices. During the period while we are engaged in product development, the policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory entities may change and additional government laws or regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not obtain approval of our products or be permitted to market our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In this regard, legislation has been proposed in the United States but not yet enacted into law that would define a regulatory approval process for protein drugs that are similar to already marketed protein drugs. Our manufacturing strategy, which relies on third-party manufacturers, exposes us to additional risks. We do not currently have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture any product candidates or potential products ourselves. Completion of any clinical trials and any commercialization of our products will require access to, or development of, manufacturing facilities that meet FDA standards or other regulatory requirements to manufacture a sufficient supply of our potential products. We currently depend on third parties for the scale up and manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical purposes. If our third party manufacturer is unable to manufacture preclinical or clinical supplies in a timely manner, or is unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs or FDA or other regulatory requirements, it could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products, entail higher costs and possibly result in our being unable to sell our products. In addition, technical problems or other manufacturing delays could delay the advancement of potential products into preclinical or clinical trials, delay or prevent us from achieving development milestones under a collaborative agreement or result in the termination of development of particular product candidates, adversely affecting our revenues and product development timetable, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that are suitable for the manufacture of protein pharmaceuticals in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements and there is often limited access to such facilities. If we are unable to enter into agreements with qualified manufacturers that will provide us with our product candidates in a timely manner and at an acceptable cost, the development or commercialization of a potential product could be delayed, which would adversely affect our business. With regard to our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we obtain polyethylene glycol (PEG) for use in making such product from Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation (formerly Shearwater Polymers, Inc.), a subsidiary of Nektar Therapeutics. If Nektar fails or is unable to timely supply us with PEG that meets our product needs, then we could encounter delays in the development or commercialization of MAXY-G34, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. In addition, failure of any third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including pre- or post-approval inspections and the current GMP requirements of the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies, could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. The manufacturing of our product candidates presents technological, logistical and regulatory risks, each of which may adversely affect our potential revenues. The manufacturing and manufacturing development of pharmaceuticals, and, in particular, biologicals, are technologically and logistically complex and heavily regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities. The 21 Table of Contents manufacturing and manufacturing development of our product candidates present many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • before we can obtain approval of any of our product candidates for the treatment of a particular disease or condition, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and other governmental authorities that the drug manufactured for commercial use is comparable to the drug manufactured for clinical trials and that the manufacturing facility complies with applicable laws and regulations; • it may not be technically feasible to scale up an existing manufacturing process to meet demand or such scale-up may take longer than anticipated; and • failure to comply with strictly enforced GMP regulations and similar foreign standards may result in delays in product approval or withdrawal of an approved product from the market. Any of these factors could delay any clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell any products. We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalents and income earned thereon, together with anticipated revenues from existing license agreements and grants, will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our current plans and assumptions may change, and our capital requirements may increase in future periods depending on many factors, including payments received under our license agreements and government grants, the progress and scope of our research and development projects, the extent to which we advance products into and through clinical trials with our own resources, the effect of any acquisitions, and the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims. Changes may also occur that would consume available capital resources significantly sooner than we expect. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to us or our stockholders. If additional funds are not available, we may be forced to delay or terminate research or preclinical development programs, clinical trials or the commercialization of products, if any, resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business. If we are unable to enter into or maintain future collaboration arrangements for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to effectively develop and market some of our products. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to develop and commercialize multiple products, or the resources to complete all approval processes that may be required for these potential products, we have generally sought to enter into collaborative arrangements to fund the development of new product candidates for specific indications and to develop and commercialize potential products. We are not currently party to a collaboration arrangement with respect to any of our primary product candidates and, if we are unable to enter into any new collaboration arrangements, or if any future collaboration arrangements are not maintained, our potential products may not be commercialized. We have limited or no control over the resources that a collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of our potential products. A collaborator may elect not to develop potential products arising out of a collaborative arrangement or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Further, a collaborator may not perform its obligations as expected and may delay the development or commercialization of a product candidate, terminate its agreement with us, or breach or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our potential products. 22 Table of Contents In April 2007, Roche terminated its agreement with us relating to the co-development and commercialization of our MAXY-VII product candidates for acute bleeding indications due to the inability of the parties to de-risk the program in preclinical testing by failing to establish an animal model suitable to demonstrate cessation of acute bleeding in a trauma setting. In November 2007, we agreed with Roche to terminate the collaboration agreement for our MAXY-alpha product candidates due to preliminary observations of an unexpected reduction of pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects of MAXY-alpha during a Phase Ia clinical trial. We currently intend to advance one of our MAXY-VII product candidates into clinical trials for the treatment of hemophilia, and we are currently evaluating our plans for the continued development of our MAXY-VII product candidates for acute bleeding indications and the continued development of our MAXY-alpha product candidates for all indications. However, the termination of these agreements may make it more difficult or impossible for us to enter into an agreement with another third party for the development or commercialization of these product candidates for such indications. For example, if we are unable to enter into a new collaboration or licensing arrangement for the development of MAXY-VII, we may elect to discontinue further development of MAXY-VII for acute indications. If, on the other hand, we decide to use our own resources to continue the development of these product candidates for acute indications, as well as for hemophilia, our operating expenses could increase substantially, which may harm our business. Any conflicts with a collaborator could harm our business. An important part of our strategy involves conducting proprietary research programs. As a result, we may pursue opportunities in fields that could conflict with a future collaborator. Moreover, disagreements with a collaborator could develop over rights to our intellectual property. Any conflict with a collaborator could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with a future collaborator, which could reduce our revenues. In addition, a collaborator may market products intended to treat the medical conditions that our product candidates are planned to be used to treat, and could become our competitors in the future. For example, a collaborator could develop and commercialize competing products, fail to rapidly develop our product candidates, fail to obtain timely regulatory approvals for product commercialization, terminate their agreements with us prematurely, or fail to devote sufficient resources to allow the development and commercialization of our products. Any of these circumstances could harm our product development efforts. We have limited ability to prevent actions by any future collaborator that could have any adverse impact on the development and commercialization of our related product candidates. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies and erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningfully defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We apply for patents covering our technologies and potential products as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Enforcement of our patents against infringers could require us to expend significant amounts with no assurance that we would be successful in any litigation. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented 23 Table of Contents technologies or products. In addition, others may challenge or invalidate our patents or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. Recently, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office adopted new rules that were to become effective on November 1, 2007, regarding processes for obtaining patents in the United States. However, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia issued a preliminary injunction preventing implementation of the new rules until a consolidated lawsuit challenging the rules is resolved. The new rules are numerous and complex and their impact, as well as the resolution of the injunction and pending lawsuit, is still uncertain. The new rules, if made effective, generally are expected to make it more difficult for patent applicants to obtain patents, especially with regard to biotechnology products and processes. Although we do not believe that the rule changes, if made effective, would likely have a material adverse impact with regard to our MAXY-G34 or MAXY-VII programs, it may be more difficult to obtain patent protection in the United States for any future product candidates. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could require us to shut down some of our operations. Our ability to develop products depends in part on not infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. In particular, others have obtained patents, and have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications that may issue as patents that cover genes or gene fragments or corresponding proteins or peptides that we may wish to utilize to develop, manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. There are often multiple patents owned by third parties that cover particular proteins and related nucleic acids that are of interest to us in the development of our product candidates. For example, we are aware that Amgen, Inc. and others have issued patents and pending patent applications relating to G-CSF, and that Novo Nordisk A/S and others have issued patents and pending patent applications relating to Factor VII. To the extent that these patents, or patents that may issue in the future, cover methods or compositions that we wish to use in developing, manufacturing or commercializing our product candidates, and such use by us or on our behalf would constitute infringement of an issued valid patent claim, we would need to obtain a license from the proprietor of the relevant patent rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In particular, our efforts to develop improved, next-generation protein pharmaceuticals could lead to allegations of patent infringement by the parties that hold patents covering other versions of such proteins or methods of making and using such proteins. In addition, third parties that do not have patents that currently cover our activities may obtain such patents in the future and then claim that our activities or product candidates infringe these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims or enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In addition, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, or be required to cease commercializing affected products. We monitor the public disclosures of other companies operating in our industry regarding their technological development efforts. If we determine that these efforts violate our intellectual property or other rights, we intend to take appropriate action, which could include litigation. Any action we take could result in substantial costs and 24 Table of Contents diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. Budget or cash constraints may force us to delay or terminate our efforts to develop certain products and could prevent us from executing our business plan, meeting our stated timetables and commercializing our potential products as quickly as possible. Because we are an emerging company with limited resources, and because the research and development of pharmaceuticals is a long and expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development resources. Accordingly, we may choose to delay or terminate our research and development efforts for a promising product candidate to allocate those resources to another program, which could cause us to fall behind our timetables for development and prevent us from commercializing product candidates as quickly as possible. As a result, we may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, since they will be delayed in reaching the market, or may not reach the market at all. We are continuing our efforts to contain costs and continue to believe that strict cost containment in the near term is essential if our current funds are to be sufficient to allow us to continue our currently planned operations. We assess market conditions on an ongoing basis and plan to take appropriate actions as required. However, we may not be able to effectively contain our costs and achieve an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues. As a result, we could have inadequate levels of cash for future operations or for future capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate the business. Our revenues are primarily derived from government grants and license agreements, and our inability to maintain these grants and agreements or establish and maintain new collaborations, license agreements or grants would adversely impact our revenues, financial position and results of operation. Our collaboration agreements with Roche for our MAXY-alpha and MAXY-VII product candidates were terminated in 2007 and we currently have two government grants and a license agreement with Codexis that we expected to generate revenue in 2008. We expect that substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future will result from government grants and this license agreement. If the government grants or the license agreement is materially amended or terminated and we are unable to enter into new collaboration or license agreements or obtain new grants, our revenues, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Other biological products may compete with our products. If approved for sale by regulatory authorities, our next-generation protein therapeutics will likely compete with already approved earlier-generation products based on the same protein. In addition, as the patent protection for such earlier-generation protein products expires, we expect that additional products with amino acid sequences identical or substantially similar to those of the earlier-generation protein products that have lost patent protection will also enter the marketplace, and compete with such earlier generation protein products and our products. This competition may be intense, with success determined by product attributes, price and marketing power. The availability of such similar products may result in price erosion for all products of the class and could lead to limits on reimbursement for our products by third party payors. With regard to our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we expect Neulasta and Neupogen (from Amgen, Inc.) to compete with MAXY-G34, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that Neose Technologies, Inc. and CoGenesys, Inc. are developing G-CSF products based on naturally occurring human G-CSF. With regard to our MAXY-VII product candidate, we expect NovoSeven (from Novo Nordisk A/S) to compete with MAXY-VII, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that Novo Nordisk, Neose Technologies Inc., Inspiration Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. and Catalyst Biosciences, Inc. have announced that they are developing Factor VIIa based products that, if marketed, could compete with MAXY-VII. With regard to our MAXY-4 product candidates, we expect Orencia (from Bristol Myers Squibb Company) to compete with MAXY-4, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that Bristol Myers Squibb Company is also developing Belatacept that, if marketed, could compete with MAXY-4. 25 Table of Contents The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) has adopted guidelines for assessing the comparability of biosimilar products including G-CSF. The basis for such approvals in the European Union will be proof of comparability of the new protein drug to the prior drug, which will require clinical studies of the biosimilar protein drug. In the United States, there is presently no legislation that specifically addresses the regulatory process for approval of biosimilar protein drugs, and to date only a biosimilar human growth hormone and certain insulin products have been approved by the FDA under a new drug application (NDA) in accordance with Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. However, legislation has been introduced into both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives that addresses the development path and requirements for biosimilar protein drugs. It is not clear whether such legislation will be enacted into law, and if passed, what the substance of such legislation will be. However, any law that permits the approval of biosimilars would likely lead to the eventual introduction of biosimilar protein products in the United States, which could result in increased competition for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of gene research is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological or product development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. As a company that is focused on next-generation protein therapeutic products, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from both large and small biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies for modifying DNA and proteins. These companies and organizations may develop technologies that are alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors in the protein optimization field, including companies that have developed and commercialized prior versions of protein therapeutic products, may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Some of these competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets to produce commercial products. In addition, therapeutic products that are small molecules may be developed by our competitors that could reduce or displace the market for our protein therapeutic products. Small molecule drugs are often less expensive and easier to administer than protein therapeutics and therefore would have competitive advantages if they were developed and shown to be safe and effective for the indication that our product candidates are targeting. Even if approved by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency, any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets may fail to achieve market acceptance, which would impair our ability to become profitable. Most of the companies and organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staff and facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in modifying DNA and proteins, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop technologies and products more easily, which would render our technologies and products and those of a collaborator obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, if any of our drug candidates are approved for commercial sale, they will need to compete with other products intended to treat the same disease, including the marketed versions of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve, and possibly including other variant versions of such drug, and generic bioequivalent or biosimilar versions of such drugs, and small molecule drugs. Such competition may be intense and lead to price reductions for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Moreover, any adverse developments related to a currently marketed version of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve or a generic bioequivalent or biosimilar version of such drug may have a significant adverse impact on the continued development or future commercialization and marketing of our related product candidates and could cause us to change our development plans or discontinue further development of such product candidates. If we are unable to market and commercialize our product successfully, our business would be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Legislative actions, new accounting pronouncements and higher compliance costs may adversely impact our future financial position and results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected earnings fluctuations and may adversely affect our reported results of operations. For example, our implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS 123(R) in 2006 had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and net loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007 and is expected to have a material impact on our results of operations in the future. The continued impact of expensing stock-based compensation will depend in part upon the timing and amount of future equity compensation awards. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of such pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the recent past and may occur in the future. In addition, we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. In addition, compliance with changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may also result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, have often created uncertainty for companies such as ours and compliance costs generally have increased as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and cause a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If we do not attract and retain key employees, our business could be impaired. To be successful and achieve our objectives, we must attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel. If we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly at the management level, our business could be impaired. We have been successful in hiring and retaining key personnel in the past; however, we face significant competition for experienced, management level personnel. Although we believe have been successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced management personnel and scientists from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so in the future on acceptable terms. Failure to attract and retain personnel could prevent us from pursuing collaborations or developing our products or core technologies. The operation of international locations may increase operating expenses and divert management attention. Since 2000, we have conducted certain of our operations through Maxygen ApS, our Danish subsidiary. Although we are currently in the final stages of consolidating our operations in the United States, we will continue to conduct certain limited operations through Maxygen ApS until the consolidation is complete and may continue to conduct limited administrative activities through Maxygen ApS for the foreseeable future. As a result, we will continue to face certain risks related to the operation of a foreign subsidiary. Operation as an international entity requires additional management attention and resources. As long as we continue to operate internationally, we are subject to risks of doing business internationally, including compliance with foreign regulatory and legal requirements; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency exchange risks; and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, the consolidation of our operations has required us to transfer certain assets and functions from our Danish facility to our U.S. facility and hire additional employees in the United States. Any failure or delay in effectively transferring such assets or functions or hiring and integrating additional employees in the United States could hinder or delay the development of product candidates and research programs, which could adversely affect our business. We may also incur other material charges not currently contemplated due to events that may occur as a result of, or associated with, the consolidation that could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire businesses or technologies that complement our capabilities. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: • diversion of management time (both ours and that of the acquired company) from focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration during the period of negotiation through closing and further diversion of such time after closing; • decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; and • the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company in companies that before acquisition had been smaller, private companies. We do not have extensive experience in managing this integration process. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any or all of these acquisitions may not be realized. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could harm our business or adversely affect our results of operations. Future acquisitions may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Even if available, this financing may be dilutive. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading prices of life science company stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced significant price fluctuations in the last several years. During 2007, the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from $6.12 to $12.41. The valuations of many life science companies without product revenues and earnings, including ours, are based on valuation standards such as price to sales ratios and progress in product development or clinical trials. Trading prices based on these valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology or life science companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • our failure to meet our publicly announced revenue and/or expense projections and/or product development timetables; • adverse or inconclusive results or delays in preclinical development or clinical trials; • any entry into or material amendment or termination of a collaborative or license agreement; • any decisions to discontinue or delay development programs or clinical trials; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and life science industries; • changes in the market valuations of other biotechnology or life science companies; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes, terrorist acts and other factors; 28 Table of Contents • developments in or challenges relating to our patent or other proprietary rights, including lawsuits or proceedings alleging patent infringement based on the development, manufacturing or commercialization of our product candidates; and • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation. Substantial sales of shares may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our common stock trading volume is low and thus the market price of our common stock is particularly sensitive to trading volume. Our low trading volume may also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Significant sales of our common stock may adversely impact the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. If we or a collaborator receives regulatory approval for one of our drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. Any regulatory approvals that we or a collaborator receives for one of our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency approves any of our drug candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restriction on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. We may be subject to costly product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance. Because we conduct clinical trials in humans, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials, however, such liability insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any liabilities that arise from clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. We currently have no product marketing capabilities. We plan to commercialize products resulting from our proprietary programs either directly or through licensing to other companies or co-promotion with other companies. We have no experience in marketing, and we currently do not have the resources or capability to market products. In order for us to commercialize these products directly, we would need to develop, or obtain through outsourcing arrangements, the capability to market and sell products, which could require significant capital investment. We do not have these capabilities, and we may not be able to develop or otherwise obtain the requisite marketing and sales capabilities. If we are unable to successfully commercialize products resulting from our proprietary research efforts, we will continue to incur losses. The coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved drugs is uncertain and failure to obtain adequate coverage and reimbursement could limit our ability to market any drugs we may develop and decrease our ability to generate revenue. There is significant uncertainty related to the coverage and reimbursement of newly approved drugs. The commercial success of our potential drugs in both domestic and international markets is substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available for the ordering of our potential drugs by the medical profession for use by their patients. Medicare, Medicaid, health maintenance organizations and other third-party 29 Table of Contents payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new drugs, and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our potential drugs. They may not view our potential drugs as cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our potential drugs to be marketed on a competitive basis. Likewise, legislative or regulatory efforts to control or reduce healthcare costs or reform government healthcare programs could result in lower prices or rejection of our potential drugs. Changes in coverage and reimbursement policies or healthcare cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our drugs may cause any revenue from a potential drug to decline. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and may not make decisions that are in the best interests of all stockholders. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors, together with GlaxoSmithKline plc, controlled approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, and GlaxoSmithKline plc, which owns approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock, by itself, could exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders. In addition, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. This concentration of ownership could also depress our stock price. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results. Our U.S. facilities are located in our corporate headquarters in Redwood City, California near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 