ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s Common Stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in the Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. To achieve its past levels of growth, the Company has initiated internal growth programs and completed a number of acquisitions. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. If the Company is unable to manage its growth effectively, its operations could be negatively affected. Companies that experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • finding suitable markets for expansion; • finding suitable candidates for acquisition; • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage its growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within its organization, the Company must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of its business. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement its business strategy and successfully conduct its operations. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If the Company is unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate its acquired businesses, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and the Company may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that the Company is unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of its growth strategy may be lost. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company’s organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires and eliminate redundancies. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of the combined entity’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company’s management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate the entities it acquires into its existing operations may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect its business and earnings. The Company’s dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects it to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates and legislation that could require additional capital and could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 80% of the Company’s total loans as of December 31, 2007 consisted of loans included in the real estate loan portfolio. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by the Company. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase its allowance for credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $683.2 million or 21.7% of total loans in construction and land development loans. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If the Company is forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, it may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In December 2006, banking regulators issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial and real estate construction loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires institutions that exceed certain levels of real estate lending to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations if they do 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements not have appropriate risk management policies and practices in place. If there is any deterioration in the Company’s commercial mortgage or construction and land development portfolios or if its regulators conclude that the Company has not implemented appropriate risk management policies and practices, it could adversely affect the Company’s business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board or otherwise, can have a significant effect on the Company’s net interest income. The Company’s assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the primary markets in Texas in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Houston, Dallas and the central, north central, south central and southeast areas of Texas. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction and land development loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company’s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company’s expansion, growth and profitability. If the Company’s market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company would likely experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of its commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of its loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of its loan portfolio through its internal loan review process and other relevant factors. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements its loan portfolio, its historical loss experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or if it experiences significant loan losses, its current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. A material addition to the allowance could cause net income to decrease. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The Company’s small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company’s market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be negatively affected. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business and have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or breach in security of its communications or information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The business of the Company is dependent on technology and the Company’s inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, which may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision and changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, its subsidiary bank, and their respective operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of the Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Company. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors, of each class having staggered, three year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board and chief executive officer, the president, a majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company’s preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $112.9 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to the Company’s unconsolidated subsidiary trusts. The subsidiary trusts purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. Additionally, the Company has the right to defer periodic distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time the Company would be prohibited from paying dividends on its Common Stock. The Company’s ability to pay the future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Bank and dividends from the Bank to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 