Risk Factors Most of our revenue is attributable to Google and Yahoo!, and the loss of, or a payment dispute with, either of these search customers (or any future significant search customer) would harm our business and financial results. We rely on our ability to acquire rights to content from third-party content providers, whom we refer to as search customers, and our future success in our online search business is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain and renew relationships with these search customers. Google and Yahoo! jointly accounted for over 80%, 95%, and 95% of our total revenues in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and we expect that concentration will continue. Google, Yahoo!, and our other search customers are competitors of each other, and the way we do business with one of them may not be acceptable to one or more of their competitors with whom we also do business. This may result in Google, Yahoo!, or other search customers not renewing their agreements with us on favorable terms or at all. Google, Yahoo!, and other search customers are also our competitors in online search, and they have had relationships with some of our current and potential search distribution partners. In addition to competing with us on their own Web properties, our search customers may, in the future, contract directly with our distribution partners to provide online search services. If Google, Yahoo!, or any future significant search customer were to substantially reduce or eliminate the content it provides to us or to our distribution partners, our business results could materially suffer to the extent we are unable to establish and maintain new search customer relationships, or expand our remaining search customer relationships, to replace the lost or disputed revenue. We have recently entered into a new agreement with Yahoo! that will expire in December 2013. Our principal agreement with Google expires in April 2011 and we are in the process of negotiating terms for a new or extended agreement. If we are unable to renew our contract with Google before its expiration in April 2011 on terms similar to those in our current agreement, our business and financial results would be negatively impacted and could be materially harmed if we are unable to establish and maintain new search customer relationships, or expand our remaining search customer relationships, to replace the lost revenue. If any of our third-party content providers, including Yahoo! or Google, are unwilling to pay us amounts that it owes us, or dispute amounts it owes us or has paid to us for any reason (including for the reasons described in the risk factors below), our business and financial results could materially suffer to the extent we were unable to establish and maintain new search customer relationships, or expand our remaining search customer relationships, to replace the lost or disputed revenue. In addition, Yahoo! recently signed an agreement with Bing, under which Bing provides all of Yahoo!’s algorithmic search results and some of its paid search results. If Yahoo! cannot maintain an agreement with Bing on favorable terms, Yahoo!’s ability to provide us with algorithmic and paid search results may be impaired, and our operations and financial performance may be materially impacted as a result. Failure by us or our search distribution partners to comply with the guidelines promulgated by Google and Yahoo! relating to the use of content may cause that search customer to temporarily or permanently suspend the use of its content or terminate its agreement with us, or may require us to modify or terminate certain distribution relationships. If we or our search distribution partners fail to meet the guidelines promulgated by Google or Yahoo! for the use of their content, we may not be able to continue to use their content or provide the content to such distribution partners. Our agreements with Google and Yahoo! give them the ability to suspend the use and the distribution of their content for non-compliance with their requirements and guidelines and, in the case of breaches of certain other provisions of their agreements, to terminate their agreements with us immediately, regardless of whether such breaches could be cured. The terms of the search customer agreements with Google and Yahoo! and the related guidelines are subject to differing interpretations by the parties. Google and Yahoo! have in the past suspended, and may in the future, suspend their content provided to our websites or the websites of our distribution partners, without notice, when they believe that we or our distribution partners are not in compliance with their guidelines or are in breach of the 10 Table of Contents terms of their agreements. During such suspension we will not receive any revenue from any property, ours or our distribution partners’, affected by the suspended content, and the loss of such revenue could harm our business and financial results. Additionally, as our business evolves, we expect that the guidelines of Google and Yahoo!, as well as the parties’ interpretations of compliance, breach, and sufficient justification for suspension of use of content will change. These changes in the guidelines and the parties’ interpretations of those guidelines may result in restrictions on our use of the Google and Yahoo! search services, and may require us to terminate our agreement with distribution partners or forego entering into agreements with distribution partners. The loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners as a result of suspension, termination, or modification of distribution or search customer agreements, particularly our Google and Yahoo! agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. A substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on our relationships with a small number of distribution partners who distribute our online search services, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We rely on our relationships with online search distribution partners, including Internet service providers, Web portals, and software application providers, for distribution of our online search services. In 2010, 60% of our total revenues came from searches conducted by end users on the Web properties of our search distribution partners. If we had not purchased certain assets from Make The Web Better on April 1, 2010, and the revenue generated by those assets had remained owned by a search distribution partner, 66% of our total revenues in 2010 would have come from searches conducted by end users on the Web properties of our search distribution partners. We generated approximately 30%, 42%, and 23% of our total revenues through relationships with our top five distribution partners in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. There can be no assurance that these relationships will continue or will result in benefits to us that outweigh their cost. Moreover, as the proportion of our revenue generated by distribution partners has increased in previous quarters, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, less control and visibility over performance. One of our challenges is providing our distribution partners with relevant services at competitive prices in rapidly evolving markets. Distribution partners may create their own services or may seek to license services from our competitors or replace the services that we provide. Also, many of our distribution partners have limited operating histories and evolving business models that may prove unsuccessful even if our services are relevant and our prices competitive. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our distribution partners, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with most of our distribution partners come up for renewal in 2011 and 2012. In addition, some of our distributors have the right to immediately terminate their agreements in the event of certain breaches. Such agreements may be terminated, may not be renewed, or may not be renewed on favorable terms, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. We anticipate that our distribution costs for our revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners will increase as revenue grows, and may increase as a percentage of revenues to the extent that there are changes to existing arrangements or we enter into new arrangements on less favorable terms. In addition, competition continues for quality consumer traffic in the online search market. Recently, we have experienced increased competition from our search customers as they seek to enter into content provider agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Any difficulties that we experience with maintaining or strengthening our business relationships with our major distribution partners could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 11 Table of Contents If advertisers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic to their sites through their paid-per-click advertisements, they may reduce or eliminate their advertising through the Internet. Further, if Google, Yahoo!, or other search customers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic from our own websites or the Web property of a distribution partner, they may reduce the fees they pay to us. Either of these factors could have a negative material impact on our business and financial results. Most of our revenue from our online search business is based on the number of paid clicks on commercial search results served on our owned and operated Web properties or our distribution partners’ Web properties. Each time a user clicks on a commercial search result, the search customer that provided the commercial search result receives a fee from the advertiser who paid for the click and the search customer pays us a portion of that fee. If the click originated from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties, we share a portion of the fee we receive with such partner. If an advertiser receives what it perceives to be poor quality traffic, meaning that the advertiser’s objectives are met for an insufficient percentage of clicks for which it pays, the advertiser may reduce or eliminate its advertisements through the search customer that provided the commercial search result to us. This leads to a loss of revenue for our search customers and consequently fewer fees paid to us. Also, if a search customer perceives that the traffic originating from one of our Web properties or the Web property of a distribution partner is of poor quality, the search customer may discount the amount it charged all advertisers whose paid click advertisements appeared on such website or Web property based on the amount of poor quality traffic the search customer deems to have been generated, and accordingly may reduce the fees it would have otherwise paid us. The search customer may also suspend or terminate our ability to provide its content through such websites or Web properties if such activities are not modified to satisfy the search customer’s concerns. The payment of fewer fees to us or the inability to provide content through such websites or Web properties, particularly the content of Google and Yahoo!, could have a material negative effect on our business and financial results. Poor quality traffic may be a result of invalid click activity. Such invalid click activity occurs, for example, when a person or automated click generation program clicks on a commercial search result to generate fees for the Web property displaying the commercial search result rather than to view the Web page underlying the commercial search result. Some of this invalid click activity is referred to as “click fraud.” When such invalid click activity is detected, the search customer may not charge the advertiser or may refund the fee paid by the advertiser for such invalid clicks. If the invalid click activity originated from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties or our owned and operated properties, such non-charge or refund of the fees paid by the advertisers in turn reduces the amount of fees the search customer pays us. The resulting loss of revenue, particularly with respect to Google or Yahoo! content, could harm our business and financial results. Initiatives we undertake to improve the quality of the traffic that we send to our search customers may not be successful and, even if successful, may result in loss of revenue in a given reporting period. For example, during the first half of 2010, we removed certain traffic from some distribution partners in an effort to improve traffic quality, and these actions, while successful in improving traffic quality, had a material negative impact on our revenues for the first and second quarters of 2010. A significant part of our growth strategy involves identifying, acquiring, or developing and successfully integrating businesses or technologies, some or all of which may not be complementary to our current operations or leverage our current infrastructure and operational experience. Our financial and operating results will suffer if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions. An important component of our strategy for future growth is to identify, acquire, or develop and successfully integrate new businesses or technologies into InfoSpace. For example, as a result of our May 2010 acquisition of certain assets of Mercantila, Inc., we began operating an online retail business that includes a collection of more than 200 specialty online retail stores. We may be unable to identify acceptable targets for acquisition or development. If we are successful in identifying targets, those targets may not be complementary to our current Core search or E-Commerce operations and may not leverage our existing infrastructure or 12 Table of Contents operational experience. Further, competition for acquisitions has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As a result, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, any such acquisition may not prove successful. In the past, our financial results have suffered significantly due to impairment charges of goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior acquisitions. Acquisitions or development of new businesses or technologies may involve the use of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of stock, the potential incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets. If outside financing is needed, we may be unable to obtain it on acceptable terms, or at all, in light of the current capital market conditions or other factors. The cost of development or acquisition, as the case may be, may be greater than anticipated by us or investors. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems and management, and other personnel of acquired companies that result in unanticipated costs, delays, or allocation of resources; • the dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of issuances of stock, as well as, incurring operating losses and the amortization of intangible assets for the acquired business; • stock volatility due to the perceived value of the acquired business by investors; • diverting management’s attention from current operations and other business concerns, including potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • disruption of our ongoing business or the ongoing acquired business, including impairment of existing relationships with our employees, distributors, suppliers, or customers or those of the acquired companies; • diversion of capital from other uses; • failing to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all; • difficulties in acquiring foreign companies, including risks related to integrating operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • adverse outcome of litigation matters or other contingent liabilities assumed in or arising out of the acquisitions. Developing or acquiring a technology, service, or business, and then integrating that technology, service, or business into InfoSpace, will be complex, time consuming, and expensive, particularly if we acquire a technology, service, or business that is not in our current industries of online search and online retail. For example, the successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we: retain key personnel; maintain and support preexisting supplier, distribution, and customer relationships; and integrate accounting and support functions. The complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and, in the case of an acquisition, the disparate corporate cultures and/or industries being combined, may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired technology or business. If our integration of acquired or internally developed technologies or businesses is not successful, we may experience adverse financial or competitive effects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the short- or long-term value of any technology or business that we develop or acquire will be equal to the value of the cash and other consideration that we paid or expenses we incurred. 13 Table of Contents Our new E-Commerce business is subject to many risks. Our E-Commerce business is still in development, and we cannot ensure that it will succeed. We intend to offer additional types of products or related online retail services through our E-Commerce sites, but cannot provide assurance that any of them will be successful or that their failure will not result in harm to our overall business. The additions and modifications to our business as a result of our expansion into online retail have increased the complexity of our business. Future additions to or modifications of our business are likely to have similar effects. We may not be able to manage growth in our E-Commerce business effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth in other areas, and negatively affect our operating results. Our new E-Commerce business is subject to a number of additional risks, including the following risks and risks described elsewhere in this Item 1A, among others: • the risk that we will be unable to attract and retain customers cost-effectively, which would harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. Because much of our current E-Commerce business is based on one-time transactions with customers for relatively high-priced items, we must constantly acquire new customers. We rely on relationships with online services, search engines, affiliate marketing websites, directories, and other websites and online retail businesses to host and provide content, advertising banners, and other links that direct customers to our E-Commerce websites, and if we are unable to develop or maintain these relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed; • the risk that we may owe back taxes and penalties in the event that states in which we do not currently remit sales tax successfully assert that we are required to remit sales tax on products we sell to consumers in those states. If we are forced to remit sales tax for products sold in a particular jurisdiction, we may also be required to increase product prices for customers in that jurisdiction, which could impair our ability to compete for those customers (particularly for sales of higher value items) and harm our revenue; • the risk that we will fail to detect and sufficiently control credit card fraud, which could reduce our net revenues and our gross profit percentage; • the risk of product liability claims, which could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, decreased sales, damage to our brands, and have material adverse effects on our business, financial position, and operating results, particularly if the claim exceeds our or the vendor’s insurance coverage or the vendor lacks the financial ability or willingness to properly indemnify us for the claim; • the risk of a significant number of merchandise returns, which could harm our business, reputation, and results of operations, and the risk that any change to returns policies intended to reduce the number of product returns may result in customer dissatisfaction, fewer initial sales, and fewer repeat customers; and • other risks associated with acquisitions. If we do not address these and other risks timely and effectively, our E-Commerce business may not succeed. We rely substantially on third-party relationships for our E-Commerce business. If these relationships do not continue on favorable terms, or if the third parties do not perform in the manner we expect, our business will suffer. We rely on our relationships with independent product vendors for the products that we offer for sale on our E-Commerce websites. Our business will suffer if we are unable to develop and maintain relationships with product vendors that allow us to obtain sufficient quantities of merchandise on acceptable commercial terms and in a timely manner. We have relationships with thousands of vendors for the products we offer for sale on our 14 Table of Contents websites. We depend on our vendors to provide almost all of the products we sell, as we do not generally keep products we sell in inventory. If we do not maintain our existing relationships or build new relationships with vendors on acceptable commercial terms, we may be unable to maintain a broad selection of merchandise. We generally do not have long-term supply agreements, price guarantees, or exclusive arrangements with our vendors. As a result, we cannot guarantee high levels of product quality and selection at competitive prices because our vendors generally do not have a continuing obligation to provide us with merchandise at historical levels or prices or at all. In most cases, our relationships with our suppliers do not restrict the suppliers from selling their inventory to other traditional or online merchandise liquidators or retailers, which could in turn limit the selection of products available on our websites, particularly during peak seasons for those products. In addition, we rely upon third-party delivery services for the shipment of products to customers. These relationships may not continue on terms we find acceptable, or at all, if our relationships with third-party delivery services are terminated or impaired, or if these third parties are unable to deliver products for us because of labor issues, deteriorating financial or business conditions, natural disasters, or any other reason, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our customers. In any of these circumstances, we may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis, upon terms we find acceptable, or at all. In addition, third-party delivery services may not ship to our customers on a timely and consistent basis. Unexpected increases in shipping costs, delivery times, or damaged products could harm our business, reputation, and financial condition and results of operations. We also have agreements with third-party service providers to provide processing and administrative functions with respect to our E-Commerce call center, warehouse, email and online marketing, search engine optimization, and other areas. Services provided by third parties could be interrupted as a result of many factors, such as natural disasters, failures of the providers’ technology or personnel, or inability to manage peak demand during busy seasons. Failure by third parties to provide us with these services on a timely basis and within our service level expectations could harm our business. In addition, to the extent we are unable to maintain our outsourcing arrangements, we may incur substantial costs to either bring those services in-house or transition them to other providers, which may not be successful. In the interim, we could face significant losses in revenue due to decreased ability to market, accept, or fulfill orders. We have a history of incurring net losses, we may incur net losses in the future, and we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Although we generated net income in our last two years, we have incurred net losses on an annual basis for all but five of the years since our inception, and as of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.0 billion. We may incur net losses in the future, including but not limited to losses resulting from our operations, loss on investments, the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, losses from acquisitions, restructuring charges, or expense related to stock-based compensation and other equity awards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and maintain consistent profitability in the future. Our financial results are likely to continue to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to continue to be volatile or decline. Our financial results have varied on a quarterly basis and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Many factors could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate materially, including but not limited to: • changes or potential changes in our relationships with Google or Yahoo! or future significant search customers, such as effects of changes to their requirements or guidelines or their measurement of the quality of traffic we send to their advertiser networks, and any resulting loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners; • the loss, termination, or reduction in scope of key distribution relationships in our search business, for example, as a result of distribution partners licensing content directly from content providers, or any 15 Table of Contents suspension by our search customers (particularly Google and Yahoo!) of the right to use or distribute content on the Web properties of our distribution partners; • our strategic initiatives and our ability to implement those initiatives in a cost effective manner; • the mix of search revenue generated by our owned and operated Web properties versus our distribution partners’ Web properties (for example, such as the improvement in our financial results for the second quarter of 2010 that resulted from our acquisition of certain assets including Web properties from Make The Web Better, a distribution partner, in April 2010); • the mix of revenues generated by our Core search business and our E-Commerce business versus other businesses we develop or acquire; • our ability to attract and retain quality traffic; • litigation expenses, including but not limited to settlement costs; • expenses incurred in finding, negotiating, consummating, and integrating acquisitions; • variable demand for our products and services, rapidly evolving technologies and markets, and consumer preferences; • the effects of acquisitions by us, our search customers, or our distribution partners; • increases in the costs or availability of content for our search services or the costs or availability of products for our E-Commerce business; • additional restructuring charges we may incur in the future; • seasonality of our E-Commerce business; • the continuing impact of the economic downturn, which has in the past led to and may in the future lead to lower online advertising spend by advertisers and decreases in discretionary consumer spending, resulting in lower revenue per click for paid searches and decreased revenue or slower revenue growth from our E-Commerce sites (particularly since we offer many products that consumers may view as discretionary items rather than necessities); • changes in commodity prices affecting our E-Commerce business, which may increase our vendors’ costs and, as a result, our costs for acquiring the products we sell; • changes in energy costs, which may increase our shipping costs in our E-Commerce business, particularly since many of the products we sell have high shipping costs that are particularly susceptible to additional costs resulting from increases in energy prices; • new court rulings, or the adoption of new laws, rules, or regulations, that adversely affect our ability to acquire content and distribute our search services, that affect our ability to operate our E-Commerce business or offer non-search products and services, or that otherwise increase our potential liability; • impairment in the value of long-lived assets or the value of acquired assets, including goodwill, core technology, and acquired contracts and relationships; • the effect of changes in accounting principles or in our accounting treatment of revenues or expenses; and • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards. For these reasons, among others, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast our future performance. Furthermore, our fluctuating operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and financial results volatility could make us less attractive to investors, either of which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. 16 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Between January 8, 2008, which was the date that we paid our most recent special dividend, and December 31, 2010, our stock price ranged from $5.20 to $12.52. On February 25, 2011, the closing price of our common stock was $8.05. Our stock price could decline or fluctuate wildly in response to many factors, including the other risks discussed in this Item 1A and the following, among others: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, dispositions, charges, changes in or loss of material contracts, new search customers, new distribution partner relationships, or other business developments by us, our search customers, distribution partners, or competitors; • conditions or trends in the online search services or online retail markets; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets; • announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • disclosures of any accounting issues, such as restatements or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • equity offerings resulting in the dilution of stockholders; • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards; and • announcements or publicity relating to litigation and similar matters. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for Internet and technology company securities in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors and general economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our stock price. Our stock has been subject to such price and volume fluctuations in the recent past. Often, class action litigation has been instituted against companies after periods of volatility in the overall market and in the price of such companies’ stock. If such litigation were to be instituted against us, even if we were to prevail, it could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention and resources. If we are unable to hire, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain, and motivate highly skilled management, technical, sales and marketing, and corporate development personnel. Qualified personnel with experience relevant to our online search and E-Commerce businesses are scarce and competition to recruit them is intense. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting our search customers or expanding our business. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment and may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis. We have experienced significant changes at our executive management level and we may experience more changes in the future. Changes of management or key employees may cause disruption to our operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results or delay achievement of our business objectives. In addition, if we lose the services of one or more key employees and are unable to recruit and retain a suitable successor(s), we may not be able to successfully and timely manage our business or achieve our business objectives. For example, the success of our search business is partially 17 Table of Contents dependent on key personnel who have long-term relationships with our search customers and distribution partners, and the success of our new E-Commerce business is dependent on the knowledge, experience, and relationships of the key leadership personnel who joined us in the acquisition of the Mercantila, Inc. assets. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees. In light of current market conditions, the value of stock options or restricted stock units granted to employees may cease to provide sufficient incentive to our employees. Like many technology companies, we use stock options, restricted stock units, and other equity-based awards to recruit technology professionals and senior level employees. We now issue only restricted stock units to employees, other than executives and selected employees, because stock options are not currently seen as providing enough incentive to attract or retain employees. With respect to those employees to whom we issue options, we face a significant challenge in retaining them if the value of these stock options (together with the value of any restricted stock units) is either not substantial enough or so substantial that the employee leaves after their stock options or restricted stock units have vested. If our stock price does not increase significantly above the exercise prices of our options, we may need to issue new options, in order to motivate and retain our executives; or if option programs become impracticable, we may need to issue other equity incentives or increase other forms of compensation. We may undertake or seek stockholder approval to undertake other equity-based programs to retain our employees, which may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any such programs we undertake, including the restricted stock unit awards, will be successful in motivating and retaining our employees. Our online search services may expose us to claims relating to how the content was obtained, distributed, or displayed. Our online search services link users, either directly through our own websites or indirectly through the Web properties of our distribution partners, to third-party Web pages and content in response to search queries and other requests. These services could expose us to legal liability from claims relating to such third-party content and sites, the manner in which these services are distributed and displayed by us or our distribution partners, or how the content provided by our search customers was obtained or provided by our search customers. Such claims could include the following: infringement of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, or other intellectual property or proprietary rights; violation of privacy and publicity rights; unfair competition; defamation; providing false or misleading information; obscenity; pornography; and illegal gambling. Regardless of the legal merits of any such claims, they could result in costly litigation, be time consuming to defend, and divert management’s attention and resources. If there was a determination that we had violated third-party rights or applicable law, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements (if available), or be required to change our business practices. We may also have an obligation to indemnify and hold harmless certain of our search customers or distribution partners from damages they suffer for such violations under our contracts with them. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to such claims could require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our services. As a result, these claims could result in material harm to our business. In the past, there have been legal actions brought or threatened against distributors of downloadable applications deemed to be “adware” or “spyware.” Additionally, certain bills are pending and some laws have been passed in certain jurisdictions setting forth requirements that must be met before a downloadable application is downloaded to an end user’s computer. We provide downloadable applications to promote use of our search services for our owned and operated search services. Such applications may be considered adware. We also partner with some distribution partners that provide adware to their users if the partners adhere to our strict guidelines requiring them, among other things, to disclose to the user what the adware does and to obtain the consent of the user before the application is downloaded. The adware must also be easy to uninstall. We also review the downloadable application the partner proposes to use before we distribute our results to them. We also 18 Table of Contents have the right to audit our partners and, if we find that they are not following our guidelines, we can terminate our agreement with them or cease providing content to that downloadable application. Some partners have not been able to meet the new guidelines imposed by us or some of our search customers, and we no longer provide the applicable content or any content, as the case may be, to such partners or certain of their downloadable applications. We work closely with some of our major search customers to try to identify potential distribution partners that do not meet our guidelines or are in breach of our distribution agreements and we work with our distribution partners to ensure they deliver quality traffic. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we implement to reduce our exposure to claims that certain ways in which the content is distributed violate legal requirements will be successful. Any claims against us as a result of violations of legal requirements or contractual obligations could result in material harm to our business. Our website and transaction management software, data center systems, or the systems of the third-party co-location facilities in which they are located could fail or become unavailable, which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues and current or potential customers, and cause us to breach agreements with our partners. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability or unreliability of our websites, transaction processing systems, or network infrastructure could reduce our sales and impair our ability to properly process transactions. We use internally developed and third-party systems for our websites and certain aspects of transaction processing. Some of our systems, particularly in our E-Commerce business, are relatively new and untested, and thus may be subject to failure or unreliability. Any system unavailability or unreliability may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in customer satisfaction, additional expense, impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment, or delays in reporting accurate financial information. We provide our own data center services for our online search business from two geographically diverse third-party co-location facilities. Although the two data centers provide some redundancy, not all of our systems and operations have backup redundancy. Our E-Commerce infrastructure is partially hosted in a separate co-location facility that has system redundancy but not location redundancy, and partially hosted on a cloud-based system that has full redundancy. Our systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, break-in, or other events beyond our control. We could face significant damage as a result of these events, and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all the losses that may occur. In addition, such third-party co-location facilities and data center systems use sophisticated equipment, infrastructure, and software that may contain bugs or suffer outages that could interrupt service. During the period in which service is unavailable, we will be unable or severely limited in our ability to generate revenues, and we may also be exposed to liability from those third parties to whom we provide services through our data centers. For these reasons, our business and financial results could be materially harmed if our systems and operations are damaged or interrupted, including if we are unable to develop, or if we or our third-party co-location facility providers are unable to successfully manage, the infrastructure necessary to meet current or future demands for reliability and scalability of our systems. If the volume of traffic to our E-Commerce websites or to search services infrastructure increases substantially, we must respond in a timely fashion by expanding our systems, which may entail upgrading our technology, transaction processing systems, and network infrastructure. Our ability to support our expansion and upgrade requirements may be constrained due to our business demands or constraints of our third-party co-location facility providers. Due to the number of our customers and the services that we offer, we could experience periodic capacity constraints which may cause temporary unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service, and limit our ability to develop, offer, or release new or enhanced products and services. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our search services or we fail to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. 19 Table of Contents The security measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store may be breached. Security breaches may pose risks to the uninterrupted operation of our systems and could cause us to breach agreements with our customers and distribution partners, expose us to mitigation costs, litigation, potential investigation and penalties by authorities, potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed, and damage our reputation. Our networks or those from third parties that we use may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, rogue employees or contractors, or other persons, computer viruses, and other disruptive problems. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our E-Commerce customers and website visitors, using technology and networks provided by third parties to provide the security and authentication used to transmit confidential information, including payment information. Subscribers to some of our online search services are required to provide information that may be considered to be personally identifiable or private information. Unauthorized access to, and abuse of, this information could result in significant harm to our business. We take, and we believe our third-party providers take, reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity, and confidentiality of the information that is collected and stored, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required under existing and proposed laws to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed. We also may be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation, and penalties by regulatory authorities, and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed, or other persons or companies who suffer damages as a result of unauthorized disclosure. Any such claims could result in costly litigation or liability, be time consuming to resolve, damage our reputation, and divert the attention and resources of management and other personnel. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating problems caused by breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement and improve our security measures, persons may be able to circumvent the measures that we implement in the future. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays, or cessation of service to users accessing our services, any of which could harm our business and financial results. We may be subject to liability for our use or distribution of information that we gather or receive from third parties and indemnity protections or insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. We obtain content and commerce information from third parties. When we distribute this information, we may be liable for the data that is contained in that content. This could subject us to legal liability for such things as defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy or publicity rights, and product or service liability, among others. Laws or regulations of certain jurisdictions may also deem some content illegal, which may expose us to legal liability as well. We also gather personal information from users in order to provide personalized services. Gathering and processing this personal information may subject us to legal liability for, among other things, negligence, defamation, invasion of privacy, or product or service liability. We are also subject to laws and regulations, both in the United States and abroad, regarding the collection and use of end user information and search related data. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be exposed to legal liability. Although the agreements by which we obtain content contain indemnity provisions, these provisions may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or the party giving the indemnity may not have the financial resources to cover the claim. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made against us. Any liability that we incur as a result of content we receive from third parties could harm our financial results. 20 Table of Contents If others claim that our services infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer our services, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation, or stop marketing and licensing our services. Companies and individuals with rights relating to the Internet, software, and application services industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademarks, trade secret rights, intellectual property or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy or publicity rights. Responding to any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention, cause product or service release delays, require us to redesign our services, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Our technology and intellectual property may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could suffer. We do not regularly conduct patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our services infringes patents held by third parties. Patent searches may not return every issued patent that may be deemed relevant to a particular product or service. It is therefore difficult to determine, with any level of certainty, whether a particular product or service may be construed as infringing a U.S. or foreign patent. Because patent applications in the United States are not immediately publicly disclosed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our services that may not be discovered in a patent search. In addition, other companies, as well as research and academic institutions, have conducted research for many years in the search technology field, and this research could lead to the filing of further patent applications or affect filed applications. If we were to discover that our services violated or potentially violated third-party proprietary rights, we might be required to obtain licenses that are costly or contain terms unfavorable to us, or expend substantial resources to reengineer those services so that they would not violate such third-party rights. Any reengineering effort may not be successful, and any such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any third-party infringement claims against us could result in costly litigation or liability and be time consuming to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays, or require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. We rely heavily on our technology and intellectual property, but we may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, thus weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our business and financial results. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, which can be time consuming, expensive, and difficult to predict. To protect our rights in our services and technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. We also rely on laws pertaining to trademarks and domain names to protect the value of our corporate brands and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our services or technology, or obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise violate or infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that others could independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, or if others independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our services and technology is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary assets. The efforts 21 Table of Contents we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective, and unauthorized parties may obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary, copy aspects of our services, or use similar marks or domain names. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Our intellectual property may be subject to even greater risk in foreign jurisdictions, as protection is not sought or obtained in every country in which our services and technology are available and it is often more difficult and costly to enforce our rights in foreign jurisdictions. Moreover, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and intellectual property developed for us by our employees or contractors in foreign jurisdictions may not be as protected as if created in the United States. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of others’ proprietary rights which are sometimes not clear or may change. Litigation can be time consuming, expensive, and difficult to predict. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents that could have an anti-takeover effect include: • the classification of our board of directors into three groups so that directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors; • the requirement for supermajority approval by stockholders for certain business combinations; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote by stockholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend or repeal the bylaws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • limitations on stockholders’ ability to call special stockholder meetings; • advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock designed to preserve our federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). On July 19, 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of August 9, 2002. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity. In addition, at our 2009 annual meeting, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation that restricts any person or entity from attempting to transfer our stock, without prior permission from the Board of Directors, to the extent that such transfer would (i) create or result in an individual or entity becoming a five-percent shareholder of our stock, or (ii) increase the stock ownership percentage of any existing 22 Table of Contents five-percent shareholder. This amendment provides that any transfer that violates its provisions shall be null and void and would require the purported transferee to, upon demand by the Company, transfer the shares that exceed the five percent limit to an agent designated by the Company for the purpose of conducting a sale of such excess shares. The stockholder rights plan and the amendment to the certificate of incorporation would make the acquisition of the Company more expensive to the acquirer and could significantly delay, discourage, or prevent third parties from acquiring the Company without the approval of our board of directors. If there is change in our ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to utilize our NOLs may be severely limited or potentially eliminated. As of December 31, 2010, we had NOLs of approximately $788 million that will expire over a ten to twenty year period. If we were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of a company’s common stock over a three-year rolling period), then under certain conditions, the amount of NOLs we could use in any one year could be limited to an amount equal to our market capitalization, net of substantial non-business assets, at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. Our certificate of incorporation imposes certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock that we expect will assist us in preventing a change of ownership and preserving our NOLs, but there can be no assurance that these restrictions will be sufficient. If we are unable to use our NOLs before they expire, or if the use of this tax benefit is severely limited or eliminated by a change of ownership, there could be a material reduction in the amount of after-tax income and cash flow from operations, and it could have an effect on our ability to engage in certain transactions. Restructuring and streamlining our business, including implementing reductions in workforce, discretionary spending, and other expense reductions, may harm our business. We have in the past and may in the future find it advisable to take measures to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including, without limitation, reducing our workforce or discontinuing products or businesses. Such measures may place significant strains on our management and employees, and could impair our development, marketing, sales, and customer support efforts. We may also incur liabilities from these measures, including liabilities from early termination or assignment of contracts, potential failure to meet obligations due to loss of employees or resources, and resulting litigation. Such effects from restructuring and streamlining could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. RISKS RELATED TO THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE We may be unable to compete successfully in the online search and online retail markets. We face intense competition in the online search and online retail markets, both of which are extremely competitive and rapidly changing. In addition, the retail business for the products we sell on our E-Commerce sites has few barriers to entry. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures, greater brand recognition, better access to vendors, or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product and service offerings more rapidly, adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in search customer and distribution partner requirements more quickly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. Our competitors in the online retail business include general merchandise retailers and specialty retailers with an online presence, brick-and-mortar stores (both national and local), or both, as well as our own vendors selling direct to consumers or through other retailers. Some of the companies we compete with in online search are currently search customers of ours, the loss of any of which could harm our business. In addition, we may face increasing competition for search market share from new search startups, mobile search providers, and social media sites and applications. If we are unable to match or 23 Table of Contents exceed our competitors’ product offerings, marketing reach, and customer service experience, our business may not be successful. Because of these competitive factors and due to our relatively small size and financial resources, we may be unable to compete successfully in the online search and online retail markets and, to the extent that these competitive factors apply to other markets that we pursue, in such other markets. Additionally, our business and financial results could be adversely affected if our search distribution partners create their own services that compete or replace the services we provide or they acquire such services from other sources. We continue to experience increased competition from search customers seeking to enter into agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Consolidation in the industries in which we operate could lead to increased competition and loss of customers. The Internet industry (including online search and retail) has experienced substantial consolidation. This consolidation may continue. These acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including the following: • search customers could acquire or be acquired by one of our other search customers, enter into new business relationships with each other, and stop licensing content to us or gain additional negotiating leverage in their relationships with us; • our search distribution partners could acquire or be acquired by one of our competitors and terminate their relationship with us; • our search distribution partners could merge with each other, which could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms; and • competitors in online search or retail (including both brick-and-mortar and Internet retail) could improve their competitive positions through strategic acquisitions or new business relationships with each other. Consolidation in the Internet industry could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, and create potential liability. The growth and development of the Internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the Internet, in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Application of these laws can be unclear. For example, it is unclear how many existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses (such as gambling, online auctions, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, tobacco, firearms, insurance, securities brokerage, or legal services) apply to online search services, online advertising, and our business. The costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets (including limiting our ability to distribute our products and services; conduct targeted advertising; collect, use, or transfer user information; or comply with new data security requirements), expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. It is impossible to predict whether or when any new legislation may be adopted or existing legislation or regulatory requirements will be deemed applicable to us, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) requirements, or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by the FTC or others, including potential class action litigation, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results 24 Table of Contents of operations, and financial condition. For example, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the U.S. Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy and data protection issues related to our businesses. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted and certain proposals, if adopted, could materially and adversely affect our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we ceased operation of www.haggle.com (“Haggle”), a competitive shopping website, and transferred user accounts and certain assets and liabilities to a competing website. We may face certain risks relating to the previous operation or shutdown of Haggle. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions have regulations regarding auctions and may attempt to claim those regulations applied to Haggle. In addition, we understand that some academics and others have suggested that prepaid bidding fee auctions resemble games of chance and/or gambling. We believe that the results of Haggle auctions depended on the skill of the participants and are thus not subject to such laws. If lawmakers or regulators were to decide that bidding fee auctions are games of chance or constitute gambling, or are subject to auction laws, we could become subject to various federal and state penalties. In addition, we may be subject to legal claims from former Haggle users unhappy with the operation or shutdown of Haggle or with the operation of the competing website to which user accounts were transferred. The FTC has recommended that search engine providers delineate paid-ranking search results from non-paid results. To the extent that we are required to modify presentation of search results as a result of specific regulations or requirements that may be issued in the future by the FTC or other state or federal agencies or legislative bodies with respect to the nature of such delineation or other aspects of advertising in connection with online search services, revenue from the affected search engines could be negatively impacted. With respect to our E-Commerce business, we must comply with regulations governing online promotions and the taxation of items sold online and the taxation of Internet commerce. Addressing these regulations may require us to develop additional technology or otherwise expend significant time and expense. Due to the nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate Internet transmissions, through data protection laws amongst others, or institute proceedings for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. We rely on the infrastructure of the Internet networks, over which we have no control and the failure of which could substantially undermine our operations. Our success depends, in large part, on other companies maintaining the Internet system infrastructure. In particular, we rely on other companies to maintain a reliable network backbone that provides adequate speed, data capacity, and security and to develop services that enable reliable Internet access and services. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use, and amount of data transmitted, the Internet system infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it, and the Internet’s performance or reliability may suffer as a result of this continued growth. Some of the companies that we rely upon to maintain network infrastructure may lack sufficient capital to take the necessary steps to support such demands or their long-term operations. The failure of the Internet infrastructure would substantially undermine our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Table of Contents 