ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 15 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Our Business and Operations. As a result of operating losses, the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm expresses substantial doubt, about our ability to continue as a going concern. In each of the past three years we have experienced substantial net losses (net losses of EUR 4,335,000 in 2010, EUR 29,324,000 in 2011 and EUR 2,308,000 in 2012). At December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of EUR 174,000 and a working capital deficit of EUR 2,416,000. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and has modified its report in the form of an explanatory paragraph describing the events that have given rise to this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern is based on our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis and ultimately to attain profitable operations. Since December 31, 2011, most of the directors on our former Board of Directors have been removed and replaced by new directors. In addition, in December 2011 our prior Chief Executive Officer was indefinitely suspended (he was officially terminated in March 2012) and our Chief Financial Officer was terminated on December 15, 2011. As a result, as of early in 2012 Private Media is under new management. Our new officers and directors have attempted to address the prior net losses, the large amount of outstanding indebtedness, our working capital deficit and our need for additional working capital. Among other things, since the beginning of 2012, new management has repaid EUR 8,000,000 of indebtedness in shares of the Company’s new 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, has restructured our defaulted EUR 1,000,000 bank credit facility, has raised EUR 800,000 of working capital through loans from three non-affiliated lenders, has reduced the Company’s overhead by reducing the number of employees at December 31, 2012 to 38 and closing an office (which actions are collectively expected to provide estimated savings of EUR 741,000 annually), and has settled the two lawsuits that have burdened the Company’s financial resources and distracted the Company from its operations. These actions have improved the Company’s balance sheet and have reduced the Company’s ongoing operating expenses. In addition, in order to redirect the Company’s focus back to its historic business and geographic market, in 2012 new management also divested the Company of the Game Link and Sureflix operations that former management acquired in 2009. While the divestment of the Game Link and Sureflix companies has resulted in a significant decrease in new sales and has reduced the Company’s total assets, new management believes that the distraction caused by these distant operations and by the different product offerings (for example, the Company has not historically engaged in the gay media distribution market that was the focus of Sureflix) will improve the Company’s longer term operations and net profits. No assurance can, however, be given that these and other on-going changes will improve the Company’s future operations or that the Company will not continue to incur significant losses in the future. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to operate profitably in the future. Our future capital requirements and needs for additional financing are uncertain. Although we expect that our available cash resources and cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months based upon our present plan of operation, we believe that we may need to raise additional funds to (i) repay some legacy liabilities Private Media incurred under prior management, and (ii) to support new management’s modified business and growth plans and any unanticipated capital requirements. If we cannot obtain the additional financing that we have projected that we believe we will need to support our growing operations and to fully implement our plan of operations, our future operations will be hindered, and our ability to grow and become profitable will be jeopardized. In addition, if adequate funds are not available to us, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, maintain the scope of our operations or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, all of which could harm our business. We have not identified the sources for the additional financing that we intend to obtain, and we do not have commitments from any third parties to provide this financing. There can be no assurance that sufficient funding will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Any additional equity funding that we obtain will reduce the percentage ownership held by our existing security holders. Our business is highly competitive, and we risk losing significant market share and revenues if we are unable to effectively compete. We operate in an extremely competitive market. We compete with a number of other businesses that offer various adult-oriented publications or media products, including Playboy Enterprises, Inc., Vivid Entertainment, Larry Flynt Publications, Inc. (Hustler and New Frontier), and Manwin. Many of our competitors have significantly greater market presence, name recognition and financial and technical resources than we do. In addition, these companies may develop products or services that are more attractive to our target market than our products or services and/or they may be more successful than us in marketing their products or services. We believe 16 Table of Contents that the adult entertainment market will continue to shift towards the use of explicit sexual content, our principal market, resulting in increased competition in this area of our business. In our internet business, we compete with other adult media websites as to the content of their programming and for subscription fees from subscribers and users. In addition, the growing availability of free adult entertainment through free websites has resulted in additional pressure on our business, which has adversely affected revenues and margins. Free content on the Internet and competition from the “tube sites” is increasing competition for our products and is changing the dynamics of the marketplace for our products. Demand for Private Media’s paid products is being significantly impacted by the availability of free adult entertainment available on the Internet in general and at the “YouTube-like” adult video sites that are commonly known as “tube sites.” The “tube sites” feature free adult videos, some of which consist of unlicensed, or pirated, excerpts of professionally produced adult movies (including at times pirated versions of Private Media’s proprietary videos). The availability of these free adult videos has diminished the demand for Private Media’s paid video offerings on our proprietary website and for our other products, and has diluted the market presence of our website. The tube sites have materially affected the revenues we generate from our website and other product offerings. It is uncertain what affect these tube sites and other free internet adult websites will have on our on-going operations and our future financial results. No assurance can be given that we will be able to effectively compete against the tube sites and other internet products. The market for our adult oriented products is changing rapidly, and unless we are able to anticipate these changes and rapidly adapt, we will lose market share. The adult entertainment sector is seeing rapid declines in its core business (i.e. DVD and magazine sales) as consumer consumption of adult content has shifted from physical media to digital distribution. Online usage itself is changing rapidly as technological advancements allow the deployment of more advanced and interactive multimedia services. In addition, multiple new mobile smartphone technologies and capabilities are adding new distribution venues for digital content. As a result of these new digital distribution channels, we have to rapidly develop new business models, products and distribution models that will allow us to otherwise capitalize on our large library of titles that we own. The free internet adult video offerings and the new mobile telephony offerings have affected sales of our print publications and our DVD sales. Unless we are able to effectively modify our business model to compete with the products offered digitally on the Internet or elsewhere, our market share, revenues and profits from our product offerings could decrease. Although we are currently deploying new mobile phone and smart television products, no assurance can be given that we will remain competitive in the rapidly changing adult entertainment marketplace. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of our consumers. Our business involves the provision of sexually explicit content which can create negative publicity, lawsuits and boycotts. We are engaged in the business of providing adult-oriented, sexually explicit products worldwide. Many people regard our primary business as unwholesome. Various national and local governments, along with religious and children’s advocacy groups, consistently propose and enact legislation to restrict the provision of, access to, and content of such entertainment. These groups also often file lawsuits against providers of adult entertainment, encourage boycotts against such providers and mount negative publicity campaigns. In this regard, our magazines, and some of our distribution outlets and advertisers, have from time-to-time been the target of groups who seek to limit the availability of our products because of their content. We expect to continue to be subject to these activities. The adult-oriented content of our websites may also subject us to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. We may also be subject to claims based upon the content that is available on our websites through links to other sites and in jurisdictions that we have not previously distributed content in. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our websites and/or their availability in various geographic areas, which could negatively impact their ability to generate revenue. In addition, some investors, investment banks, market makers, lenders and others in the investment community may refuse to participate in the market for our common stock, financings or other activities due to the nature of our primary business. These refusals may negatively impact the value of our common stock and our opportunities to attract market support. 17 Table of Contents We face online security risks in connection with our Internet business. Online security breaches could materially adversely affect our business. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter use of the Internet in general or use of the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials in particular. In offering online payment services, we rely on technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information, such as consumer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of data encryption or other developments could compromise or breach the methods and procedures that we use to protect our consumers’ transaction data. In addition, unaffiliated programmers/hackers may attempt to steal proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. To prevent such developments we may need to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these problems. Continued imposition of tighter processing restrictions by credit card associations and acquiring banks would make it more difficult to generate revenues from Internet and mobile telephone transactions. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our online and mobile phone products and services is critical to us. There are ongoing efforts by credit card and other payment associations to restrict the processing of payments for online and mobile adult-related content. To protect against such restrictions, we must invest heavily in new technologies to protect against fraud. Unlike a merchant handling a sales transaction in a non-internet environment, e-commerce merchants are fully responsible for all fraud perpetrated against them. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our online products and services could be restricted or denied for many reasons, including: • Visa Tier 1 capital ratio requirements for financial institutions have significantly reduced the total dollar sales volume of Visa credit card activity that any bank can process in any given month; • if we experience excessive chargebacks and/or credits; • if we experience excessive fraud ratios; • if there is a breach of our security resulting in a theft of credit card data; • if there is a change in policy of the acquiring banks and/or credit card associations with respect to the processing of credit card charges for adult-related content; • tightening of credit card association chargeback regulations in international commerce; • banks might choose not to accept accounts with adult-related content. American Express has instituted a policy of not processing credit card charges for online, adult-related content. If other credit card processing companies were to implement a similar policy, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We outsource our production and distribution. We acquire still photography and motion pictures/video content from independent producers/directors, and we rely on third-party distributors to deliver our products to end-users through multiple distribution channels, including newsstands, the Internet and broadcasting. Our relationship with such producers/directors and distributors is contractually based. We cannot guarantee that our contracts with directors will be fulfilled or that we will enter into new ones, in which case we may not have adequate content for our magazines and movies. Also, we cannot guarantee that our contracts with distributors will be renewed, in which case we may not be able to sell new products through some or all channels or into some countries. Failure to secure new production contracts, to secure the fulfillment of current contracts or to maintain our current distribution contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New technological changes may render our equipment uneconomical or obsolete. As technologies change, the equipment used in our markets may become obsolete. As a result, we subcontract and intend to continue to 18 Table of Contents subcontract capital intensive or technically complex businesses such as editing, DVD replication and other similar businesses. However, we may not have access to these subcontractors when their services are required, and their services may not be available on favorable terms. Increased government regulation in the United States or abroad could limit our ability to deliver content and expand our business. New laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or more aggressive application of existing laws, could decrease the growth of our websites, prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. These new laws or regulations could relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, taxation, user privacy and other matters relating to our products and services. For example, the U.S. government has recently enacted laws regarding website privacy, copyrights and taxation. Moreover, the application to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, pornography, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. In addition, adult content remains prohibited or strictly controlled in many geographic markets. Some markets, such China, are strengthening their anti-pornography stances, providing a major challenge for adult entertainment providers. Cable system operators could also become subject to new governmental regulations that could further restrict their ability to broadcast our programming. If new regulations make it more difficult for cable operators to broadcast our programming, our operating performance would be adversely affected. We face risks relating to our proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, software security measures, license agreements and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary products. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties copy parts of, or otherwise obtain and use our videos, photographs and other products without our permission. In addition, unauthorized users occasionally use our concepts and products and market them to our established customer base. Products sold over the Internet are particularly vulnerable to piracy, particularly in some developing countries. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding products, thereby reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Confidentiality agreements with our employees or license agreements with our customers may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of that proprietary information. We do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, and we are not currently the subject of any intellectual property litigation or proceedings. Nonetheless, in the future we could become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that any lawsuits or other actions brought by us will be successful or that we will not be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, to the extent we may desire, or are required, to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others, there can be no guarantee that any such licenses will be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Enforcement of civil liabilities against Private Media and its management may be difficult. Presently, most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon them or to enforce, in courts outside the United States, judgments against these persons obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, since the disposition of our Game Link operations, virtually all of our assets are now located outside the United States. As a result, a judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be fully collectible within the United States. There are risks associated with our international operations. As a European based enterprise, a majority of our operations are conducted outside the United States. In addition, our growth strategy contemplates increased services to foreign customers and to domestic customers distributing programming to international markets. As a consequence of the global nature of our business, we will be exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. By virtue of our significant cross-border operations, we will be subject to the risks normally associated with such activities, including those relating to delayed payments from customers in some countries or difficulties in the collection of receivables generally. 19 Table of Contents In addition, we will be exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we engage in business. Political and economic instability in these countries could adversely affect our business activities and operations. Unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could limit operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of differing legal environments could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in some markets. We are subject to risks relating to performers. Our movie, video and photo productions are subject to U.S. and foreign regulations which govern the terms and conditions under which sexually explicit media productions may occur. We have adopted practices and procedures that are intended to ensure compliance with these regulations. Although these measures are intended to protect us from liability under applicable U.S. and foreign laws governing sexually explicit media productions, we cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to successful legal attacks in the future. Any material violation of the rules and regulations concerning the production of sexually explicit media in a jurisdiction could subject us to significant financial penalties and could limit our ability to conduct future operations in that jurisdiction. Risks Associated With Our Securities. Our principal shareholder holds sufficient number of our common stock to be able to elect our future Board of Directors, to control our operations, and to prevent other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 28, 2012, Consipio Holding BV, a corporation organized under the laws of The Netherlands, acquired 800,000 shares of our newly created 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock. The 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock votes with the shares of our common stock as if it were converted into shares of our common stock. As of the date of this Annual Report, the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock controls approximately 59.4% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Consipio has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and the ability to direct the outcome of matters presented to our shareholders, including corporate actions such as: • our merger with or into another company; • a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • amendments to our Articles of Incorporation. The decisions of Consipio or its elected or designated directors may conflict with our interests or those of our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although our shareholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends to the holders of our common stock until we have paid the cumulative 6% annual dividend to the holders of our 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. We are authorized to issue 110,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 100,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. At June 26, 2013, approximately 27,806,211 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding and 1,700,000 shares of our preferred stock were authorized and available for future issuance. Should we obtain additional financing, we may issue authorized and unissued shares of common stock at below current market prices or preferred stock that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents There are risks relating to the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including deterring attempts by third parties to acquire us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,700,000 additional shares of preferred stock, and to determine their price, and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock, including preferred stock that we may issue in the future. If preferred stock is issued, it may rank senior to our common stock in respect of the right to receive dividends and to participate in distributions or payments in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The provisions in our articles of incorporation authorizing preferred stock could delay, defer or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the voting and other rights of holders of our common stock, including the loss of voting control to others, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Substantial sales of our common stock by the holder of our 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock could cause our common stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2012, there were 27,259,869 outstanding shares of our common stock. However, the shares of our currently outstanding shares of 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock are convertible into another 40,000,000 shares of our common stock. Consipio, the holder of our currently outstanding 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock will be entitled to start selling the shares of common stock into which the preferred stock is convertible in June 2013 under Rule 144. In addition, in order to enable us to redeem the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, we intend to register the public resale of all shares underlying the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock during 2013. Therefore, Consipio will be eligible to resell substantial amounts of our common stock during 2013 in the public market. The sale of a significant number of our shares of common stock by Consipio may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Our stock may be traded infrequently and in low volumes, so you may be unable to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid prices if you need to sell your shares. The shares of our common stock may trade infrequently and in low volumes on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company, we are relatively unknown, we are based in Barcelona, Spain, and conduct most of our operations outside of the U.S., and we are in the adult entertainment business. As a result of these factors, stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who can generate or influence sales volume, may be reluctant to follow a company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a well-known issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. A broader or more active public trading market for our common shares may not develop or be sustained. Due to these conditions, you may not be able to sell your shares at or near bid prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. As a result, investors could, and should be prepared to, lose all or part of their investment. You may have difficulty selling our shares if they are deemed “penny stocks.” Since our common stock is not listed on a Nasdaq Stock Market or a national securities exchange, trading in our common stock will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-national securities exchange equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions that we may not fall within in the future). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to 21 Table of Contents the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 