ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS COMMON TO BOTH OF OUR BUSINESSES Future revenue growth depends upon our ability to adapt to technological change and successfully introduce new and enhanced products and services. The online service and software industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, and frequent new product introductions. Our competitors in both the Search and Tax Preparation segments offer new and enhanced products and services every year, and customer expectations change as a result. We must successfully innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and expectations. We will need to devote significant resources to continue to develop our skills, tools, and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies. Our inability to successfully introduce new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis could harm our business and financial results. Our products and services have historically been provided through desktop computers, but the number of people who access similar products and services through mobile devices such as smartphones and tablets has increased dramatically in the past few years. We have limited experience to date in developing products and services for users of these alternative devices, and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our products and services for use on these alternative devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such offerings. If we are slow to develop products and services that are compatible with these alternative devices, particularly if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors, we will fail to maintain or grow our share of the markets in which we compete. In addition, such new products and services may not succeed in the marketplace, resulting in lost market share, wasted development costs, and damage to our brands. Our business depends on our strong reputation and the value of our brands. Developing and maintaining awareness of our brands is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to events or activities attributed to our businesses, our employees, our vendors, or our partners may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and have an adverse effect on our future financial results. Such damage will also require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of the brands. Our website and transaction management software, data center systems, or the systems of third-party co-location facilities and cloud service providers could fail or become unavailable, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of revenues and current or potential customers. Any system interruptions that result in the unavailability or unreliability of our websites, transaction processing systems, or network infrastructure could reduce our revenue and impair our ability to properly process transactions. We use internally developed and third-party systems, including cloud computing and storage systems, for our online services and certain aspects of transaction processing. Some of our systems are relatively new and untested, and thus may be subject to failure or unreliability. Any system unavailability or unreliability may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in customer satisfaction, additional expense, or delays in reporting accurate financial information. Our data centers could be susceptible to damage or disruption, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We provide our own data center services for our Search business from two geographically diverse third-party co-location facilities. Although the two data centers provide some redundancy, not all of our systems and operations have backup redundancy. Our TaxACT business has a disaster recovery center which we 9 Table of Contents built in late 2012 and have tested, but if the primary data center fails and the disaster recovery center fails to fully restore the failed environments, our TaxACT business will suffer, particularly if such interruption occurs during the “tax season.” Our systems and operations, and those of our third-party service providers, could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, earthquakes, other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, break-in, human error, software bugs, hardware failures, malicious attacks, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, terrorist attacks, or other events beyond our control. Such damage or interruption may affect internal and external systems that we rely upon to provide our services, take and fulfill customer orders, handle customer service requests, and host other products and services. During the period in which services are unavailable, we will be unable or severely limited in our ability to generate revenues, and we may also be exposed to liability from those third parties to whom we provide services. We could face significant losses as a result of these events, and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all potential losses. For these reasons, our business and financial results could be materially harmed if our systems and operations are damaged or interrupted. If the volume of traffic to our infrastructure increases substantially, we must respond in a timely fashion by expanding our systems, which may entail upgrading our technology, transaction processing systems, and network infrastructure. Our ability to support our expansion and upgrade requirements may be constrained due to our business demands or constraints of our third-party co-location facility providers and cloud service providers. Due to the number of our customers and the services that we offer, we could experience periodic capacity constraints that may cause temporary unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service, and limit our ability to develop, offer, or release new or enhanced products and services. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our services or we fail to adequately expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. The security measures we have implemented to secure confidential and personal information may be breached, and such a breach may pose risks to the uninterrupted operation of our systems, expose us to mitigation costs, litigation, potential investigation and penalties by authorities, potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed, and damage our reputation. Our networks and those from our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers, rogue employees or contractors, computer viruses, and other disruptive problems. A person who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or personal information or cause interruptions in our operations. Unauthorized access to, or abuse of, this information could result in significant harm to our business. We collect and retain certain sensitive personal data. Our TaxACT business collects, uses, and retains large amounts of customer personal and financial information, including information regarding income, family members, credit cards, tax returns, bank accounts, social security numbers, and healthcare. Our search services receive, retain, and transmit certain personal information about our website visitors. Subscribers to some of our search services are required to provide information that may be considered to be personally identifiable or private information. We are subject to laws, regulations, and industry rules, relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. We expect regulation in this area to increase. As a result of such new regulation, our current data protection policies and practices may not be sufficient and may require modification. New regulations may also impose burdens that may require notification to customers or employees of a security breach, restrict our use of personal information, and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. As our business continues to expand to new industry segments that may be more highly regulated for privacy and data security, our compliance requirements and costs may increase. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, and contractual obligations. 10 Table of Contents A major breach of our systems or those of our third-party service providers may have serious negative consequences for our businesses, including possible fines, penalties and damages, reduced customer demand for our services, harm to our reputation and brands, further regulation and oversight by federal or state agencies, and loss of our ability to provide financial transaction services or accept and process customer credit card orders or tax returns. We may detect, or receive notices from customers or public or private agencies that they have detected, vulnerabilities in our servers, our software or third-party software components that are distributed with our products. The existence of vulnerabilities, even if they do not result in a security breach, may harm customer confidence and require substantial resources to address, and we may not be able to discover or remediate such security vulnerabilities before they are exploited. In addition, hackers develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that may attack our offerings. Although we deploy network and application security measures, internal control measures, and physical security procedures to safeguard our systems, there can be no assurance that a security breach, intrusion, loss or theft of personal information will not occur, which may harm our business, customer reputation and future financial results and may require us to expend significant resources to address these problems, including notification under data privacy regulations. We rely on the infrastructure of the Internet over which we have no control and the failure of which could substantially undermine our operations. The success of both our Search and Tax Preparation businesses depends on the maintenance and expansion of the infrastructure of the Internet. In particular, we rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity, and security. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use, and amount of data transmitted, the segments of the internet infrastructure that we rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. The failure of any parts of the internet infrastructure that we rely on, even for a short period of time, would substantially undermine our operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our financial and operating results may suffer if we are unsuccessful in completing and integrating acquisitions. If we are successful in acquiring new businesses or technologies, they may not be complementary to our current operations or leverage our current infrastructure and operational experience. We intend to acquire and develop new businesses or technologies, and our future success may depend on our ability to successfully identify, acquire, and integrate such businesses and technologies. Potential acquisition targets range in size from relatively small to a size comparable to our own, and therefore may be material to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are successful in identifying and acquiring targets, those targets may not be complementary to our current operations and may not leverage our existing infrastructure or operational experience. In addition, any acquisitions or developments of businesses or technologies may not prove successful. In the past, we have experienced negative financial results as the result of impairment charges of goodwill and other intangible assets related to certain acquisitions. The process of identifying, acquiring, and integrating new businesses and technologies involves numerous risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price, including: • expenses related to the acquisition process, both for consummated and unconsummated transactions; • diversion of management’s other key personnel’s attention from current operations and other business concerns and potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • disruption of our ongoing business or the ongoing acquired business, including impairment of existing relationships with the employees, distributors, suppliers, or customers of our existing businesses or those of the acquired companies; • difficulties in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems, and management and other personnel of acquired companies that result in unanticipated allocation of resources, costs, or delays; 11 Table of Contents • the dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of issuances of stock, incurring operating losses, and the amortization of intangible assets for the acquired business; • stock volatility due to the perceived value of the acquired business by investors; • any debt incurred to finance acquisitions would increase costs, may increase volatility in our stock price, and could accelerate a decline in stockholder equity in the event of poor financial performance; • diversion of capital from other uses; • failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner, or at all; • difficulties in acquiring foreign companies, including risks related to integrating operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • adverse outcome of litigation matters or other contingent liabilities assumed in or arising out of the acquisitions. Developing or acquiring a business or technology, and then integrating it with our other operations, will be complex, time consuming, and expensive. The successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we: retain key personnel; maintain and support preexisting supplier, distribution, and customer relationships; and integrate accounting and support functions. The complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and the disparate corporate cultures and/or industries being combined, may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired technology or business. If our integration of acquired or internally developed technologies or businesses, including our recent acquisition of the TaxACT business, is not successful, we may experience adverse financial or competitive effects. There can be no assurance that the short- or long-term value of any business or technology that we develop or acquire will be equal to the value of the cash and other consideration that we paid or expenses we incurred. Our stock price has been highly volatile and such volatility may continue. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2012, our stock price ranged from $7.94 to $18.25. On March 1, 2013, the closing price of our common stock was $15.53. Our stock price could decline or fluctuate wildly in response to many factors, including the other risks discussed in this report and the following: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, dispositions, charges, changes in or loss of material contracts and relationships, or other business developments by us, our partners, or our competitors; • conditions or trends in the search services or tax preparation markets; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets; • announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • disclosures of any accounting issues, such as restatements or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • equity issuances resulting in the dilution of stockholders; • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards; and • announcements or publicity relating to litigation or governmental enforcement actions. In addition, the market for technology company securities has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and our stock has been particularly susceptible to such fluctuations. Often, class action litigation has been instituted against companies after periods of volatility in the price of such companies’ stock. If such litigation were to be instituted against us, even if we were to prevail, it could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention and resources. 12 Table of Contents Our financial results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Our financial results have varied on a quarterly basis and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Many factors could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate materially, including but not limited to: • changes or potential changes in our relationships with Google or Yahoo! or future significant Search Customers, such as the effects of changes to their requirements or guidelines or their measurement of the quality of traffic that we send to their advertiser networks, and any resulting loss or reduction of content that we can use or provide to our distribution partners; • the loss, termination, or reduction in scope of key search distribution relationships as a result of, for example, distribution partners licensing content directly from content providers, or any suspension by our Search Customers (particularly Google) of the right to use or distribute content on the web properties of our distribution partners; • the inability of our TaxACT business to meet our expectations; • the extreme seasonality of our TaxACT business and the resulting large quarterly fluctuations in our revenues; • the success or failure of our strategic initiatives and our ability to implement those initiatives in a cost effective manner; • the mix of search services revenue generated by our owned and operated web properties versus our distribution partners’ web properties; • the mix of revenues generated by our Search business versus our Tax Preparation business or other businesses we develop or acquire; • our , and our distribution partners’, ability to attract and retain quality traffic for our search services; • gains or losses driven by mark to market fair value accounting, particularly with respect to the warrant we issued in August 2011, the value of which varies from quarter to quarter based on our stock price (see “General and administrative expenses” under Item 7 of Part II of this report); • litigation expenses and settlement costs; • expenses incurred in finding, negotiating, consummating, and integrating acquisitions; • variable demand for our services, rapidly evolving technologies and markets, and consumer preferences; • any restructuring charges we may incur; • any economic downturn, which may lead to lower online advertising revenue from advertisers; • new court rulings, or the adoption of new laws, rules, or regulations, that adversely affect our ability to acquire content and distribute our search services, that adversely affect our tax preparation products and services, or that otherwise increase our potential liability; • impairment in the value of long-lived assets or the value of acquired assets, including goodwill, core technology, and acquired contracts and relationships; and • the effect of changes in accounting principles or standards or in our accounting treatment of revenues or expenses. For these reasons, among others, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast our future performance. Furthermore, our fluctuating operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and financial results volatility could make us less attractive to investors, either of which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. 13 Table of Contents Existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from operations may not be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures. Although we believe that existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months, the underlying levels of revenues and expenses that we project may not prove to be accurate. In addition, we evaluate acquisitions of businesses, products, or technologies from time to time. Any such transactions, if completed, may use a significant portion of our cash balances and marketable investments. If we are unable to liquidate our investments when we need liquidity for acquisitions or business purposes, we may need to change or postpone such acquisitions or find alternative financing for such acquisitions. We may seek additional funding through public or private financings, through sales of equity, or through other arrangements. Our ability to raise funds may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate and increased uncertainty in the financial, capital, and credit markets. Adequate funds may not be available when needed or may not be available on favorable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to existing stockholders may result. If funding is insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable, or delayed in our ability, to develop or enhance our products or services, take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. We incurred debt as part of our acquisition of the TaxACT business, and we may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. Our indirect subsidiary, 2nd Story, operator of the TaxACT business, incurred debt as part of our acquisition of that business, of which $74.5 million remains outstanding. This debt is non-recourse debt that is guaranteed by TaxACT Holdings, Blucora’s direct subsidiary, and 2nd Story’s direct parent. This debt may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: • increasing 2nd Story’s vulnerability to downturns in its business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from 2nd Story’s operations to service this indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; • requiring cash infusions from Blucora to 2nd Story if 2nd Story is unable to meet its debt obligations; • increasing our interest payment obligations in the event that interest rates rise dramatically (including on the portion of the debt that has an interest rate hedge if such hedge becomes ineffective); and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and our industries. This credit facility imposes restrictions on 2nd Story, including restrictions on 2nd Story’s ability to create liens on its assets and on our ability to incur indebtedness, and requires 2nd Story to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. 2nd Story’s ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond its control. In addition, this credit facility includes covenants, the breach of which may cause the outstanding indebtedness to be declared immediately due and payable. This debt, and our ability to repay it, may also negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. If others claim that our services infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer our services, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation, or stop marketing and licensing our services. Companies and individuals with rights relating to the software and online services industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international 14 Table of Contents intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. These parties have in the past, and may in the future, make claims against us alleging infringement of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy or publicity rights. Responding to any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention, cause product or service release delays, require us to redesign our services, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Our technology and services may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If a successful claim of infringement was made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or content, or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could suffer. We do not regularly conduct patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our services infringes patents held by third parties. Patent searches may not return every issued patent or patent application that may be deemed relevant to a particular product or service. It is therefore difficult to determine, with any level of certainty, whether a particular product or service may be construed as infringing a current or future U.S. or foreign patent. We rely heavily on our technology and intellectual property, but we may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, thus weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our business and financial results. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, which can be time consuming, expensive, and difficult to predict. To protect our rights in our services and technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. We also rely on laws pertaining to trademarks and domain names to protect the value of our corporate brands and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our services or technology, obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise violate or infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that others could independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, or if others independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our services and technology is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary assets. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective, and unauthorized parties may obtain and use information, marks, or technology that we regard as proprietary, copy aspects of our services, or use similar marks or domain names. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Our intellectual property may be subject to even greater risk in foreign jurisdictions, as protection is not sought or obtained in every country in which our services and technology are available and it is often more difficult and costly to obtain, register, or enforce our rights in foreign jurisdictions. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of others’ proprietary rights, which are sometimes not clear or may change. Litigation can be time consuming and expensive, and the outcome can be difficult to predict. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, 15 Table of Contents delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay, or prevent a third party from acquiring us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents that could have an anti-takeover effect include: • the classification of our board of directors into three groups so that directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors; • the requirement for supermajority approval by stockholders for certain business combinations; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote by stockholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend or repeal the bylaws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • limitations on stockholders’ ability to call special stockholder meetings; • advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • certain restrictions in our charter on transfers of our common stock designed to preserve our federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). At our 2009 annual meeting, our stockholders approved an amendment to our certificate of incorporation that restricts any person or entity from attempting to transfer our stock, without prior permission from the Board of Directors, to the extent that such transfer would (i) create or result in an individual or entity becoming a five-percent stockholder of our stock, or (ii) increase the stock ownership percentage of any existing five-percent stockholder. This amendment provides that any transfer that violates its provisions shall be null and void and would require the purported transferee to, upon our demand, transfer the shares that exceed the five percent limit to an agent designated by us for the purpose of conducting a sale of such excess shares. This provision in our certificate of incorporation may make the acquisition of Blucora more expensive to the acquirer and could significantly delay, discourage, or prevent third parties from acquiring Blucora without the approval of our board of directors. If there is a change in our ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use our NOLs may be severely limited or potentially eliminated. As of December 31, 2012, we had NOLs of $723.3 million that will expire primarily over an eight to twelve year period. If we were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning five percent or more of a company’s common stock over a three-year rolling period), then under certain conditions, the amount of NOLs we could use in any one year could be limited to an amount equal to our market capitalization, net of substantial non-business assets, at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. Our certificate of incorporation imposes certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock that we expect will assist us in preventing a change of ownership and preserving our NOLs, but there can be no assurance that these restrictions will be sufficient. In addition, other restrictions on our ability to use the NOLs may be triggered by a merger or acquisition, depending on the structure of such a transaction. It is our intention to limit the potential impact of these restrictions, but there can be no guarantee that such efforts will be successful. If we are unable to use our NOLs before they expire, or if the use of this tax benefit is severely limited or eliminated, there could be a material reduction in the amount of after-tax income and cash flow from operations, and it could have an effect on our ability to engage in certain transactions. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain, and motivate highly skilled management, technical, sales and marketing, and corporate development personnel. Qualified personnel with experience relevant to our businesses are scarce and competition to recruit them is intense. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting or expanding our businesses. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment and may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain, and motivate employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees. Changes of management or key employees may cause disruption to our operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results or delay achievement of our business objectives. In addition, if we lose the services of one or more key employees and are unable to recruit and retain a suitable successor, we may not be able to successfully and timely manage our business or achieve our business objectives. For example, the success of our Search business is partially dependent on key personnel who have long-term relationships with our Search Customers and distribution partners. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees. Like many technology companies, we use stock options, restricted stock units, and other equity-based awards to recruit and retain senior level employees. With respect to those employees to whom we issue such equity-based awards, we face a significant challenge in retaining them if the value of equity-based awards in aggregate or individually is either not deemed by the employee to be substantial enough or deemed so substantial that the employee leaves after their equity-based awards vest. If our stock price does not increase significantly above the exercise prices of our options or does not increase significantly above the comparative index price for our market stock units, we may need to issue new equity-based awards in order to motivate and retain our executives. We may undertake or seek stockholder approval to undertake other equity-based programs to retain our employees, which may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any such programs, or any other incentive programs, we undertake will be successful in motivating and retaining our employees. Restructuring and streamlining our business, including implementing reductions in workforce, discretionary spending, and other expense reductions, may harm our business. We have in the past and may in the future find it advisable to take measures to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including, without limitation, reducing our workforce or discontinuing products or businesses. Such measures may place significant strains on our management and employees, and could impair our development, marketing, sales, and customer support efforts. We may also incur liabilities from these measures, including liabilities from early termination or assignment of contracts, potential failure to meet obligations due to loss of employees or resources, and resulting litigation. Such effects from restructuring and streamlining could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SEARCH BUSINESS We may be unable to compete successfully in the search market. We face intense competition in the search market. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures, greater brand recognition, better access to vendors, or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product and service offerings more rapidly, adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in content provider and distribution partner requirements more quickly, achieve greater economies of scale, and 17 Table of Contents devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. Some of the companies that we compete with in the search market are currently Search Customers of ours, the loss of any of which could harm our business. In addition, we may face increasing competition for search market share from new search startups, mobile search providers, and social media sites and applications. If we are unable to match or exceed our competitors’ marketing reach and customer service experience, our business may not be successful. Because of these competitive factors and due to our relatively small size and financial resources, we may be unable to compete successfully in the search market and, to the extent that these competitive factors apply to other markets that we pursue, in such other markets. Failure by us or our search distribution partners to comply with the guidelines promulgated by Google and Yahoo! may cause that Search Customer to temporarily or permanently suspend the use of its content or terminate its agreement with us, or may require us to modify or terminate certain distribution relationships. If we or our search distribution partners fail to meet the guidelines promulgated by Google or Yahoo! for the use of their content, we may not be able to continue to use their content or provide the content to such distribution partners. Our agreements with Google and Yahoo! give them the ability to suspend the use and the distribution of their content for non-compliance with their requirements and guidelines and, in the case of breaches of certain other provisions of their agreements, to terminate their agreements with us immediately, regardless of whether such breaches could be cured. The terms of the Search Customer agreements with Google and Yahoo! and the related guidelines are subject to differing interpretations by the parties. Google and Yahoo! have in the past suspended, and may in the future, suspend their content provided to our websites and the websites of our distribution partners, without notice, when they believe that we or our distribution partners are not in compliance with their guidelines or are in breach of the terms of their agreements. During such suspension we will not receive any revenue from any property of ours or a distribution partner that is affected by the suspended content, and the loss of such revenue could harm our business and financial results. Additionally, as our business evolves, we expect that the guidelines of Google and Yahoo!, as well as the parties’ interpretations of compliance, breach, and sufficient justification for suspension of use of content will change. Both Yahoo! and Google regularly change their guidelines and requirements, both as part of our renegotiation of our agreements with them and generally as they manage their networks of distribution partners. These changes in the guidelines and any changes in the parties’ interpretations of those guidelines may result in restrictions on our use of the Google and Yahoo! search services, and may require us to terminate our agreement with distribution partners or forego entering into agreements with distribution partners. The loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners as a result of suspension, termination, or modification of distribution or Search Customer agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Restrictions on our ability, and the ability of our search distribution partners, to distribute, market, or offer search-related applications, products, and services may impact our financial results. A significant portion of our Search revenue is dependent on business models that can be negatively impacted by changes in policies or technology. For example, many of our Search distribution partners distribute applications, extensions, or toolbars that are monetized through the search services that we provide. Our Search Customers require that such applications, extensions, or toolbars, and the distribution of those applications, extensions, or toolbars, comply with certain guidelines. Our Search Customers can and do modify these guidelines from time to time, and recent modifications of these guidelines may impact the distribution of applications, extensions, or toolbars that drive traffic and revenue to our search services. In addition, our Search Customers’ guidelines have in the past, and may in the future, negatively affected our ability, and the ability of our search distribution partners, to drive traffic to our search services through the use of search engine marketing. 18 Table of Contents Further, certain third parties have introduced, and can be expected to continue to introduce, new or updated technologies, applications, and policies that may interfere with the ability of users of search services provided directly by us or by our search distribution partners to access those services. For example third parties have introduced technologies and applications (including new and enhanced web browsers) that prevent users from downloading the extensions or toolbars provided by some of our search partners. Those applications may also have features and policies that interfere with the functionality of search boxes embedded within extensions and toolbars and the maintenance of home page and other settings previously selected by users. Any changes in technologies, applications, and policies that restrict the distribution, marketing, and offering of search-related applications, extensions, toolbars, products, and services may impact our operating and financial results. Most of our search services revenue is attributable to Google, and the loss of, or a payment dispute with, Google or any other significant Search Customer would harm our business and financial results. If Google, Yahoo!, or any future significant Search Customer were to substantially reduce or eliminate the content it provides to us or to our distribution partners, our business results could materially suffer if we are unable to establish and maintain new Search Customer relationships, or expand our remaining Search Customer relationships, to replace the lost or disputed revenue. Google accounted for approximately 77% of our total revenues in 2012. Yahoo! remains an important partner and contributes to our value proposition as a metasearch provider, but over the past several years, Yahoo!’s percentage or our revenue has declined, and we expect this trend to continue. We continue to believe that if our Google relationship ended or was impaired, we could replace a portion of the lost revenue with revenue from Yahoo!, but because of the increased importance of Google to our search operations, these two Search Customers are no longer interchangeable. In addition, Yahoo! has entered into an agreement with Microsoft’s Bing search service, under which Bing provides all of Yahoo!’s algorithmic search results and some of its paid search results. If Yahoo! cannot maintain an agreement with Bing on favorable terms, or if Bing is unable to adequately perform its obligations to Yahoo!, then Yahoo!’s ability to provide us with algorithmic and paid search results may be impaired. If a Search Customer is unwilling to pay us amounts that it owes us, or if it disputes amounts it owes us or has previously paid to us for any reason (including for the reasons described in the risk factors below), our business and financial results could materially suffer. Our Search business will suffer if we are unable to negotiate the extension of our Search Customer agreements on favorable terms. Our agreement with Yahoo! runs to December 31, 2013 and our agreement with Google runs to March 31, 2014. A substantial portion of our search services revenue is dependent on our relationships with a small number of distribution partners who distribute our search services, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We rely on our relationships with search distribution partners, including Internet service providers, web portals, and software application providers, for distribution of our search services. In 2012, 75% of our total revenues came from searches conducted by end users on the web properties of our search distribution partners. Approximately 40% of our total revenues in 2012 was generated through relationships with our top five distribution partners. There can be no assurance that these relationships will continue or will result in benefits to us that outweigh their cost. Moreover, as the proportion of our revenue generated by distribution partners has increased in previous quarters, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, less control and visibility over performance. One of our challenges is providing our distribution partners with relevant services at competitive prices in rapidly evolving markets. Distribution partners may create their own services or may seek to license services from our Search Customers or other competitors or replace the services that we provide. Also, many of our distribution partners have limited operating histories and evolving business models that may prove unsuccessful even if our services are relevant and our prices competitive. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our distribution partners, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our agreements with many of our distribution partners come up for renewal in 2013. In addition, some of our distributors have the right to immediately terminate their agreements in the event of certain breaches. Such agreements may be terminated, may not be renewed, or may not be renewed on favorable terms, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. We anticipate that our distribution costs for our revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners will increase as revenue grows, and may increase as a percentage of revenues to the extent that there are changes to existing arrangements or we enter into new arrangements on less favorable terms. In addition, competition continues for quality consumer traffic in the search market. We have experienced increased competition from our Search Customers as they seek to enter into content provider agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Any difficulties that we experience with maintaining or strengthening our business relationships with our major distribution partners could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. If advertisers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic to their sites through their paid-per-click advertisements, they may reduce or eliminate their advertising through the Internet, which could have a negative material impact on our business and financial results. Most of our revenue from our search business is based on the number of clicks on paid search results that are served on our web properties or those of our distribution partners. Each time a user clicks on a paid search result, the Search Customer that provided the paid search result receives a fee from the advertiser who paid for the click and the Search Customer pays us a portion of that fee. If the click originated from one of our distribution partners’ web properties, we share a portion of the fee we receive with such partner. If an advertiser receives what it perceives to be poor quality traffic, meaning that the advertiser’s objectives are not met for a sufficient percentage of clicks for which it pays, the advertiser may reduce or eliminate its advertisements through the Search Customer that provided the commercial search result to us. This leads to a loss of revenue for our Search Customers and consequently lower fees paid to us. Also, if a Search Customer perceives that the traffic originating from one of our web properties or the web property of a distribution partner is of poor quality, the Search Customer may discount the amount it charged all advertisers whose paid click advertisements appeared on such website or web property, and accordingly may reduce the amount it pays us. The Search Customer may also suspend or terminate our ability to provide its content through such websites or web properties if such activities are not modified to satisfy the Search Customer’s concerns. Poor quality traffic may be a result of invalid click activity. Such invalid click activity occurs, for example, when a person or automated click generation program clicks on a commercial search result to generate fees for the web property displaying the commercial search result rather than to view the webpage underlying the commercial search result. Some of this invalid click activity is referred to as “click fraud.” When such invalid click activity is detected, the Search Customer may not charge the advertiser or may refund the fee paid by the advertiser for such invalid clicks. If the invalid click activity originated from one of our distribution partners’ web properties or our owned and operated properties, such non-charge or refund of the fees paid by the advertisers in turn reduces the amount of fees the Search Customer pays us. Initiatives we undertake to improve the quality of the traffic that we send to our Search Customers may not be successful and, even if successful, may result in loss of revenue in a given reporting period. For example, during the first half of 2010, we removed certain traffic from some distribution partners in an effort to improve traffic quality, and these actions, while successful in improving traffic quality, had a material negative impact on our revenues for the first and second quarters of 2010. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability for our use or distribution of information that we gather or receive from third parties and indemnity protections or insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. Our search services obtain content and commerce information from third parties and link users, either directly through our own websites or indirectly through the web properties of our distribution partners, to third-party webpages and content in response to search queries and other requests. These services could expose us to legal liability from claims relating to such third-party content and sites, the manner in which these services are distributed and displayed by us or our distribution partners, or how the content provided by our Search Customers was obtained or provided by our Search Customers. This could subject us to legal liability for such things as defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy or publicity rights, and product or service liability, among others. Laws or regulations of certain jurisdictions may also deem some content illegal, which may expose us to legal liability as well. Regardless of the legal merits of any such claims, they could result in costly litigation, be time consuming to defend, and divert management’s attention and resources. If there was a determination that we had violated third-party rights or applicable law, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements (if available), or be required to change our business practices. We are also subject to laws and regulations, both in the United States and abroad, regarding the collection and use of end user information and search related data. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be exposed to legal liability. Although the agreements by which we obtain content contain indemnity provisions, these provisions may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or the party giving the indemnity may not have the financial resources to cover the claim. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made against us. In addition, we may also have an obligation to indemnify and hold harmless certain of our Search Customers or distribution partners from damages they suffer for such violations under our contracts with them. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to such claims could require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our services. As a result, these claims could result in material harm to our business. Any liability that we incur as a result of content we receive from third parties could harm our financial results. Governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, and create potential liability. The growth and development of the Internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the Internet, in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Application of these laws can be unclear. For example, it is unclear how many existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses (such as gambling, online auctions, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, tobacco, firearms, insurance, securities brokerage, or legal services) apply to search services, online advertising, and our business. The costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our market (including limiting our ability to distribute our services; conduct targeted advertising; collect, use, or transfer user information; or comply with new data security requirements), expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. It is impossible to predict whether or when any new legislation may be adopted or existing legislation or regulatory requirements will be deemed applicable to us, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) requirements, or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by the FTC or others, including potential class action litigation, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. For example, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the U.S. Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy and data protection issues related to our businesses. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted and certain proposals, if adopted, could materially and adversely affect our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. 21 Table of Contents The FTC has recommended that search engine providers delineate paid-ranking search results from non-paid results. To the extent that we are required to modify presentation of search results as a result of specific regulations or requirements that may be issued in the future by the FTC or other state or federal agencies or legislative bodies with respect to the nature of such delineation or other aspects of advertising in connection with search services, revenue from the affected search engines could be negatively impacted. Addressing these regulations may require us to develop additional technology or otherwise expend significant time and expense. Due to the nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate Internet transmissions, through data protection laws amongst others, or institute proceedings for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAX PREPARATION BUSINESS The tax preparation market is very competitive, and failure to effectively compete will adversely affect our financial results. Our TaxACT business operates in a very competitive marketplace. There are many competing software products and online services, including two competitors who have a significant percentage of the software and online service market: Intuit’s TurboTax and H&R Block’s products and services. Our TaxACT business must also compete with alternate methods of tax preparation, including “pencil and paper” do-it-yourself return preparation by individual filers and storefront tax preparation services, including both local tax preparers and large chains such as H&R Block , Liberty, and Jackson Hewitt. Finally, our TaxACT business faces the risk that state or federal taxing agencies will offer software or systems to provide direct access for individual filers that will reduce the need for TaxACT’s software and services. Our financial results will suffer if we cannot continue to offer software and services that have quality and ease-of-use that are compelling to consumers; market the software and services in a cost effective way; offer ancillary services that are attractive to users; and develop the software and services at a low enough cost to be able to offer them at a competitive price point. The seasonality of our tax preparation business requires a precise development and release schedule and any delays or issues with accuracy or quality may damage our reputation and harm our future financial results. Our tax preparation software and online service must be ready to launch in final form near the beginning of each calendar year to take advantage of the full tax season. We must update the code for our software and service each year to account for annual changes in tax laws and regulations. Delayed and unpredictable changes to federal and state tax laws and regulations can cause an already tight development cycle to become even more challenging. We must develop our code on a precise schedule that both incorporates all such changes and ensures that the software and service are accurate. If we are unable to meet this precise schedule and we launch our software and service late, we risk losing customers to our competitors. If we cannot develop our software with a high degree of accuracy and quality, we risk errors in the tax returns that are generated. Such errors could result in loss of reputation, lower customer retention, or legal fees and payouts related to the warranty on our software and service. The hosting, collection, use, and retention of personal customer information and data by our TaxACT business creates risk that may harm our business. Our TaxACT business collects, uses, and retains large amounts of customer personal and financial information, including information regarding income, family members, credit cards, tax returns, bank accounts, social security numbers, and healthcare. Some of this personal customer information is held by third-party vendors that process certain transactions. In addition, as many of our products and services are web-based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing and 22 Table of Contents will continue to increase as we further evolve our businesses. We and our vendors use security technologies to protect transactions and personal information and use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information. However, individuals or third parties, including rogue employees, contractors, temporary workers, vendors, business partners, or hackers, may be able to circumvent these security and business measures. In addition, our clients may access our online tax preparation services from their computers and mobile devices, install and use our tax preparation software on their computers and mobile devices, and access online banking services from their computers and mobile devices. Because our business model relies on our clients’ use of their own personal computers, mobile devices, and the Internet, computer viruses and other attacks on our clients’ personal computer systems and mobile devices could create losses for our clients even without any breach in the security of our systems, and could thereby harm our business and our reputation. If we are unable to develop, manage, and maintain critical third party business relationships for our TaxACT business, it may be adversely affected. Our TaxACT business is dependent on the strength of our business relationships and our ability to continue to develop, maintain, and leverage new and existing relationships. We rely on various third party partners, including software and service providers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, contractors, financial institutions, licensing partners, among others, in many areas of this business to deliver our services and products. In certain instances, the products or services provided through these third party relationships may be difficult to replace or substitute, depending on the level of integration of the third party’s products or services into, or with, our offerings and/or the general availability of such third party’s products and services. In addition, there may be few or no alternative third party providers or vendors in the market. The failure of third parties to provide acceptable and high quality products, services, and technologies or to update their products, services, and technologies may result in a disruption to our business operations, which may reduce our revenues and profits, cause us to lose customers, and damage our reputation. Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner. In particular, our TaxACT business has relationships with banks, credit unions or other financial institutions, both as customers and as suppliers of certain critical services we offer to our other customers. If any of these institutions fail, consolidate, stop providing certain services, or institute cost-cutting efforts, our results may suffer and we may be unable to offer those services to our customers. We may be unable to effectively adapt to changing government regulations relating to tax preparation, which may harm our operating results. The tax preparation industry is heavily regulated at the state and federal level, and is frequently subject to significant new and revised laws and regulations. The application of these laws and regulations to our businesses is often unclear and compliance with these regulations may involve significant costs or require changes to our business practices. Any changes to our business practices that result from a change to laws or regulations, or from any change in the interpretation of a law or regulation (for example due to a court ruling or an administrative ruling or interpretation) may result in a negative impact on our operating results. We are also required to comply with a variety of IRS and state revenue agency standards in order to successfully operate our tax preparation and electronic filing services. Changes in these requirements, including the required use of specific technologies or technology standards, may significantly increase the costs of providing those services to our customers and may prevent us from delivering a quality product to our customers in a timely manner. In order to meet regulatory standards, we may be required to increase investment in compliance and auditing functions or new technologies. In addition, government authorities may enact other laws, rules or regulations that place new burdens or restrictions on our business or determine that our operations are directly subject to existing rules or regulations, such as requirements related to data collection, use, transmission, retention, processing and security, which may make our business more costly, less efficient or impossible to conduct, and may require us to modify our current or future products or services, which may harm our future financial results. 23 Table of Contents Restrictions on our ability to offer certain financial products related to our tax preparation services may harm our financial results. We offer certain financial products related to our tax preparation software and services, and we generate some of our Tax Preparation segment revenue from such products. These products include prepaid debit cards on which a tax filer may receive his or her tax return and the ability of certain of our users to have the fees for our services deducted from their tax return. Any regulation of these products by state or federal governments, or any competing products offered by state and federal tax collection agencies could impact our revenue from these financial products. In addition, litigation brought by consumers or state or federal agencies relating to these products may result in additional restrictions on the offering of these products. To the extent that any additional restrictions on our tax preparation related financial products restrict our ability to offer such products, our financial results may suffer. Unanticipated changes in income tax rates, deduction types, or the taxation structure may adversely affect our TaxACT business. Changes in the way that the state and federal governments structure their taxation regimes may affect our results. The introduction of a simplified or flattened taxation structure may make our services less necessary or attractive to individual filers. We also face risk from the possibility of increased complexity in taxation structures, which may encourage some of our customers to seek professional tax advice instead of using our software or services. In the event that such changes to tax structures cause us to lose market share, our results may suffer. If our TaxACT business fails to process transactions effectively or fails to adequately protect against disputed or potential fraudulent activities, our revenue and earnings may be harmed. Our TaxACT business processes a significant volume and dollar value of transactions on a daily basis. Due to the size and volume of transactions that we handle, effective processing systems and controls are essential to ensure that transactions are handled appropriately. Despite our efforts, it is possible that we may make errors or that fraudulent activity may affect our services. In addition to any direct damages and fines that any such problems may create, which may be substantial, a loss of confidence in our controls may seriously harm our business and damage our brand. The systems supporting our business are comprised of multiple technology platforms that are difficult to scale. If we are unable to effectively manage our systems and processes we may be unable to process customer data in an accurate, reliable, and timely manner, which may harm our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 