Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Any of these individual risks, or any number of these risks occurring simultaneously, could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. The below list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and political uncertainties Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States or abroad that may affect the general economic climate and our performance and the performance of our customers. The global 9 Table of Contents financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis has already had, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. For example, an extension of the credit crisis to other industries could adversely impact overall demand for our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access additional sources of capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility and ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, we are subject to various domestic and international risks and uncertainties, including changing social conditions and uncertainties relating to the current and future political climate. Changes in policy resulting from the new Presidential administration could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and the level of business activity of a certain segment of our market, specifically the defense industry, which may reduce our customers’ demand for our products and/or depress pricing of those products used in the defense industry or which have other military applications, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, and cash flows. A significant amount of our future revenue is based on long-term contracts for new aircraft programs We have signed several long-term contracts in recent years to produce titanium mill products and complex engineered assemblies for several new aircraft programs, including the Boeing 787, the JSF by Lockheed Martin, and the Airbus family of aircraft, including the A380 and the A350XWB. In order to meet the delivery requirements of these contracts, we have invested in significant capital expansion projects. A significant delay or cancellation in any one of these programs could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, and cash flows. The ability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost effective manner In connection with several of our long-term commercial contracts, we are undertaking several major capital expansion projects which are currently estimated to continue through 2011, including the construction of our new titanium sponge plant and titanium rolling mill and forging press facilities. The inability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. Our success will depend upon the ability of key financial and operational management to ensure the necessary internal and external resources are in place to properly complete and operate these expansion projects. We may be affected by our ability or inability to obtain financing Our ability to access the credit markets in the future to obtain additional financing, if needed, could be influenced by the Company’s ability to meet current covenant requirements associated with its existing credit agreement, its credit rating, or other factors. The demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by demand for our customers’ products and services Our business is substantially derived from titanium mill products and fabricated metal parts, which are primarily used by our customers as components in the manufacture of their products. The ability or inability to meet our financial expectations could be directly impacted by our customers’ abilities or inabilities to meet their own financial expectations. A downturn in demand for our customers’ products and services could occur for reasons beyond their control such as unforeseen spending constraints, competitive pressures, rising prices, the inability to contain costs, and other domestic as well as global economic, environmental or political factors. A slowdown in demand by or complete loss of business from these customers could have a material impact on our economic situation. 10 Table of Contents A substantial amount of revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries and a limited number of customers Approximately 84% of our annual revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries. Within those industries are a small number of consumers of titanium products. Those industries have shown the potential for sudden and dramatic changes in forecasted spending which can negatively impact the needs for our products and services. Some of our customers are particularly sensitive to the level of government spending on defense-related products. Sudden reductions in defense spending could occur due to economic or political changes which could result in a downturn in demand for defense-related titanium products. In addition, changes to existing defense procurement laws and regulations, such as the domestic preference for specialty metals, could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our customers are dependent on the commercial airline industry which has shown to be subject to significant economic and political challenges due to threats or acts of terrorism, rising or volatile fuel costs, aggressive competition, and other factors. Any one or combination of these factors could occur suddenly and result in a reduction or cancellation in orders of new airplanes and parts which could have an adverse impact on our business. Neither the Company nor its customers may be able to project or plan in a timely manner for the impact of these events that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Our competitors are located primarily in the U.S., Japan, Russia, Europe, and China. Russia, in particular, has significant capacity which could allow it to gain market share. Not only do we face competition for a limited number of customers with other producers of titanium products, but we also must compete with producers of other materials of construction. Our competitors could experience more favorable economic conditions than us including, better raw materials costs, favorable labor agreements, or other factors which could provide them with competitive advantages in their ability to provide goods and services. Our foreign competitors in particular may have the ability to offer goods and services to our customers at more favorable prices due to advantageous economic, environmental, political, or other factors. Titanium competes with other materials of construction including stainless steel, nickel- based high temperature and corrosion resistant alloys, and composites. Changes in costs or other factors related to the production and supply of titanium mill products compared to costs or other factors related to the production and supply of other types of materials of construction may negatively impact our business and the industry as a whole. New competitive forces unknown to us today could also emerge which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. We may experience a lack of supply of raw materials at costs that provide us with acceptable margin levels The raw materials required for the production of titanium products are acquired from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we have long-term contracts in place for the procurement of certain amounts of raw material and are in the process of constructing a titanium sponge plant, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers can fulfill their contractual obligations. Our suppliers may be adversely impacted by events within or outside of their control that could not be projected and that may adversely affect our business operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate amounts of raw materials from other suppliers in the event that our primary suppliers are unable to meet our needs. We may experience an increase in prices for raw materials which could have a negative impact on our profit margins if we are unable to effectively pass on these increases through product pricing, and we may not be able to project the impact that an increase in costs may cause in a timely manner. We may be contractually obligated to supply our customers at price levels that do not result in our expected margins due to unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials. We may experience dramatic increases in demand and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate levels of raw materials at prices that are within acceptable cost parameters in order to fulfill that demand. We are subject to changes in product pricing From time-to-time, excess supply and competition may result in fluctuations in the prices at which we are able to sell certain of our products. Price reductions may have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, our ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, often beyond our control. Given the long manufacturing lead times for certain products, financial benefits from increased prices may be delayed. 11 Table of Contents We may experience a shortage in the supply of energy or an increase in energy costs to operate our plants We own twenty-four natural gas wells which provide some but not all of the non-electrical energy required by our Niles, Ohio operations. Because our operations are reliant on energy sources from outside suppliers, we may experience significant increases in electricity and natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power, natural gas, or other resources due to natural disasters, interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes, or the inability to extend expiring energy supply contracts on economical terms. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages The 343 hourly, clerical and technical employees at our Niles, Ohio facility are represented by the United Steelworkers of America. Our current labor agreement with this union expires June 30, 2013. The 163 hourly employees at our RTI Tradco facility in Washington, Missouri are represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. Our current labor agreement with this union expires February 19, 2011. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate new bargaining agreements upon expiration of the existing agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by a labor stoppage. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement, or as a result of a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations We operate subsidiaries and conduct business with suppliers and customers in foreign countries which exposes us to risks associated with international business activities. We could be significantly impacted by those risks, which include the potential for volatile economic and labor conditions, political instability, expropriation, and changes in taxes, tariffs, and other regulatory costs. We are also exposed to and can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate of the United States Dollar against other foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound. Although we are operating primarily in countries with relatively stable economic and political climates, there can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by those risks inherent to international operations. We are dependent on services that are subject to price and availability fluctuations We depend on third parties to provide outside material processing services that may be critical to the manufacture of our products. Purchase prices and availability of these services are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain these critical services on a timely basis, at acceptable prices and other acceptable terms, or at all. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, management, metallurgists, and staff positions. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our Company’s ability to perform until suitable replacements are found. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. The demand for our products and services may be affected by factors outside of our control War, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues including pandemics whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a negative impact on the global economy as a whole. Our business operations, as well as our suppliers’ and customers’ business operations, are subject to interruption by those factors as well as other events beyond our control such as governmental regulations, fire, power shortages, and others. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or to receive materials from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by these events. 12 Table of Contents The outcome of the U.S. Customs investigation of our previously filed duty drawback claims is uncertain During 2007, the Company received notice from U.S. Customs indicating that certain duty drawback claims previously filed by the Company’s agent, on behalf of the Company, are under formal investigation. The investigation relates to discrepancies in, and lack of supporting documentation for, claims filed through the Company’s authorized agent. For additional detail regarding this investigation, see “Duty Drawback Investigation” in Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The ultimate outcome of the U.S. Customs investigation cannot be determined, however, the outcome of this investigation could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 