Risk Factors,” and “Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s opinions only as of the date thereof. We undertake no obligation to revise or publicly release the results of any revision of these forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review the risk factors described in the Annual Report and in other documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1. OUR BUSINESS Over the past twenty three years, Implant Sciences Corporation (the "Company"), incorporated in August 1984, has both developed and acquired technologies using ion implantation and thin film coatings for semiconductor and medical device applications, including the modification of orthopedic joint implant surfaces to reduce polyethylene wear generation and the coating of cardiovascular devices. This technology has further evolved to include new applications in the area of trace explosives detection products. Since May 1999, we have been performing research to develop and improve trace explosives detectors, which could be used to detect hidden bombs in airports and other public places. This is the latest application of our ion source technology. At present, we have developed both portable and bench-top systems for use in airports and Department of Defense facilities and have marketed and sold these products both domestically and internationally. In fiscal 2006, as part of a plan to reduce manufacturing costs, we transitioned the production of our handheld system to a contract manufacturer. As we continue to sell and deliver our security products, we work both independently and in conjunction with various government agencies, to develop the next generation of trace explosives detectors and to identify new applications for our proprietary technology. We currently have six issued United States patents and five United States patents pending covering our explosives detection technologies and processes. Other applications of our ion beam technology had been in the area of temporary brachytherapy products. In May 1999, we received Food and Drug Administration 510(k) clearance to market our I-PlantTM Iodine-125 radioactive seed for the treatment of prostate cancer and in 2001 recognized our first sale. This marked a major milestone for the Company by commercializing a product derived from a research and development program as well as representing a critical stage in our growth from a provider of ion implantation services for semiconductor and orthopedic applications to a manufacturer and seller of product in the form of radioactive prostate seeds. In June 2007, we sold certain assets associated with this product and divested the prostate seed and medical software business and will now only supply services and components of this product line. Management is currently working on a plan to keep the remaining assets in service. However, should management be unsuccessful in formalizing this plan, there is a possibility that future periods may report discontinued operations relating to these remaining assets. Our semiconductor business experienced substantial growth in FY 2005. This growth came through the acquisition of two California semiconductor companies, Core Systems, Inc. (“Core”) and Accurel Systems International Corporation (“Accurel”) in October 2004 and March 2005 respectively. Through these acquisitions, we more than doubled our semiconductor capacity and were able to offer diagnostic services, semiconductor equipment and refurbishment services to semiconductor manufacturers, research laboratories and universities. In May 2007, we sold our Accurel subsidiary which provided semiconductor analytical services. We currently have fourteen issued United States patents and three United States patents pending covering our semiconductor and medical technologies and processes. 2 Technologies General. We use three core technologies, ion implantation, thin film coatings and ion mobility spectrometry (“IMS”). With respect to each technology, we have developed proprietary processes and equipment for the purpose of improving or altering the surfaces of medical implants and semiconductor wafers and the ionizing and detection of trace explosives molecules. Ion implantation and thin film coatings are techniques first developed in the 1970’s to improve the functional surface properties of metals, ceramics and polymers, such as friction, wear, wetability and hardness. Ion implantation was initially developed as a means to dope semiconductors in the fabrication of integrated circuits. The accuracy, cleanliness and controllability of this process have made it the standard for semiconductor manufacturing. Ion implantation is generally preferred over other surface modification methods because it does not delaminate, does not require high temperatures and does not deform or alter the dimensions of the treated surface. Thin film coatings were initially developed to interconnect transistors on semiconductor chips. Thin films modify surfaces by layering a desired metal or ceramic coating on the substrate material. Common thin film coating techniques include chemical vapor deposition and physical vapor deposition. Ion mobility spectrometry, as opposed to the first two technologies, uses an ion beam to measure properties of the precursor molecules. IMS uses an ionizer to convert the subject molecules into ions so they can be accelerated by electric fields and travel down a cylindrical tube in an air medium. The measurement of the time of flight through a fixed distance enables the instrument to determine the mass and the relative concentration of the subject molecules in the analysis volume. This technology is particularly well suited to measure the identity and amount of explosives and/or narcotics vapor in air. Ion Implantation. Ion implantation is a process by which ions (electrically charged atoms) are accelerated to high velocity in a vacuum and directed toward a substrate or target material. The atoms become embedded just below the surface of the material producing an alloy composed of the atoms and the substrate material in the near-surface region of the target material. This surface alloy may have new mechanical, electrical, chemical, optical and other properties. We believe our proprietary technology, including high current ion sources and specialized component holding fixtures, provides higher ion implant doses and higher beam power and yields superior surface characteristics at lower cost than commercially available equipment. Ion implantation can be used to embed single isotopes of radioactive or non-radioactive elements into components. We are using our proprietary equipment to manufacture radioactive seed implants for the treatment of prostate cancer and other carcinomas which can be manufactured without expensive cyclotrons or linear accelerators and without hazardous radioactive wet chemistry, the methods currently employed by existing suppliers. Thin Film Coatings. A thin film coating is grown upon a substrate in a vacuum by the gradual deposition of atoms on the substrate. Our proprietary unbalanced magnetron sputtering process results in coatings that are extremely dense and free of voids, yielding good contrast and sharp edges under x-ray or fluoroscopic examination. These coatings usually consist of gold or platinum for radiopaque applications. Our proprietary manufacturing process allows for efficient utilization of precious metals and for cost effective recovery and recycling of these precious metals. We are also developing processes to coat stents, guidewires and catheters used in interventional cardiology procedures with substances, usually gold or platinum, that allow those stents, guidewires and catheters to be visible under x-ray observation during a procedure. We believe other techniques for applying thin film coatings are less desirable for medical device applications because of their inability to apply a dense coating, while continuing to be flexible and adhering to the substrate. Trace Explosives Detection. We have developed instruments which can detect the vapor from trace amounts of explosive compounds including plastic explosives such as RDX, the compound commonly found in C4 explosives. The systems works by ionizing explosive molecules in an air sample and then detecting the ionized molecules of the explosive using ion mobility spectrometry. The instruments have successfully detected molecules of five different types of explosives in the air at the parts per trillion concentrations. We believe this technology will provide commercial systems with improved sensitivity and capabilities than equipment presently available. 3 Security Products Trace Explosives Detection Equipment General. We have developed several explosive detection systems that could be used in airports, public and government buildings, and sporting event facilities. The systems use our proprietary technology, which includes the use of a photon-based non-radioactive ion source in combination with ion mobility spectrometry, to electronically detect minute quantities of explosive vapor molecules in the air. This product development has been ongoing since May 1999. This project was undertaken in response to the interest in ion beam phenomena by our research personnel who are constantly researching new applications for this technology. The development of new applications is typically funded through government grants or internal funding. In June 2000, we developed our first experimental device, which demonstrated sensitivity to the explosive TNT. In fiscal 2005 we began taking orders for and shipping product previously under development. New models with various special detection and sample acquisition capabilities have been developed almost on a yearly basis since then. These devices are able to detect and specify an increasing number of compounds within various explosive materials. The explosives that have been tested to date are TNT, RDX, PETN, EGDN, nitroglycerin, black powder, various smokeless powders, nitrocellulose, ammonium nitrate, urea nitrate, guanidine nitrate, TATP, HMTD, HMX, tetryl, and DNT. RDX is the primary component of C3 and C4 explosives, such as Detasheet and Semtex, as well as certain types of black powder explosives. We believe these explosives represent the majority of the explosives presently used in terrorist activities. The Company currently offers the QS-H150 portable detector, the QS-BP100 backpack-based portable explosives detector, and the QS BTS-150 benchtop detector. The electronic detection system detects microscopic quantities of explosive molecules in the air. The device does not use any radioactive materials and does not produce a danger to personnel operating the device or scanned by the device. The device is a sensor that receives signals that are already in the environment. Our electronic detection system uses a sensor that does not require physical contact to screen the article to detect trace residues. Since our device does not use a radioactive source, management believes it is safer than trace explosives residue detection systems currently in use. Consistent with our policy to protect our proprietary technologies, we have been awarded six patents and submitted five additional patent applications to the United States Patent and Trademark Office. These patent applications will cover specific design configurations that are responsible for our improved vapor detection sensitivity. The Company has outsourced the manufacturing of our current trace explosives detector products to a contract manufacturer. Semiconductor Products Semiconductor Ion Implantation General. We supply ion implantation services to numerous semiconductor manufacturers, research laboratories, and research universities. Ion implantation of electronic dopants into silicon, the process by which silicon is turned into a semiconductor, is an integral part of the integrated circuit fabrication process. While many of our customers have their own ion implantation equipment, they often use our services and specialized expertise for research and new product development because they do not want to interfere with production or because they are unable to perform the services themselves. In October 2004, we acquired Core Systems and doubled our semiconductor ion implantation equipment and capacity. This acquisition enabled us to expand our revenue base by affording us the opportunity to service a new pool of customers not available to us in the past as our existing ion implantation equipment limited our processing capabilities. In addition, through this acquisition, new revenue opportunities were gained the areas of semiconductor equipment refurbishing services and the sale of source conditioning equipment. In March 2005 we acquired Accurel Systems, and thru this acquisition, was able to offer analytical and failure analysis diagnostic services to the manufacturers of semiconductor products. In May 2007, we sold the assets of Accurel Systems. 4 Medical Products Permanent Implants for the Treatment of Prostate Cancer General. The alternatives generally presented to patients diagnosed with early stage prostate cancer are surgical removal of the prostate (radical prostatectomy) or external beam radiation. Both techniques frequently have significant side effects including impotence and incontinence. Brachytherapy has been an increasingly popular treatment technique whereby radioactive seeds (each of which is approximately half the size of a grain of rice) are permanently implanted into the prostate. This technique allows the delivery of highly concentrated yet confined doses of radiation directly to the prostate. Surrounding healthy tissues and organs are spared significant radiation exposure. Advances in transrectal ultrasound and computed tomography imaging equipment provide detailed and precise measurements of prostate size and shape, for seed distribution and placement. Prostate Seeds. We have developed, and been granted seven United States patents covering radioactive seeds, implants and methods of manufacturing radioactive seed implants by a proprietary process and other brachytherapy applications. We have received Food and Drug Administration 510(k) clearance to market our I-PlantTM Iodine-125 radioactive seed for the treatment of prostate cancer. Our 510(k) clearance permits treatment of any localized tumors treatable by temporary or permanent brachytherapy. A twelve-year study conducted by the Northwest Hospital, Seattle, Washington shows that this treatment has a twelve-year disease-free survival rate equal to surgical removal of the prostate and may be superior to other early stage treatments, with a substantial reduction in the negative side effects of impotence and incontinence, frequently associated with surgery and external beam radiation treatment. The National Cancer Institute and American Cancer Society have reported that sexual impotency after implantation of radioactive seeds has been 10 - 30%, which compares with rates of 65 - 90% for radical prostatectomy and 40 - 60% for external beam radiation therapy. Our production method, involving a proprietary dry fabrication process, does not use radioactive wet chemistry. On July 28, 1999 we received our Radioactive Sealed Source Registration Certificate, a Nuclear Regulatory Commission requirement administered by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a Nuclear Regulatory Commission Agreement State. These seeds have been on sale in the U.S. for seven years. Manufacturing. Management believes that the Company's manufacturing process results in lower capital equipment and manufacturing assembly costs and is less hazardous than the manufacturing processes used by our competitors. Other radioactive prostate seed manufacturers use radioactive wet chemistry during seed assembly for Iodine-125 products. Our dry process, for which we have two patents issued, uses a dry fabrication process, and we believe it requires fewer personnel and yields faster throughput. Following seed core ion implantation, we send the cores to a nuclear reactor for activation. Using this dry fabrication process, seed cores can be fabricated and inventoried in large quantities and activated only when ordered. Due to the short half-life of Iodine-125 (approximately 60 days), the competition must assemble and ship seeds on a tight schedule so they can be implanted into the patient at the appropriate radioactive strength. We maintain multiple source vendors for our raw materials supplies in the construction of our radioactive prostate seeds, including Trace Sciences International, Alfa Aesar, Mick Radio Nuclear, Quartz Plus and Braxton Manufacturing. Sales. Since August 2003, the Company has used its own direct sales force and several independent sales representatives to sell prostate seeds to many different customers. In June 2007, the company divested its prostate seed and medical software business. Treatment Planning Software General. In May 2005, Implant Sciences acquired proprietary treatment planning technology from Rosses Medical Systems, Inc. The Company is investing resources to enhance the capabilities of this product to include a new module which aids the physician in making 2 and 3 dimensional maps of the stage, grade and location of cancer within the prostate gland. This “Pathology Mapping ModuleTM” is in addition to the standard treatment planning function used for prostate brachytherapy and will provide for image guided, focal treatment for the disease. The product is being marketed as I-PlantTM TPS. Sales. This product was sold by our direct sales force. This product was divested in June, 2007. 5 Breast Cancer Radiation Treatment General. Early stage breast cancer is commonly treated by lumpectomy followed by a course of 35 sessions of external beam radiation to the whole breast over a seven week term. Over the past several years, Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation (APBI) has been increasing in popularity with patients because it can be completed in four to five days on an outpatient basis and has shown equal efficacy with good cosmetic outcomes. Approximately 600 to 1,000 patients have already been treated using this new temporary brachytherapy technique. Currently this treatment is performed using a conventional HDR (High Dose Radiation) system using an iridium -192 radioactive source. A significant drawback of the currently used iridium -192 source is that the treatments must be performed in a heavily concrete shielded room to prevent the very penetrating iridium -192 gamma rays irradiating people in hallways and adjacent rooms. A very small percentage of U.S. hospitals currently have such dedicated HDR concrete shielded rooms for brachytherapy. The Company has developed a new lower energy source, ytterbium -169 which can deliver the same therapeutic dose to the lumpectomy cavity and does not require a concrete shielded treatment room. The procedure can be done in an ordinary treatment room with some portable shielding around the patient using a conventional afterloader system. This source assembly has received a 510(k) pre-market clearance from the FDA and does not require clinical trials prior to commercial sales. Sales. We expect that the source wires will be sold by the manufacturers of the afterloaders or through direct selling efforts. This new product will be purchased by the Radiation Oncology Department of hospitals which is the same customer our existing prostate seed salesmen call on. Orthopedic Total Joint Replacements General. We provide surface engineering technology to manufacturers of orthopedic hip and knee total joint replacements. The majority of existing hip and knee joint replacements are made of a cobalt chromium femoral component that articulates against a polyethylene component. While offering excellent biocompatibility and superior wear resistance over prior alloys and designs and potentially longer average life than prior alloys, cobalt chromium devices still suffer from particle generation where the metal and polyethylene components articulate against each other. This particle generation has been identified as the primary cause of implant loosening due to osteolysis requiring repeat surgery. Orthopedics. We implant cobalt chromium components of total joint replacements manufactured by our customers with nitrogen ions. Nitrogen ion implantation of these components reduces polyethylene wear by modifying the native oxide present in cobalt chromium alloys. Laboratory tests and clinical studies have shown that nitrogen ion implanted cobalt chromium components offer superior performance over untreated components, significantly reducing wear and slowing the incidence of osteolysis which ultimately leads to revision surgery. Manufacturing. We believe we now operate one of the highest beam-current ion implanters used in the medical field. This equipment has higher throughput and lower cost than equipment with a lower beam-current. For our new second-generation orthopedic coating, this equipment can provide a ceramic coating with superior characteristics due to its patented “blended interface” process. We maintain multiple source vendors for our gas supplies, the primary raw material used in the ion implantation process in providing this service, including Praxair and Matheson. Sales. We currently implant cobalt chromium components of total joint replacements made by our customers with nitrogen ions and are developing ceramic ion beam synthesis techniques for total joint replacements. We receive untreated cobalt chromium total joint replacements from our customers and implant them at our facility. We then invoice and ship the implanted total joint replacements to our customers. Sales of orthopedic coatings declined in 2007 as a major customer changed its processing. We expect this trend to continue in 2008. Markets. Osteoarthritis is a natural result of the aging process and is the predominant cause of the need for joint replacement. We believe that longer life expectancy as well as the growth in the number of people over age 50 will cause the demand for total joint replacement to increase. According to the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, the hip and knee total joint replacement market was estimated to be 650,000 procedures in the United States. Our next generation surface treatment using ion beam synthesized ceramic has been shown to decrease wear debris generation by two-thirds, which we believe will reduce osteolysis and thereby reduce the need for revision surgery. 6 Microfused™ Coatings. We have developed proprietary ion assisted coating deposition methods for applying metallic coatings to a variety of substrates for uses on medical devices. The family of processes known as Microfusion™ results in coatings which are biocompatible, extremely dense, free of voids, and display tenacious adhesion. Applications include but are not limited to: (i) radiopaque coatings used to increase the visibility of devices under x-ray or fluoroscopy during interventional cardiology and other catheter based procedures, (ii) conductive coatings and thin film electrodes used to carry and deliver current to or from targeted tissue for use in electrophysiological mapping, neuromodulation, and tissue ablation applications, and (iii) bioceramic coatings Nano-hydroxyapatite coatings using Nan-Oss™, Angstrom Medica’s patented nanometer sized particulate hydroxyapatite material. Our Nano-hydroxyapatite coating is a hard, glassy, bioceramic that cannot be easily scratched off the surface once deposited. Additionally, engineering development services are available to our customers to develop new applications of our Microfusion coating technology. Marketing and Sales Our marketing and sales methods vary according to the characteristics of each of our main business areas. Sales and marketing to the medical device markets are through our own direct sales force. Our semiconductor segment includes implant services and implant diagnostic services. Our Vice President, General Manager of Core Systems, along with an inside sales staff and several independent sales representatives, are responsible for semiconductor ion implantation services, including disk refurbishment and source conditioner sales. Our Vice President of Security Products Sales and Marketing is responsible for sales and marketing of our trace explosives technology, assisted by an inside sales staff and international sales reps. The Company uses both inside direct sales personnel and independent sales representatives to sell our products. The solicitation and proposal process for research and development contracts and grants are conducted by our President, our Chief Scientist, and our scientific staff. Medical Sales and Marketing To promote sales of our radioactive prostate seeds and treatment planning systems, we exhibited at various medical trade shows, including the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) show and the American Society for Therapeutics Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) show, which are attended by the vast majority of our potential customers. Sales were then concluded by our Director of Brachytherapy Products and several independent sales representatives. In the business of ion implantation for total joint replacements, we concentrate on identifying and serving leading manufacturers. Where possible, we attempt to become the sole provider of devices or surface engineering services to each such manufacturer. Our marketing and sales efforts require considerable direct contact and typically involve a process of customer education in the merits of our technology. We accomplish this by first researching customer needs, and through presentations at customer sites. Our research and development programs, both independent and in conjunction with a customer specific need, as well as our patent portfolio, are integral components of the marketing process. To promote sales of our MicrofusedTM coatings, we attend trade shows, use press releases and call customers who we believe have an application for our technology. Once a customer's interest is established, the sales process proceeds with an initial demonstration project funded by the customer. A set of developmental runs are then performed to determine project feasibility and to roughly optimize a parameter set for deposition. After testing the samples generated, and considering cost estimates for production quantities, the customer may authorize us to proceed to pilot production. 7 In pilot production, typically, several hundred units are produced in a manner equivalent to the envisioned full production method. Pilot production may be done on an existing piece of equipment with customer/device specific fixturing, or on a prototype machine, depending on the complexity of the process and device. Samples made in pilot production are fabricated into complete devices and used by the customer for further testing, clinical studies, FDA submissions, and marketing and sales efforts. Semiconductor Sales and Marketing Since semiconductor ion implantation is a standard process in all integrated circuit fabrication, customers usually know what they want and little education is necessary. Our services are promoted and sold through trade shows, advertising in trade magazines, direct mailings and press releases. Most of our specialty implant sales are between $600 and $2,500 per order and take less than one day to complete. The entire sales effort is often conducted by telephone. Our sales range from production customers to outsourced customer-specified ion implantation services, which the customer's own ion implantation department is unable or unwilling to perform, to small research projects. Production implant sales are usually through long-term blanket purchase orders where our services are integrated seamlessly into our customer’s production line. Government Contracts Research and development contracts from the U.S. government must be won through a competitive proposal process which undergoes peer review. We are in contact with the National Institutes of Health, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies at technical conferences to stay informed of the government's needs. We believe our management and senior scientific staff have earned a strong reputation with these and other agencies. To date we have been awarded research and development contracts by the National Institute of Health, the Department of Defense, the National Science Foundation, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Homeland Security. Research and Development Our technical staff consists of 13 scientists and engineers, including three with Ph.D. degrees, and the remaining with Masters Degrees, Bachelor Degrees or with expertise in physical sciences and engineering. All of our existing and planned products rely on proprietary technologies developed in our research and development laboratories. Our research and development efforts may be self-funded, funded by corporate partners or by awards under the Small Business Innovative Research and other programs of the U.S. government. Under the Small Business Innovative Research program, we retain the right to patent anything developed pursuant to the program, however, the U.S. government retains a royalty free license to use the technology. We have obtained over $20 million in U.S. government grants and contracts over the past 19 years. Each research and development agreement with our corporate partners defines the rights to these agreements. We spent approximately $1,844,000, $1,313,000 and $1,942,000 on internally funded research and development in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Patents and Proprietary Technology It is our policy to protect our proprietary position by, among other methods, filing United States and foreign patent applications. We currently have twenty issued United States patents and eight United States patent applications pending. Of the twenty patents issued, six are of material importance to us and are in the explosives detection. These six material patents expire in the years 2021 through 2024. We intend to seek further patents on our technologies, if appropriate. However, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued for any of our pending or future applications or that any claim allowed from such applications will be of sufficient scope or strength, or be issued in all countries where we sell our products and services, to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how and we do not know if others will independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes, that such technology or know-how will not be disclosed or that we can meaningfully protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets or know-how. Although we have entered into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants, we cannot be sure such non-disclosure agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary know-how. 8 Government Regulation and Environmental Matters Medical devices incorporating our technologies, such as interventional cardiology devices are subject to FDA regulation. The burden of securing FDA clearance or approval for these core business medical devices rests with our customers who use our processes within their medical devices. Since the Company divested its prostate seed and medical software business in June 2007, the facility will no longer be a registered medical device manufacturer. The Company will now only supply services and components to medical device manufacturers. Our medical device manufacturing facility operates under the FDA Quality System Regulation. Our facility, located in Wakefield, Massachusetts, was registered with the FDA in July 2000 prior to the introduction and commercial sales of our radioactive prostate seed product. Our facility was subject to the FDA’s inspection at any time. The FDA has inspected Implant Sciences’ medical manufacturing facilities in August 2003, and found its Quality System to meet their requirements. Implant Sciences’ Quality Systems Manager ensures adherence to the FDA’s Quality System Regulations as well as to the ISO 9001 and ISO 13485 standards. Certain activities of ours are regulated by, and require approvals from, other federal and state agencies such as the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aeronautics Administration. In order to ship our radioactive prostate seed product from our facility, we were required to obtain a radioactive sealed source registration from the Massachusetts Department of Public Health. This certificate required no maintenance or renewal as long as the design of the radioactive prostate seed was not changed. On July 28, 1999, we received our Radioactive Sealed Source Registration Certificate, a Nuclear Regulatory Commission requirement, administered by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as a Nuclear Regulatory Commission Agreement State. The State Radiation Control Program issued to us a license to manufacture and distribute our radioactive prostate seed product. The State Radiation Control Program performs periodic inspections of our facility. The State Radiation Control Program has performed numerous inspections of the facility and identified no violations or deficiencies. Furthermore, our use, management, transportation, and disposal of certain chemicals and wastes are subject to regulation by several federal and state agencies depending on the nature of the chemical or waste material. Certain toxic chemicals and products containing toxic chemicals require special reporting to the United States Environmental Protection Agency and/or its state counterparts. We are not aware of any specific environmental liabilities that we could incur. Our future operations may require additional approvals from federal and/or state environmental agencies, the cost and effects of which cannot be determined at this time. Competition Many medical device manufacturers have developed or are engaged in efforts to develop internal surface modification technologies for use on their own products. Most companies that market surface modification to the outside marketplace are divisions of organizations with businesses in addition to surface modification. Many of our existing and potential competitors (including medical device manufacturers pursuing coating solutions through their own research and development efforts) have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. 9 With respect to our coating products, we primarily compete with Spire Corporation, Ion Bond, LLC, and BryCoat Inc. Competition within the coatings industry is primarily conducted on the basis of service and product design. Price competition has abated somewhat in the case of first time and more youthful patients where higher-cost and more durable reconstructive devices are preferred. We attempt to differentiate ourselves from our competition by providing what we believe are high value-added solutions to surface modification. We believe that the primary factors customers consider in choosing a particular surface modification technology are performance, ease of manufacturing, ability to produce multiple properties from a single process, compliance with manufacturing regulations, customer service, pricing, turnaround time, and the ability to work with a variety of materials. We believe that our process competes favorably with respect to these factors. We believe that the cost and time required to acquire equipment and technical engineering talent, as well as to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, significantly reduces the likelihood of a manufacturer changing the coating process it uses after a device has been approved for marketing. Our competition in the semiconductor industry consists primarily of one company: Innovion Corporation. This company is located in San Jose, California and primarily serves the silicon wafer production needs of semiconductor factories in their local area. We serve both east and west coast factories with silicon production and research and development laboratories worldwide. In the trace explosives detection industry, General Electric (GE Security) and Smiths Detection are our two primary competitors. These two companies also use ion mobility spectrometry; however, they use a radioactive 63Ni source to ionize the explosive molecules. Out technology differs from the competition in that we do not have a radioactive ion source, we have low operating costs, and can do “real time” detection. We believe our patented technology provides our device with greater operating advantages and less regulatory restrictions Many of our competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater capital resources than we do and also have greater resources and expertise in the areas of research and development, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. There can be no assurance that our competitors and potential competitors will not succeed in developing, marketing and distributing technologies and products that are more effective than those developed and marketed by us or that would render our technology and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, there is no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively against such competitors and potential competitors in terms of manufacturing, marketing and sales. Employees As of June 30, 2007, we had 91 full time employees. We believe we maintain good relations with our employees. None of our employees are represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Geographic Areas The majority of the Company’s revenues are derived from domestic sales. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, foreign sales represented 31% of total revenue. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, foreign sales represented 26% of revenue with one customer from China representing 17% of the Company’s annual revenues. For fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, foreign sales represented less than 10% of total revenue. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations. In light of the important factors that can materially affect results, including those set forth in this paragraph and below, the inclusion of forward-looking information herein should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the objectives or plans of the Company will be achieved. Assumptions relating to budgeting, marketing, and other management decisions are subjective in many respects and thus susceptible to interpretations and periodic revisions based on actual experience and business developments, the impact of which may cause the Company to alter its marketing, or other budgets, which may in turn affect the Company's financial position and results of operations. The reader is therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements contained herein, which speak solely as of the date of this Form 10-K. The Company assumes no responsibility to update any forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 10 The following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business: The Company has received a modified audit opinion on its ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report our independent registered public accounting firm issued on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 contains a modification regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. This modification indicates that there is substantial doubt on the part of our independent registered public accounting firm that we can continue as a going concern in that we did not have sufficient cash and liquid assets at June 30, 2007, to cover our operating capital requirements for the next twelve-month period and if sufficient cash cannot be obtained we would have to substantially alter our operations, or we may be forced to discontinue operations. Such an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may limit our ability to access certain types of financing, or may prevent us from obtaining financing on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that the auditor will not qualify their opinion in the future. We do not operate at a profit and do not expect to be profitable for some time. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2007, we had a loss from continuing operations of approximately $9,924,000. We plan to further increase our expenditures to complete the development and commercialization of our new products, and to broaden our sales and marketing capabilities. As a result, we believe that we will likely incur losses over the next several quarters. Our accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2007 is approximately $47,927,000. Management believes that our existing cash resources, cash proceeds from the sale of Accurel, cash from operations and the availability on our revolving line of credit will meet working capital requirements over the next twelve months. However, unanticipated decreases in operating revenues, unanticipated decreases in the market value of our common stock, delays in government funding of grants, increases in expenses or further delays in product development may adversely impact our cash position and require further cost reductions. No assurance can be given that we will be able to operate profitably on a consistent basis. Intense competition and rapid technological change could harm our financial performance. In our semiconductor market we compete with many companies, including companies that have in-house capabilities to implant, diagnose and repair their own wafers. In our explosives detection equipment market, we compete with many companies, including companies that have substantially greater capital resources, greater research and development, manufacturing and marketing resources and experience and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, we expect new entrants into our markets. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than our products or that would render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. We believe that our ability to compete in the explosive detection systems market is based upon such factors as: product performance, functionality, quality and features; quality of customer support services, documentation and training; and the capability of the technology to appeal to broader applications beyond the inspection of passengers, baggage, and cargo carried on airlines. Although we believe that our currently developed product has all of the capabilities to meet the United States government’s decree that all passengers, baggage, and cargo carried on airlines must be screened thoroughly, certain of our competitors may have an advantage over our existing technology with respect to these factors. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in convincing potential customers that our products will be superior to other systems given all of the necessary performance criteria, that new systems with comparable or greater performance, lower price and faster or equivalent throughput will not be introduced, or that, if such products are introduced, customers will not delay or cancel potential orders for us yet to be commercialized system. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to bring to commercialization and further enhance our product to better compete on the basis of cost, throughput, accommodation of detection of passengers, baggage or other cargo carried onto airlines, or that we will otherwise be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to price our products and services at or below the prices of competing products and technologies in order to facilitate market acceptance. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to technological changes through the development and introduction of new products and enhancements. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. Our failure to compete or respond to technological change in an effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 11 Our medical products and technologies may not be accepted by the medical community which could harm our financial performance. There can be no assurance that our medical coatings and/or new products will achieve acceptance, or continue to receive acceptance, by the medical community and market acceptance generally. The degree of market acceptance for our products and services will also depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals and the establishment and demonstration in the medical community and among health care payers of the clinical safety, efficacy and cost effectiveness of our products. Certain of the medical indications that can be treated by our devices or devices treated using our coatings can also be treated by other medical procedures. There can be no assurance that our devices or technologies will be able to replace such established treatments or that physicians, health care payers, patients or the medical community in general will accept and utilize our devices or any other medical products that may be developed or treated by us even if regulatory and reimbursement approvals are obtained. Long-term market acceptance of our products and services will depend, in part, on the capabilities, operating features and price of our products and technologies as compared to those of other available products and services. Failure of our products and technologies to gain market acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our explosives detection products and technologies may not be accepted by government agencies, airports or airlines which could harm our future financial performance. There can be no assurance that our explosives detection systems will achieve wide acceptance by the domestic and international airports, government agencies and airlines, and market acceptance generally. The degree of market acceptance for our explosives detection products and services will also depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals and the establishment and demonstration of the ability of our proposed device to detect trace explosives residues on personnel, baggage and other cargo prior to embarking on aircraft. Our failure to commercially develop our product to compete successfully with respect to throughput, the ability to scan personnel, baggage and other cargo carried onto airlines, and portability could delay, limit or prevent market acceptance. Moreover, the market for explosives detection systems technology, especially trace detection technology, is largely undeveloped, and we believe that the overall demand for explosives detection systems technology will depend significantly upon public perception of the risk of terrorist attacks. There can be no assurance that the public will perceive the threat of terrorist bombings to be substantial or that the airline industry and governmental agencies will actively pursue explosives detection systems technology. Long-term market acceptance of our products and services will depend, in part, on the capabilities, operating features and price of our products and technologies as compared to those of other available products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance, if the currently developed prototype product is brought to a commercial product, that we will be able to achieve market penetration, revenue growth or profitability. Our future profitability depends on whether we can successfully develop new products and compete in the commercial marketplace. We currently provide ion implantation services for ion implantation of semiconductors and medical devices. We plan to market radiopaque coatings, and explosive detection systems that may require substantial further investment in research, product development, preclinical and clinical testing and governmental regulatory approvals prior to being marketed and sold. Our ability to increase revenues and achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend, in part, on our ability to complete such product development efforts, obtain such regulatory approvals, and establish manufacturing and marketing programs and gain market acceptance for such proposed products. Our product development efforts are subject to the risks inherent in the development of such products. These risks include the possibility that development costs will be much greater than currently anticipated, that our products will be found to be ineffective or unsafe, or will otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; that the products will be difficult to manufacture on a large scale or be uneconomical to market; that the proprietary rights of third parties will interfere with our product development; or that third parties will market superior or equivalent products which achieve greater market acceptance. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to conduct our product development efforts within the time frames currently anticipated or that such efforts will be completed successfully. 12 There are risks relating to our Development, Distribution and Manufacturing Agreement with Rapiscan Systems, Inc. In March of 2005, we entered into a Development, Distribution and Manufacturing Agreement (the “Agreement”) with Rapiscan Systems, Inc. (“Rapiscan”). Under the terms of this agreement, we gave Rapiscan the exclusive worldwide rights to market our Quantum SnifferTM portable and benchtop trace detection devices under their private label. We also agreed to give Rapiscan the exclusive worldwide rights to distribute certain other new security products which we may develop in the future with their funding, as well as rights, in some circumstances, to manufacture certain components of the Quantum SnifferTM portable and benchtop trace detection devices. In March 2006, the Company brought suit against Rapiscan and its parent, OSI Systems, Inc. The Company is requesting rescission of the Agreement, for lack of performance and other grounds or in the alternative, termination of the Agreement due to material breaches of contract and implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and for damages. Should the Company be unsuccessful in prosecuting its lawsuit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In March 2006, the Company received notice that Rapiscan filed a complaint against the Company regarding the Agreement. Rapiscan’s complaint is based upon claims of breach of contract, breach of warranty and tortuous interference with contractual relations and is requesting a decree for specific performance, declaratory relief and injunctive relief. Should the Company be unsuccessful in defending itself in the lawsuit, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In August 2006, as a result of motions made by both parties, the two lawsuits have been consolidated in the United States District Court for the Central District of California with the Company as plaintiff. In late 2006, Rapiscan and OSI filed a motion to dismiss certain of the Company’s claims. The court dismissed Company’s claim of breach of fiduciary duty, but OSI’s motion to dismiss was denied in all other respects. The parties are presently near the end of the discovery process, which should be completed by November 2007. OSI and Rapiscan have filed motions for partial summary judgment with respect to certain discrete claims. The motions are under advisement. Trial is expected in the summer 2008. Should the Company be unsuccessful in prosecuting this matter, it may have a material adverse effect on its business and results of operations. We own patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property and know-how that we believe allows us to compete effectively. Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property or continue to use our intellectual property could harm our financial performance. Our ability to compete effectively will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Many participants in the medical device area aggressively seek patent protection and have increasing numbers of patents, and have frequently demonstrated a readiness to commence litigation based on patent infringement. Third parties may assert exclusive patent rights to technologies that are important to us. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain new patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although we have twenty (20) United States patents issued and eight (8) United States patent applications pending for our technology and processes, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain the patents applied for and maintain trade secret protection for our technology and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. The validity and breadth of claims in medical technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that any pending patent applications or any future patent application will issue as patents, that the scope of any patent protection obtained will be sufficient to exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us, that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently challenged or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued or that may be issued in the future to us. In addition, whether or not patents are issued to us, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products or processes developed by us. 13 Moreover, there can be no assurances that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights thereunder will provide any competitive advantage. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted to third parties. Patents and patent applications in the United States may be subject to interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent & Trademark Office, or to opposition proceedings initiated in a foreign patent office by third parties. We may incur significant costs defending such proceedings. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we could encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes, that such technology or know-how will not be disclosed or that we can meaningfully protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, or know-how. Although we have entered into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants, there can be no assurance that such non-disclosure agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary know-how. If we are not successful in managing our future growth, our business will suffer. We have limited experience in the commercial production of explosives detection systems. Our future success will depend upon, among other factors, our ability to recruit, hire, train and retain highly educated, skilled and experienced management and technical personnel, to generate capital from operations, to bring new products to market, and to manage the effects of growth on all aspects of our business, including research, development, manufacturing, distribution, sales and marketing, administration and finance. Our failure to identify and exploit new product and service opportunities, attract or retain necessary personnel, generate adequate revenues or conduct our expansion or manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our research and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials. Any liability resulting from the misuse of such hazardous materials could adversely affect our business. Our research and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling, manufacturing, distributing, transporting and disposing of such materials comply with the standards for protection of human health, safety, and the environment, prescribed by local, state, federal and international regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Nor can we eliminate the risk that one or more of our hazardous material or hazardous waste handlers may cause contamination for which, under laws imposing strict liability, we could be held liable. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts which we believe are appropriate in light of the risk of accident, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Product liability claims could damage our reputation and hurt our financial results. To date no product liability claims have been asserted against us; however, the testing, marketing and sale of implantable devices and materials entail an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us, if the use of our devices is alleged to have adverse effects on a patient, including exacerbation of a patient's condition, further injury, or death. A product liability claim or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain of our devices are designed to be used in treatments of diseases where there is a high risk of serious medical complications or death. If our suppliers cannot provide the components or services we require, our ability to manufacture our products could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of suppliers to provide materials and services used to manufacture our products. If we cannot obtain adequate quantities of necessary materials and services from our suppliers, there can be no assurance that we would be able to access alternative sources of supply within a reasonable period of time or at commercially reasonable rates. Moreover, in order to maintain our relationship with major suppliers, we may be required to enter into preferred supplier agreements that will increase the cost of materials obtained from such suppliers, thereby also increasing the prices of our products. The limited sources, the unavailability of adequate quantities, the inability to develop alternative sources, a reduction or interruption in supply or a significant increase in the price of raw materials or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 If our contract manufacturer cannot provide the services we require, our ability to manufacture our products could be harmed. We rely on a single contract manufacturer to provide manufacturing services for our explosives detection products. If these services become unavailable, we would be required to identify and enter into an agreement with a new contract manufacturer or take the manufacturing in house. The loss of our contract manufacturer could significantly disrupt production as well as increase the cost of production, thereby also increasing the prices of our products. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we cannot attract and retain the management, sales and other personnel we need, we will not be successful. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the high technology field, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. The loss of the services of existing personnel as well as the failure to recruit additional qualified scientific, technical, sales and managerial personnel in a timely manner would be detrimental to our anticipated growth and expansion into areas and activities requiring additional expertise such as marketing. The failure to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our assessments as to the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company's internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company's financial statements must attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting. While we will begin to develop the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. If we fail to implement required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations. In our report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2007, our independent auditors have reported to our Audit Committee certain matters involving internal controls that our independent auditors considered to be a significant deficiency. A significant deficiency is a control deficiency or combination of control deficiencies, that adversely affects the company’s ability to initiate, authorize, record, process, or report external financial data reliably in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles such that there is more than a remote likelihood that a misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements that is more than inconsequential will not be prevented or detected. The reportable condition related primarily to the analysis conducted in regards to the annual goodwill impairment testing. Management is confident that our financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2007 fairly present, in all material respects, our financial condition and results of operations. The reportable condition has been discussed in detail among management, our Audit Committee and our independent auditors, and we are committed to addressing and resolving these matters fully and promptly, by putting in place the personnel, processes, technology and other resources appropriate to improve the communication between our subsidiary and the parent company as well as to provide better forecasting models. As part of this commitment, in the second quarter of our fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, we will begin by educating the staff and formalizing the forecasting procedures in order to ensure timely and accurate forecasts are provided to management. Management will continue to evaluate these procedures to improve the process. 15 We cannot assure you that we will successfully address the issues raised by our independent auditors above. If we are unable to do so, and a misstatement, error or fraud is committed and remains undetected, we may suffer a material adverse effect to our results of operations. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly, which could adversely affect our stock price. We believe that our operating results may be subject to substantial quarterly fluctuations due to several factors, some of which are outside our control, including fluctuating market demand for, and declines in the average selling price of our products, the timing of significant orders from customers, delays in the introduction of new or improved products, delays in obtaining customer acceptance of new or changed products, the cost and availability of raw materials, and general economic conditions. We plan to further increase our expenditures to complete development and commercialization of our new products, to increase our manufacturing capacity, to ensure compliance with the Food and Drug Administration's Quality Systems Regulations and to broaden our sales and marketing capabilities. A substantial portion of our revenue in any quarter historically has been derived from orders booked in that quarter, and historically, backlog has not been a meaningful indicator of revenues for a particular period. Accordingly, our sales expectations currently are based almost entirely on our internal estimates of future demand and not from firm customer orders. We will be required to redeem the Series D Preferred for cash if the five day average market price of our common stock, prior to a redemption date, is less than 110% of the fixed conversion price. We will be required to redeem the Series D Preferred for cash if the following conditions are not met: (1) the shares must be issued pursuant to an effective registration statement, (2) the average closing market price of the common stock for the five trading days immediately preceding a payment date must exceed the fixed conversion price of $4.15 by 110% and no one day’s closing price may be less than the fixed conversion price, and (3) the conversion dollar value may not exceed the aggregate of the prior 22 trading days’ dollar volume. We cannot be certain that we will be able to redeem the monthly payment in shares of common stock on a redemption date given the fixed conversion price of the preferred stock and the associated market price of the common stock on a redemption date. If we are required to redeem monthly payments in cash, this will reduce our working capital necessary for our operations. Failure of our ability to convert preferred shares into common shares will have a material adverse affect on our cash resources. We may be required to reduce or curtail certain operations and research and development projects to improve our cash resources. As of October 11, 2007 the closing price of our common stock was $2.03 per share. As of June 30, 2007, the outstanding balance is approximately $3,939,000. If third party credit is unavailable, our working capital could be restricted; restrictions on our ability to raise additional capital under certain circumstances. Currently, we rely on cash generated from our operations, private equity financing and third party credit for working capital purposes. If such financing is no longer available at acceptable rates, we would be required to reduce or curtail our operations and research and development projects. This would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by our stockholders that are non-affiliates that have satisfied a two year holding period. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 16 Because of certain limitation on director/officer liability, our stockholders may have limited rights to recover for breach of fiduciary duty. As permitted by Massachusetts law, our Restated Articles of Organization limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director's fiduciary duty except for liability in certain instances. As a result of our charter provision and Massachusetts law, stockholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breach of fiduciary duty. In addition, our bylaws provide that we shall indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents if such persons acted in good faith and reasoned that their conduct was in our best interest. We have no history of paying dividends on our common stock. We have never paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We plan to retain any future earnings to finance growth. If we decide to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock, such dividends may not be paid on a timely basis. The anti-takeover provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and of the Massachusetts corporation law may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any acquisition, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction, without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stockholders must give substantial advance notice prior to the relevant meeting to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable ITEM 