Risk Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” all of which you should review carefully. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if our underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what we anticipate. Please consider our forward-looking statements in light of those risks as you read this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. CONVENTIONS Private Media Group, Inc. is a Nevada holding company that operates through various controlled subsidiaries. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references herein to “Private Media,” “the Company,” 1 Table of Contents “we” or “us” refer collectively to Private Media Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. References to “EUR” refer to the euro, the official currency of the eurozone countries of the European Union, and all references to “dollars” or $ are to United States dollars. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Private Media Group, Inc. is a leading international provider of branded adult media across a wide range of digital platforms and physical formats. We conduct our operations through various non-U.S. subsidiaries located in a number of countries, including Cyprus, Sweden, Spain and Gibraltar. We acquire worldwide rights to adult media produced for us by independent producers and then process this content into products suitable for popular physical media formats such as print publications, DVDs, digital media platforms (such as internet websites, mobile telephony and transactional television), and broadcasting (which includes cable, satellite and IPTV (Internet Protocol Television)). Our branded adult media is available at physical retail locations and through electronic retailers as well as on mobile devices, transaction television platforms and over the Internet. In addition, we provide adult entertainment films to thousands of major hotels around the world. To a lesser extent, in addition to branded adult media products, we also market and distribute branded leisure and novelty products oriented to the adult entertainment lifestyle and generate additional sales through the licensing of our Private trademark to third parties. Recent Events—Changes in Management; Current Restructuring; Issuance of 6% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and Change of Control. Operations Under Prior Management. Private Media was founded in 1965 by Berth H. Milton Sr. and achieved initial success through our flagship publication, Private, the world’s first full color, hard-core sex publication. In 1998 Private Media acquired a U.S. public company and, thereby, became a public company. Since 1998, Berth H. Milton Jr., Berth H. Milton Sr.’s son (all further references to “Milton” refer to Berth H. Milton Jr.) was beneficially the principal shareholder of Private Media and, during most of those years, served as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Since 1998 the Company engaged in a number of transactions with Mr. Milton, including the purchase of its European headquarters from one of his affiliated companies in 2002. In addition, during this period the Company made numerous “short-term loans” to Mr. Milton’s off-shore companies. These loans were unsecured, had no maturity date and no repayment terms. The outstanding balance of these loans grew from EUR 1 million in 2001 to over EUR 4.2 million in 2004, to EUR 5.9 million at December 31, 2005, EUR 6.4 million at December 31, 2006, EUR 6.7 million at December 31, 2007, and EUR 7.2 million at December 31, 2011 (the “Slingsby Loans”). Mr. Milton has not repaid the Slingsby Loans, and, because of the uncertainty as to Private Media’s ability to collect these loans, in 2010 the Company fully reserved (wrote off) the entire amount of the Slingsby Loans on its financial statements. In 2001, Private Media borrowed $4 million from Commerzbank AG (the “Commerzbank Note”). The Company’s obligations were secured by a guaranty and by a pledge of 5,600,000 shares of Private Media’s stock held by Slingsby Enterprises Limited (“Slingsby”), an affiliate of Mr. Milton, who, at the time, was the Company’s Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and principal shareholder. The Commerzbank Note was acquired by Consipio Holding BV (“Consipio”). The Commerzbank Note matured in March 2003. Following the acquisition of the Commerzbank Note by Consipio, Private Media and Consipio engaged in discussions to revise the terms of the promissory note and to extend its maturity date to 2008. In 2008 Consipio declared the promissory note to be in default and demanded that it be repaid. On May 1, 2009, Consipio filed a lawsuit against Private Media, Slingsby, and Mr. Milton in U.S. federal court to enforce the Commerzbank Note. That lawsuit was dismissed on technical grounds and re-filed in May 2010 in New York State Court. The complaint alleged the failure to pay the Commerzbank Note. On August 30, 2011 the New York Court issued an Order of 2 Table of Contents Attachment pursuant to which New York City and state officials were ordered to attach, by levy, Private Media’s New York assets for the sum of $7.35 million. As discussed below, Private Media’s new management since then settled that lawsuit. In 2009, Private Media decided to expand its operations by making two acquisitions. In January 2009 Private Media expanded its internet operations through the acquisition of Game Link LLC and its affiliates (collectively, “Game Link”). Game Link is based in San Francisco, California, U.S.A. and is engaged in digital distribution of adult content over the Internet and in eCommerce development, primarily in the United States. Shortly after this acquisition, Ilan Bunimovitz (“Mr. Bunimovitz”), a principal of Game Link, was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of Private Media. In October 2009, Private Media purchased the businesses of Entruphema Inc. and Sureflix Digital Distribution Inc. (collectively, “Sureflix”). Sureflix is based in Toronto, Canada, and is engaged in the digital distribution of branded gay adult media over the Internet. As part of the Sureflix acquisition, Eric Johnson (“Mr. Johnson”), an affiliate of Sureflix, was appointed to Private Media’s Board of Directors. These two acquisitions significantly changed Private Media’s historical scope of operations, both geographically and by significantly increasing its distribution of gay adult media. While the two acquisitions substantially increased the size of the operations of Private Media, prior management had internal management conflicts with the managers of the two acquired companies. In July 2010, Mr. Bunimovitz was terminated as Chief Executive Officer of Private Media, and Mr. Milton was appointed as the Chief Executive Officer. On July 23, 2010, Mr. Bunimovitz filed a JAMS arbitration action against Private Media contesting his termination as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Bunimovitz alleged, among other things, that his termination was taken in retaliation for Mr. Bunimovitz demanding an independent investigation of Mr. Milton’s alleged self-dealing transactions, including Mr. Milton’s failure to repay a part of the outstanding Slingsby Loans. That arbitration also alleged fraud in the acquisition of the Game Link companies, and allegations regarding the shares of Private Media stock due under various earn-out provisions to Mr. Bunimovitz. On August 11, 2010, Consipio, a creditor of the Company by virtue of its ownership of the Commerzbank Note, together with Mr. Bunimovitz, and Tisbury Services Inc., the holder of over 13% of Private Media’s outstanding common stock, filed a lawsuit against Private Media in Nevada County Court, Clark County, Nevada, alleging mismanagement of the Company’s business by Private Media’s three independent directors and Mr. Milton (Consipio Holding BV et. al. v. Private Media Group, Inc., filed in Nevada State Court and herein referred to as the “Nevada Action”) The plaintiffs also sought to have a receiver appointed to run the business and affairs of Private Media. Consipio, Tisbury Services Inc. and certain other shareholders believed that a majority of Private Media’s independent members of the Board of Directors failed to direct the affairs of Private Media over many years in a manner that is in the best interests of the Company’s shareholders due to inappropriate influence and control exercised by Private Media’s Chairman and principal shareholder, Mr. Milton. Accordingly, in October 2010 Consipio nominated its own slate of directors to be elected at Private Media’s 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders that was to be held on November 18, 2010. In October 2010, the Nevada state court in the Nevada Action ordered Private Media to recognize the right of Consipio to vote the 5,600,000 shares that were pledged by Slingsby Enterprises as collateral for the Commerzbank Note. The Annual Meeting was held on November 18, 2010. Although the Nevada state court in the Nevada Action ordered that Consipio could vote the 5,600,000 pledged shares, the voting of those shares by Mr. Milton and/or Consipio was difficult to trace, and the inspector of elections in December 2010 determined that Mr. Milton and the other incumbent directors were re-elected. In January 2011, the Nevada state court re-examined the votes cast at the 2010 Annual Meeting to see if the 5,600,000 collateral shares pledged by Slingsby to Consipio were actually voted in favor of Consipio’s director nominees, and then ordered that a hearing be held in June 2011 to determine whether to confirm or modify the vote report of the inspector of elections. At the June 2011 hearing, the Nevada court determined that the election of the incumbent directors at the November 18, 2010 Annual Meeting was invalid. The Nevada court also ordered the prior Board of Directors to promptly call for a new annual meeting to elect directors. The incumbent directors did not call a new meeting of the shareholders as ordered by the court, and on August 25, 3 Table of Contents 2011 the Nevada State Court appointed Mr. Johnson as the receiver for the Company for the purposes of (i) preserving Private Media’s assets and business, and (ii) setting the date for and conducting the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Prior management’s actions also contributed to the de-listing of Private Media’s common stock from the Nasdaq Stock Market. In September 2011, the Company was notified by Nasdaq that Private Media’s common stock would be de-listed from the Nasdaq Stock Market because of the appointment of a receiver, the failure of our prior Board of Directors to collect the EUR 7 million owed by Mr. Milton under the Slingsby Loans, the failure of our prior Board to demand repayment from Mr. Milton of excess salary and instead allowing Mr. Milton to keep such excess salary as a “retention bonus,” and the entry of the $7.35 million Order of Attachment against the Company by the New York State Court. Private Media’s common stock was formally delisted on November 15, 2011. As a result, our common stock is currently traded on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets. On September 19, 2011, Mr. Johnson, as receiver of the Company, demanded that Mr. Milton and Slingsby repay the Slingsby Loans. As of the date of this Annual Report, Mr. Milton and Slingsby have not repaid any portion of the Slingsby Loans. On December 15, 2011, Mr. Johnson, the court-appointed receiver, indefinitely suspended Mr. Milton from all duties and powers as our President and CEO. Mr. Milton’s employment with Private Media was formally terminated on March 28, 2012. Also on December 15, 2011, Johan Gillborg was terminated as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary. The 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders that the Nevada State Court had ordered in June 2011 was finally held on January 11, 2012. At that election, the shareholders removed Mr. Milton and all of the prior directors (other than Mr. Johnson and Mr. Bunimovitz) and elected Consipio’s slate of directors. Thereafter, the new Board of Directors appointed Charles Prast (“Mr. Prast”) as Private Media’s new President, Chief Executive Officer and Interim Chief Financial Officer, and the Nevada Court entered an order terminating the receivership of Mr. Johnson. Mr. Johnson remains a director of the Company. On May 22, 2012, the Nevada State Court (i) dismissed the Nevada Action, and (ii) ordered Private Media to reimburse plaintiffs Consipio Holding BV and Tisbury Services Inc. for their attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in that lawsuit in an amount to be agreed between the plaintiffs and Private Media, and approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. Operations Under New Management. The financial cost of prior management’s actions has severely weakened Private Media’s financial condition and detrimentally affected its on-going operations. Prior management’s failure to attempt to collect the Slingsby Loans (over EUR 7 million, much of which was outstanding for a decade), and its failure to prevent Mr. Milton from receiving excessive salary and other payments, contributed to the Company’s weak financial condition. This situation was, however, significantly exacerbated by the millions of dollars of legal and other fees and costs that were incurred related to the various lawsuits filed against Private Media by its shareholders and creditors, and by the fees related to the disputed annual meetings of the Company’s shareholders. As a result of the lawsuits, Private Media was ordered to repay the litigation fees and costs incurred by the plaintiffs. Because of these additional costs and fees, including default interest on the Commerzbank Note, Private Media’s obligation to Consipio under the Commerzbank Note increased to EUR 5,545,568 (approximately $7.3 million based on the euro-dollar exchange rate in effect on December 28, 2012, the date of settlement). In addition, Private Media was forced to pay the fees and costs of Tisbury Services Inc. and to enter into a settlement with Mr. Bunimovitz. In addition to the financial damage inflicted on the Company, Private Media’s operations during the past few years have also been severely affected by the disruption caused by management disputes, changes in its market and operating environment due to an influx of free, advertisement supported content delivered by other adult entertainment companies (referred to as advertainment), the various lawsuits filed by and against the 4 Table of Contents Company, the Nasdaq de-listing, the operational and other difficulties in integrating Private Media’s Game Link and Sureflix businesses, and the deteriorating relations between Private Media and its distributors and customers. Furthermore, upon assuming control following the January 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, our new officers and directors discovered that many of Private Media’s important financial and corporate records were in disarray and/or missing. These problems have contributed to delays in completing the restructuring of the Company’s operations and to a delay in completing and filing Private Media’s SEC reports. Following the election of the new directors and the appointment of its new Chief Executive Officer, Private Media’s new management in 2012 initiated a plan to restructure and recapitalize Private Media. Management’s short-term goals included the following: 1. Repay its obligations to Consipio and Tisbury. In the aggregate, Private Media owed Consipio in excess of EUR 8 million (approximately $10,582,000 based on the euro-dollar exchange rate in effect on December 31, 2012) for the outstanding principal and accrued interest on the Commerzbank Note, costs associated with enforcing Consipio’s rights as provided for under the Commerzbank Note, court-awarded attorney’s fees and additional amounts representing debt to third parties previously assumed by Consipio. In addition to its obligations to Consipio, Private Media also owed Tisbury Services a total of $450,000 to repay Tisbury’s legal costs. 2. Settle and dismiss the Nevada Action and the other pending lawsuits/arbitration proceedings with Consipio and with Mr. Bunimovitz. 3. Return Private Media’s operations to the geographic and product markets in which it has historically operated and in which the “Private” brand can be most effectively exploited. Accordingly, management’s goal was to divest itself of its U.S. and Canadian operations and facilities, and to consolidate its operations into its Barcelona, Spain, headquarters. Also, management did not believe that the digital distribution of gay adult content was consistent with the Company’s historic adult content offerings. 4. Streamline and reduce Private Media’s facilities, operations, subsidiaries and employees in order to reduce the Company’s overhead and other operational expenses. 5. Raise capital to fund its short-term working capital needs and its growth plans. 6. Restructure a EUR 1.0 million outstanding obligation to an institutional lender under a defaulted line of credit. To date, Private Media has successfully met a number of the foregoing goals. As discussed in greater detail below in this Annual Report, new management has accomplished the following: A. Effective December 28, 2012, Private Media settled its lawsuit with Consipio. Private Media owed the outstanding balance of the Commerzbank Note, the legal fees and costs that the Nevada State Court ordered Private Media to pay, the legal fees and costs Private Media was required to pay Consipio because of the New York lawsuit, and approximately EUR 1.7 million that Private Media owed third parties, which obligations were acquired by Consipio. Since Private Media did not have the funds to repay Consipio in cash, Private Media offered to repay Consipio for all of the foregoing obligations by issuing shares of a new class of preferred stock. As a result, on December 28, 2012, Private Media issued to Consipio a total of 800,000 shares of its new 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock as payment in full. Each share of preferred stock was issued in consideration for EUR 10.00 of debt. We have the right to redeem these shares at any time for EUR 10.00, plus unpaid dividends that accrue at a rate of 6% per annum. See, “Issuance of 6% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock; Change of Control” below. As a result of the settlement, all lawsuits with Consipio (in Nevada and New York) have now been dismissed. B. In May 2012, Private Media settled and terminated both the Nevada Action and the JAMS arbitration that Mr. Bunimovitz had filed against the Company. As part of the settlement and in exchange for full a release from 5 Table of Contents all claims, we (i) transferred to Messrs. Bunimovitz, Sullivan and Marinac (the former owners of the Game Link companies) all of the outstanding capital stock of the ThinkForward, Inc. and GreenCine, Inc. subsidiaries (i.e., the Game Link companies), and (ii) issued to Messrs. Bunimovitz, Sullivan and Marinac an aggregate of 1,772,875 shares of our common stock. The 1,772,875 shares represented the number of shares that Messrs. Bunimovitz, Sullivan and Marinac would have been entitled to under the earn-out provisions under the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of January 20, 2009. The Agreement and Plan of Reorganization was the principal agreement pursuant to which we acquired ThinkForward, Inc. and GreenCine, Inc. See, “Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions, And Director Independence—Transaction Between the Company and Ilan Bunimovitz, our Former Chief Executive Officer and Director, and Mr. Bunimovitz’ Affiliates,” below. C. As part of our re-evaluation of prior management’s expansion of its operations outside of its historical European sphere of operations and the expansion of Private Media’s product offerings to include gay adult media, and in order to resolve claims made by the prior owners of Sureflix, alleging misrepresentation and breach of contract, on June 29, 2012 we entered into a settlement agreement with the former owners of Sureflix. Under the Settlement Agreement, in exchange for a full general release, we transferred back to the former owners (including Mr. Johnson, the current Chairman of this Company’s Board of Directors) all of the outstanding capital stock of Sureflix. All intercompany allocations, receivables and payables between Sureflix, on one hand, and the Company, on the other hand, were netted, and we are obligated to re-pay Sureflix the net amount ($224,969) by the end of 2012. The foregoing amount has not been fully repaid, and, as of May 21, 2013, we will owe Sureflix approximately $74,000. See, “Item 13. Certain Relationships And Related Transactions, And Director Independence—Transaction Between the Company and Eric Johnson, a Director, and Mr. Johnson’s Affiliate,” below. D. Our principal subsidiary owed a European bank EUR 1,073,500 under a defaulted loan that the Company had guaranteed. In December 2012, our new management renegotiated and restructured the loan so that the loan is no longer in default. Under the new terms, the loan will bear interest at a rate of 3% per annum, with interest payments due annually at the end of each calendar year. The repayment dates for the unpaid principal balance have been extended, so that the outstanding principal amount must be repaid as follows: (i) EUR 350,000 is due on January 1, 2016, (ii) EUR 350,000 is due on January 1, 2017, and the balance, (iii) EUR 373,500 is due on January 1, 2018. E. In order to obtain working capital and to be able to renegotiate the repayment of other short-term obligations at a discount, in February 2013 we entered into a Loan Agreement with three unaffiliated foreign lenders. Under the Loan Agreement, the three lenders agreed to advance us a total of EUR 800,000. The loans bear interest at a rate of 9.9% per annum and are due and payable on December 31, 2014. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears. Our obligations under the loans are secured by a lien on certain motion pictures in our film library. F. As part of our efforts to streamline our operations and reduce overhead expenses, new management has, to date, reduced the Company’s headcount from 45, not including 48 employees of Game Link and Sureflix, in 2011 to 38 employees as of May 21, 2013, and significantly reduced the amount of space we rent. The reduction in headcount, management costs and rental expenses is expected to save this Company an estimated EUR 741,000 annually. We are also working on closing and consolidating various subsidiaries in order to simplify our financial reporting procedures and to eliminate the corporate costs of maintaining so many subsidiaries (we had 20 subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and as of May 21, 2013 we had 12 subsidiaries which number is expected to be further reduced). Issuance of 6% Series B Convertible Preferred Stock; Change of Control. As of December 28, 2012, we owed Consipio over EUR 8,000,000 (including principal and interest on the Commerzbank Note, legal fees and costs that we were required to pay as a result of the various legal proceedings related to the collection of the Commerzbank Note, and other liabilities). As of December 28, 2012, we did not have the financial resources to repay all, or even a significant portion of the foregoing amounts owed to Consipio. Accordingly, as payment in full, we agreed to issue to Consipio 800,000 shares of a new series of preferred stock designated as our “6% 6 Table of Contents Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock” (the “Series B Preferred Stock”). Because each share of Series B Preferred Stock was issued at a price of EUR 10.00 per share, the total amount of consideration paid to Consipio for the global settlement was EUR 8,000,000. A total of 1,300,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock have been authorized, of which 800,000 are currently owned by Consipio. We anticipate that we may issue additional shares of the Series B Preferred Stock to repay other creditors and/or to raise additional capital. The principal terms of the Series B Preferred Stock include the following: • Upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company (including a Deemed Liquidation Event), the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to be paid an amount per share equal to EUR 11.00 plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. The liquidation payment is payable before any payment made to the holders of our Common Stock. A Deemed Liquidation Event includes the merger of this Company, the sale of its assets, an uninsured judgment rendered against this Company for EUR 1,000,000 or more, or commencing after July 1, 2013, our failure to file with the SEC any of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Annual Reports on Form 10-K by no later than 30 calendar days after the required filing date (including the expiration of any permitted extensions). • Each share of Series B Preferred Stock is convertible into 50 shares of our common stock. • Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends at an annual rate of 6% of the EUR 10.00 Series B Preferred Stock original issue price, which shall be cumulative, accrue daily and be payable quarterly, in arrears, in cash on the third business day following March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31. However, dividends will cease accruing on the Series B Preferred Stock during any fiscal quarter if all three of the following conditions are met on any day during that fiscal quarter: (i) The Common Stock has been listed or quoted for trading for no less than 60 consecutive trading days on any national U.S. stock exchange (including any market that is part of the Nasdaq Stock Market), the OTC Bulletin Board, and/or on the OTCQX or OTCQB levels of the OTC Markets Group; (ii) The average daily trading volume of the Common Stock for 20 consecutive trading days prior to such date exceeds 10,000 shares, and (iii) The average of the volume weighted average price such 20 consecutive trading days exceeds $1.00 per share (adjusted to reflect any stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend or stock combination). The dividends payable with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock shall, at the option of Private Media, be paid in Euros or by means of a one-year unsecured promissory note. Any such promissory note will bear interest at a rate of 7.5% per annum and be payable in four quarterly payments commencing one year after the date of the dividend payment. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock may, however, elect to receive shares of our Common Stock in place of some or all of any quarterly dividend (the value of the shares is based on the 10-day trading price of our Common Stock). • Provided that we have registered with the SEC the public resale of the shares of Common Stock into which the Series B Preferred Stock is convertible, at our option we may, at any time, redeem the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock, in whole or in part, for a cash redemption price equal to EUR 10.00 plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. The redemption price is payable in Euros. • At any time between December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2018, a holder of the Series B Preferred Stock may demand that we redeem some or all of the holder’s shares of Series B Preferred Stock, to the extent permitted under Nevada law. Each holder may demand that one third of the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock the holder initially acquired be redeemed in each calendar year 2016, 2017, and 2018. The redemption price is equal to EUR 10.00 plus any accrued and unpaid dividends and is required to be paid in cash, provided that we do not have to pay cash to the extent that such payments would (i) reduce our cash balance to below EUR 1,000,000, or (ii) cause our current assets to be less than three times our current liabilities, whichever is less. If we can’t pay the entire redemption price in cash, we have to pay the balance in a promissory note. The promissory note used to pay any portion of the redemption price shall: (a) bear interest at a fixed rate of prime plus 4% per annum; (b) be payable in four equal quarterly installments of principal and interest on the last day of each calendar quarter; (c) be prepayable by us at any time, in whole or in part, without premium or penalty; and (d) if 7 Table of Contents necessary to comply with Nevada law governing distributions to shareholders, be subordinated to all of our creditors. We also will have the right to defer any payment under the promissory notes if such payment would violate Nevada law. • The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock vote together with the holders of Common Stock as a single class. Each holder of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Series B Preferred Stock held by such holder would be convertible. However, we may not take certain actions without the approval of a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock. These actions that require the approval of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock include (i) changing the rights, preferences and privileges of the Series B Preferred Stock or creating a class that is senior to the Series B Preferred Stock, (ii) selling all or substantially all of our assets or merging with another entity if following the merger our shareholders own less than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors, (iii) paying dividends on, or redeeming any shares of our Common Stock, (iv) borrowing more than EUR 2,000,000 in the aggregate, other than trade payables and accrued expenses incurred in the ordinary course of business, and (v) issuing more than 5,000,000 shares of Common Stock in any single transaction or related set of transactions. • In order to allow certain holders of our Series B Preferred Stock to maintain their percentage interest in our Company, until December 31, 2017 each holder of more than 50,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have the right to participate in our future capital raising transactions, including the issuances of common stock, debt, preferred stock, options, warrants or other instrument that are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock. The number of securities that a qualified holder of Series B Preferred Stock can purchase in our future capital raising issuances is equal to the ratio of (x) the number of shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by the qualified holder, to (y) the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock then outstanding plus the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the exercise or conversion of all outstanding options, warrants, and other convertible securities. Change of Control. The 800,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock owned by Consipio are currently convertible into 40,000,000 shares of Private Media Common Stock and, until converted, are entitled to vote on all matters, including the election of directors, on an “as converted” basis. Taking into account the 3,000,000 shares issued to Tisbury under the Tisbury Settlement Agreement, the Company had a total of 27,259,869 shares of Common Stock outstanding on December 28, 2012. Accordingly, since the shares of Series B Preferred Stock that were issued to Consipio have 40,000,000 votes, Consipio acquired 59.4% of the aggregate voting power of Private Media’s capital stock. As a result, Consipio currently has the ability to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors. Business Summary Overview We acquire worldwide rights to adult media produced for us by independent producers and then process this content into products suitable for popular physical media formats such as print publications, DVDs, digital media platforms (such as internet websites, mobile telephony and transactional television), and broadcasting (which includes cable, satellite and IPTV). Our branded adult media is available at physical retail locations and through electronic retailers as well as on mobile devices, transaction television platforms and over the Internet. In addition, we provide adult entertainment films to thousands of major hotels around the world. To a lesser extent, in addition to branded adult media products, we also market and distribute branded leisure and novelty products oriented to the adult entertainment lifestyle and generate additional sales through the licensing of our Private trademark to third parties. Our business was founded in 1965 and achieved initial success through our then flagship print publication, Private, the first full color, hard-core sex publication in the world. As of December 31, 2011, we had compiled a digital archive of more than two million photographs and had more than 500 issues of print publications. Approximately 20,000 copies of our print publications are distributed each month and include a DVD. 8 Table of Contents In 1992, we expanded our operations to include the production, acquisition, and distribution of adult movies. Our movies, and those that were produced by us in a joint venture with third parties, have to date received more than 200 industry awards. As of December 31, 2012, our video library contained in excess of 1,400 titles. Our goal is to add approximately over 140 hours of video to our library annually. Since 1997, we have expanded our presence in growing distribution channels such as the Internet and over hand-held devices, including smartphones, tablets and similar devices. We believe that these channels represent a substantial growth opportunity for us in the future. We launched our first internet website, www.private.com, in 1997. This website provides content directly to consumers over the Internet. We derive revenues from the website primarily through subscriptions. On January 20, 2009 we expanded our Internet operations through the acquisition of Game Link LLC and its affiliates, companies engaged in digital distribution of adult content over the Internet and eCommerce development. Game Link is a leading US adult entertainment video-on-demand and eCommerce platform through its Game Link.com website. Game Link is based in San Francisco, U.S. On October 29, 2009 we continued the expansion of our digital media platform through the acquisition of Sureflix Digital Distribution and its affiliates, companies engaged in the business of digital distribution of premium gay adult content. Sureflix is a leading global supplier of gay adult programming based in Toronto, Canada. As described elsewhere in this Annual Report, in order to settle on-going litigation, and in order to re-focus our business on our historical geographic and target markets, we transferred ownership of these two businesses to their original owners in 2012. Accordingly, we no longer own or operate either the Game Link or Sureflix businesses. Corporate Information Private Media Group, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Nevada, U.S.A. In accordance with Nevada law we maintain a registered office at 3230 Flamingo Road, Suite 156, Las Vegas, Nevada. Our European headquarters and principal offices are located at the offices of one of our principal operating subsidiaries, Milcap Media Group, S.L.U., whose address is Calle de la Marina 16-18, Floor 18, Suite D, 08005 Barcelona, Spain, telephone +34-93-620 80 90. Our corporate website address is www.prvt.com. We do not incorporate the information on our website into this Annual Report, and you should not consider such information part of this annual report. We currently operate through 12 subsidiaries, of which only 8 actively conduct business. The parent company, Private Media Group, Inc., was originally incorporated in 1980 as a Utah corporation under the name Glacier Investment Company, Inc. for the purpose of acquiring or merging with an established company. In 1991, we changed our domicile to the State of Nevada. On December 19, 1997 Private Media Group, Inc. entered into acquisition agreements with Milcap Media Limited and Cine Craft Limited to acquire all of their outstanding capital stock in exchange for shares of its common stock, $4.00 Series A Preferred Stock, and common stock purchase warrants. Private Media Group, Inc. completed these acquisitions on June 12, 1998. In connection with these transactions, in December 1997 the parent company changed its corporate name to Private Media Group, Inc. Glacier Investment Company, Inc. had no material business activity prior to its acquisition of Milcap Media Limited and Cine Craft Limited in June 1998. 9 Table of Contents Our Strategy Our goal is to be a preferred content provider of branded adult media to adult consumers across all distribution platforms and devices. To date, we have developed the strategies described below to compete in our markets. Our strategy is continually evolving to face the changing conditions in our markets and advances in technology. In general, our current strategy is as follows: Leverage our brand. As Europe’s leading producer and distributor of adult media for over 45 years, we have developed strong brand awareness within our markets. Our strategy is to leverage our “Private” brand name to increase our market share for adult entertainment products in existing distribution channels, and to gain access to new consumers in new markets and on new platforms. Distribute our adult entertainment products through all new technology and distribution channels. We actively seek out and utilize new and developing delivery platforms and technologies to distribute our existing and new content. Since we can convert our content to many digital platforms for a minimal incremental cost and thereby increase revenues and our brand exposure, our strategy is to make our content available to all existing and new digital devices, such as computers, digital cable and satellite television, IPTV and, more recently, hand-held devices including smart phones, tablet computers, similar devices. Exploit our large library of content. We own an extensive library of adult media that we have produced and acquired since our formation. Our strategy is to distribute our vast library of content, which was created for one type of media, in other distribution channels. Accordingly, our strategy is to convert and/or repackage our existing products and then distribute these products across all digital platforms and devices. Our Competitive Strengths We believe the following strengths, among others, are critical to our future within the market for adult media: Recognized brand name We believe that our target customers associate the Private brand name with high quality adult media. This name recognition attracts leading producers of adult media, as well as distributors and prospective joint venture partners interested in working with the Company. We believe that the strength of our brand name leads to more favorable economic terms than we could otherwise obtain in our processing and distribution contracts, and enables us to negotiate favorable revenue sharing arrangements and joint ventures from which we derive significant licensing fees. Established market position and distribution network We have access to a well-established worldwide distribution network which has been built up over the past 45 years, including over 100,000 physical points of sale in over 40 countries as of December 31, 2011. Some of our distribution relationships are exclusive distribution arrangements, which improve our market position and enhance our distribution capabilities. This broad distribution network provides an effective channel to introduce new products and services and new formats for existing products and services. In digital media categories, we have entered into strategic alliances with a number of leading international service providers. 10 Table of Contents Extensive library of high quality adult media We have an extensive library of high quality adult media. As of December 31, 2012, our library included still photographs developed for more than 500 back-issues of magazines and in excess of 1,400 movie titles. We hold exclusive worldwide rights to this entire content archive. This has enabled us to enter into distribution arrangements with a wide range of media platforms, including leading international telecoms and broadcasting companies. To facilitate electronic distribution of our products, we have converted our entire archive of print images into a digital format. Our video archive is now also stored in rich media digital format, which can be converted into any known file format and delivered digitally online or on hard drives. Content acquisition strategy We acquire adult media from third-party producers/directors on a project-by-project basis. This approach gives us substantial flexibility in terms of production volume and delivery time, significantly reduces our fixed production overhead and largely eliminates the risk to us of cost overruns in production. Experienced management Our management team has extensive experience in the acquisition and distribution of adult media and in general business administration. Our Principal Products and Markets Physical Media Segment (Magazine and DVD Publications) We are the publisher of Private, an international X-rated magazine, and Private branded adult media on DVDs. Private was founded in 1965, and was the first full color, hard-core sex publication in the world. Although this market has declined significantly in recent years we still maintain a robust presence in points of sale across Europe including retail, e-commerce platforms and newspaper kiosks. Direct-to-Consumer Segment (Internet Services) Our Direct-to-Consumer segment derives revenue primarily through subscriptions to our adult consumer websites, including our private.com site. Content for the websites is primarily obtained from our own productions. Traffic to our consumer websites is derived through either a targeted network of affiliates that earn a referral fee from us when diverted traffic converts into paying members, or type-in traffic whereby users navigate directly to the websites by typing the addresses of our websites into their web browsers. Content Segment (Wireless—Mobile Entertainment) We launched our mobile content program in 2003. We generate revenues from mobile telephony transactions both on-portal and off-portal. Currently, our principal markets for this product are Europe and South America. Our product offering to operator portals consists of mobile downloads, including wallpapers, screensavers, video clips and video streaming. Our off-portal business is increasingly an extension of our direct-to-consumer segment. Transactional TV Segment Our transactional television segment was our largest segment in fiscal year 2011. This segment of our operations generates revenues primarily through the distribution of adult programming on video-on-demand (VOD) platforms. VOD distribution primarily occurs through cable operators or IPVT providers. VOD presents viewers with layered menus that allow viewers to interactively select a motion picture/video and then view it either immediately or at a later time. We believe consumers prefer VOD services relative to our pay-per-view (PPV) offerings because of the variety of content available through VOD platforms, and because of the flexibility VOD services provide in viewing times. 11 Table of Contents Our Transactional TV segment also distributes adult programming to cable and satellite television companies for PPV channels. PPV typically provides consumers access to a timed block of programming (programming that is available only at specified times) for a fee payable to their cable or satellite provider. Our PPV programming is offered on channels that are available to viewers through the same electronic program guides that display basic cable channels. We typically earn revenue in our Transactional TV segment by receiving a percentage of the total retail purchase price paid by consumers to purchase our content on customers’ VOD and PPV platforms. Branded Broadcast Channel Segment We initiated our broadcasting business in 2000, and currently offer two adult content broadcast channels, one in Europe and one in Latin America. Our two branded channels are provided as part of a joint venture with Playboy TV and a South American partner respectively. These channels are distributed to cable operators, IPTV and direct broadcast satellite platforms on a revenue share or CPS (cents per subscriber) basis. VIDEO Production In 1992, we began releasing movies under the Private label. We acquire our content from independent producers that are carefully selected and are subject to strict quality controls. All producers assume production costs, obligations and legal responsibilities, including among other things, the delivery of rights, model releases and all production-related paperwork. The producers deliver the movies on digital masters to us. We then arrange for the digital masters, as necessary, to be customized, dubbed, sub-titled and encoded. All marketing material and artwork for video covers is created in-house. As of December 31, 2012, our movie library contained in excess of 1,400 movie titles. Almost all titles are available on any available digital format. Distribution We distribute our productions worldwide via digital files and digital masters. We license our movies to IPTV, cable and satellite television networks and adult pay-per-view television channels. These licenses generally grant the operator a specific right of transmission and we retain the intellectual property rights of every production. We edit many of our new feature movie releases into several versions depending on the media through which they are to be distributed. Versions edited for cable, satellite and hotel television programming may be less sexually explicit than the versions edited for home video distribution. DVDs are sold or rented in video stores, adult lifestyle retailers, newsstands and other retail outlets, and where permitted, through direct mail. DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER (INTERNET SERVICES) Private Media’s internet platform offers adult content directly to consumers. Private.com (www.private.com) is our membership site that offers access to high-quality adult content, including video clips, photosets, a library of all “Private” magazines ever published. Revenue from our websites is generated primarily through subscriptions purchased by our customers. Content for the websites is primarily obtained from our own productions. Traffic to our consumer websites is derived through either a targeted network of affiliates that earn a referral fee from us when diverted traffic converts into paying members, or type-in traffic whereby users navigate directly to the websites by typing the addresses of our websites into their web browsers. 12 Table of Contents TRANSACTIONAL TELEVISION SEGMENT The transaction television segment of our operations consists of the distribution of adult programming on the IPTV and cable system (VOD) platforms. Our transactional television segment was our largest segment in fiscal year 2011. This segment of our operations generates revenues primarily through the distribution of adult programming on video-on-demand (VOD) platforms. VOD distribution primarily occurs through cable operators or IPVT providers. VOD presents viewers with layered menus that allow viewers to interactively select a motion picture/video and then view it either immediately or at a later time. We believe consumers prefer VOD services relative to our pay-per-view (PPV) offerings because of the variety of content available through VOD platforms, and because of the flexibility VOD services provide in viewing times. Our Transactional TV segment also distributes adult programming to cable and satellite television companies for PPV channels. PPV typically provides consumers access to a timed block of programming (programming that is available only at specified times) for a fee payable to their cable or satellite provider. Our PPV programming is offered on channels that are available to viewers through the same electronic program guides that display basic cable channels. In-Room Entertainment The Company also licenses the right to use its content to hospitality service entertainment operators primarily for hotel room systems. WIRELESS—MOBILE CONTENT We generate revenues from on-portal and off-portal mobile content. The market currently consists of wallpapers, screensavers, video clips and video streaming. PHYSICAL MEDIA SEGMENT (MAGAZINE PUBLICATIONS/DVDs) Magazines. Our publishing operations include the publication of Private magazine. This magazine is distributed primarily in Europe. Our magazines feature pictures of men and women engaged in erotic and sexually explicit situations. During 2011 we distributed approximately 20,000 copies of our print publications packaged together with our DVDs per month. Our magazines are distributed to newsstands and other public retail outlets through a network of national distributors, who maintain a local network of wholesale and retail distributors. Newsstand retail sales are permitted in most of Europe and we distribute our magazines to newsstands in these markets. Independent distributors who distribute our magazines do so under individual firm sales distribution agreements. We print all of our proprietary magazines in Barcelona, Spain and ship them from the Netherlands. We determine the amount of printed publications bi-monthly with input from each of our national distributors. DVDs. We have entered into distribution agreements in over 20 countries. Under these distribution agreements we provide our back catalogue of titles and all our new titles each month during the term of the agreement, and a licensee normally serves as the exclusive distributor throughout its own country or language territory. In general, we believe that national distribution agreements enable us to have an ongoing branded presence in international markets and to generate higher and more consistent revenues than we could achieve selling directly to retailers. 13 Table of Contents BRANDED BROADCASTING In November 2005 the Company and Playboy TV International signed a non-exclusive five-year agreement to launch an adult pay-TV channel in Europe. The new channel was launched, and currently still operates, under the name of Private Spice. In 2010, we renewed the Private Spice agreement with Playboy for an additional five-year term. Under our agreement, Playboy TV International operates, distributes and markets the channel, and we provide the video content, the use of our “Private” brand, and some marketing support. We generate revenues from our joint venture with Playboy on a profit sharing basis commensurate with our content contribution to the channel. The programming in the Private Spice channel, including the language and content, is tailored to the local market in Europe in which the channel is offered. The channel is available in Europe via cable, satellite, Digital Terrestrial Television (“DTT”) and IPTV platforms. The Private Gold channel was launched in Latin America in 2001. In 2005, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Playboy TV Latin America to operate and distribute a “Private” branded channel throughout Latin America. Under the terms of the agreement, Playboy TV Latin America operates and distributes the channel via its pay television distribution network. The channel originally was titled “Private Gold.” In 2009, the channel was re-branded as the “Private Channel.” We generate revenues from our agreement with Playboy TV Latin America on a revenue share basis. PROPRIETARY RIGHTS General We believe that our branded video and magazine titles and logos are valuable assets and are vital to the success and future growth of our businesses. We have filed trademark registration applications with respect to most of our trade names and logos. We believe that the name recognition and image that we have developed in each of our markets significantly enhances customer response to our sales promotions. We intend to aggressively defend our trademarks throughout the world, and we constantly monitor the marketplace for counterfeit products. We initiate legal proceedings from time to time to prevent unauthorized use of our trademarks. Our principal trademark name and logo is “Private.” Piracy Problems Our content is constantly being pirated on the Internet. We have an internal program for challenging websites that publish our content without our permission. The program includes subscribing to different legal programs and services concerned with internet piracy. Our legal counsel handles most piracy problems and attempts to resolve these matters or litigate them on a case-by-case basis. During 2011, we had eleven lawsuits pending to enforce our proprietary rights against alleged illegal copyright infringers. COMPETITION General Considerations The adult media industry is highly competitive, highly fragmented, consists of a very large number of competitors, and is constantly changing. We believe our most challenging competition recently has been from low-cost and free adult internet websites. The increase in the availability of free and low-cost internet websites, as well as the decline in global economic conditions, has caused consumers to seek lower-cost options for obtaining adult content. We believe that consumers who would otherwise purchase our content have been obtaining their content through low-cost and free adult internet websites. Additionally, consumers are generally migrating away from television as a viewing platform of choice. We believe these developments have resulted and may continue to result in further competitive pressures on us from free and low-cost adult internet websites. Furthermore, we have traditionally competed against other, larger companies that offer competing products. 14 Table of Contents However, because of the relatively low barrier to entry and the ease with which media can be produced and made available over the Internet, our competitors now also include numerous small publishers of adult content. We believe that we have a competitive advantage because of (i) our established and highly recognized “Private” brand, (ii) the quality of our content, and (iii) the existing distribution arrangements that we have established over numerous years. We have few long-term or exclusive service agreements with our customers. Business generation is based primarily on customer satisfaction with key factors in a purchase decision including reliability, timeliness, quality and price. We believe that our extensive and longstanding international operations, our brand name, image and reputation, as well as the quality of our content and our distributors, provide a significant competitive advantage over many of our competitors. Internet The internet market for adult oriented content has expanded dramatically over the past years. Because it is easy and inexpensive to establish an Internet presence, there is significant competition among distributors of adult media over the Internet. There are numerous adult media websites competing with ours, some of which are operated by companies that possess global distribution, broadcasting and branding. Historically pay sites have contained most of the adult media on the Internet, but recently the “YouTube-like” adult video sites that are commonly known as “tube sites,” offering free content, have become a serious threat to both paid internet and DVD distribution of adult media. The “tube sites” feature free adult videos, some of which consists of unlicensed, or pirated, excerpts of professionally produced adult movies (including at times pirated versions of Private Media’s proprietary videos). The availability of these free adult videos has diminished the demand for our paid video offerings on our proprietary websites and for our other products, and has diluted the market presence of our website. The tube sites have materially affected the revenues we generate from our website and other product offerings. Broadcasting The distribution of adult movies on cable and satellite television systems and hotel pay-per-view systems is highly competitive. Competition in this area is increasing in line with increasing consumer demand for hard-core adult entertainment generally. Our strongest geographical market position for cable and television and distribution is in Europe and Latin America, with the channels, Private Spice and Private, and licensing arrangements with established European television networks and IPTV platforms operated by international telcos. DVDs The distribution of adult entertainment DVDs is a highly competitive business. Revenue generation for motion picture entertainment products depends, in part, upon general economic conditions, but the competitive position of a producer or distributor is still greatly affected by the quality of, and public response to, the entertainment product it makes available to the marketplace. Competition arises from established adult video producers and from independent companies distributing low-quality material. The introduction of a large number of free content internet sites that allow users to access large libraries of content has created an even more challenging environment where both sales volume and margins are decreasing substantially. Magazines There are numerous publishers of hard-core adult magazines and paperback books. However, we believe that our print publications are dissimilar to many of the other adult publications in style and format. Magazines such as Playboy and Penthouse and similar print publications do not compete directly with our publications, since we consider them to be softcore publications. There are several hard-core publications in each country where our magazines are sold. In general, these are printed in limited editions and are of lower quality than our publications. 15 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2011 we employed 93 people which included 37 and 11 employees, respectively, employed by our Game Link and Sureflix companies. During 2012, we disposed of the Game Link and Sureflix companies, and the number of our employees has decreased as a result. In addition, as part of the internal reorganization undertaken by our new management, we have further reduced the number of persons we employ. As of May 21, 2013, we employed a total of 38 employees. All of our employees are employed at our headquarters in Barcelona, Spain. Our employees in Spain are represented by two labor unions. We have never experienced a work stoppage and believe that we have a good relationship with our employees. GOVERNMENT REGULATION We operate in a highly regulated industry, both domestically and internationally. The laws and regulations of the various jurisdictions and countries in which we operate regulate all aspects of our business and products. Our materials are currently published and distributed in, or otherwise available in many countries, each of which has its own regulatory framework. In particular, these regulations require us to be aware of, and to comply with, varying laws relating to decency and obscenity and the provisions that apply to the protection of minors, as well as regulations that relate to licensing, foreign investment and use of confidential customer information. In addition, as a publisher and distributor of entertainment in printed and other formats, we have to comply with all of the other rules and regulations that apply to publishers and distributors of other forms of publication. Changes in the regulation of our operations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators or our inability to comply with current or future regulations could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. SEASONALITY Our businesses are generally not seasonal in nature. AVAILABLE INFORMATION As a public company, we are required to file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. You may read and copy any of our materials on file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Our filings are available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the operation of the Public Reference Room. We also make available copies of our Forms 8-K, 10-K, 10-Q, Proxy Statement and Annual Report at no charge to investors through our corporate website, http://www.prvt.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material with the SEC. Information on our website is not part of this Annual Report. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating our business and us. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business and Operations. As a result of operating losses, the opinion of our independent registered public accounting firm expresses substantial doubt, about our ability to continue as a going concern. In each of the past three years we 16 Table of Contents have experienced substantial net losses (net losses of EUR 20,510,000 in 2009, EUR 4,335,000 in 2010, and EUR 29,324,000 in 2011). At December 31, 2011, we had cash and cash equivalents of EUR 179,000 and a working capital deficit of EUR 11,438,000. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm has concluded that there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, and has modified its report in the form of an explanatory paragraph describing the events that have given rise to this uncertainty. Our ability to continue as a going concern is based on our ability to generate or obtain sufficient cash to meet our obligations on a timely basis and ultimately to attain profitable operations. Since December 31, 2011, most of the directors on our former Board of Directors have been removed and replaced by new directors. In addition, in December 2011 our prior Chief Executive Officer was indefinitely suspended (he was officially terminated in March 2012) and our Chief Financial Officer was terminated on December 15, 2011. As a result, as of early in 2012 Private Media is under new management. Our new officers and directors have attempted to address the prior net losses, the large amount of outstanding indebtedness, our working capital deficit and our need for additional working capital. Among other things, since the beginning of 2012, new management has repaid EUR 8,000,000 of indebtedness in shares of the Company’s new 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, has restructured our defaulted EUR 1,000,000 bank credit facility, has raised EUR 800,000 of working capital through loans from three non-affiliated lenders, has reduced the Company’s overhead by reducing the number of employees, excluding Game Link and Sureflix, from 45 at December 31, 2011 to 38 as of May 21, 2013 and closing an office (which actions are collectively expected to provide estimated savings of EUR 741,000 annually), and has settled the two lawsuits that have burdened the Company’s financial resources and distracted the Company from its operations. These actions have improved the Company’s balance sheet and have reduced the Company’s ongoing operating expenses. In addition, in order to redirect the Company’s focus back to its historic business and geographic market, in 2012 new management also divested the Company of the Game Link and Sureflix operations that former management acquired in 2009. While the divestment of the Game Link and Sureflix companies has resulted in a significant decrease in new sales and has reduced the Company’s total assets, new management believes that the distraction caused by these distant operations and by the different product offerings (for example, the Company has not historically engaged in the gay media distribution market that was the focus of Sureflix) will improve the Company’s longer term operations and net profits. No assurance can, however, be given that these and other on-going changes will improve the Company’s future operations or that the Company will not continue to incur significant losses in the future. There can be no assurance that we will ever be able to operate profitably in the future. Our future capital requirements and needs for additional financing are uncertain. Although we expect that our available cash resources and cash we expect to generate from operations will be sufficient to meet our presently anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months based upon our present plan of operation, we believe that we may need to raise additional funds to (i) repay some legacy liabilities Private Media incurred under prior management, and (ii) to support new management’s modified business and growth plans and any unanticipated capital requirements. If we cannot obtain the additional financing that we have projected that we believe we will need to support our growing operations and to fully implement our plan of operations, our future operations will be hindered, and our ability to grow and become profitable will be jeopardized. In addition, if adequate funds are not available to us, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, maintain the scope of our operations or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements, all of which could harm our business. We have not identified the sources for the additional financing that we intend to obtain, and we do not have commitments from any third parties to provide this financing. There can be no assurance that sufficient funding will be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. Any additional equity funding that we obtain will reduce the percentage ownership held by our existing security holders. Our business is highly competitive, and we risk losing significant market share and revenues if we are unable to effectively compete. We operate in an extremely competitive market. We compete with a number of other businesses that offer various adult-oriented publications or media products, including Playboy Enterprises, Inc., Vivid Entertainment, Larry Flynt Publications, Inc. (Hustler and New Frontier), and Manwin. Many of our competitors have significantly greater market presence, name recognition and financial and technical resources 17 Table of Contents than we do. In addition, these companies may develop products or services that are more attractive to our target market than our products or services and/or they may be more successful than us in marketing their products or services. We believe that the adult entertainment market will continue to shift towards the use of explicit sexual content, our principal market, resulting in increased competition in this area of our business. In our internet business, we compete with other adult media websites as to the content of their programming and for subscription fees from subscribers and users. In addition, the growing availability of free adult entertainment through free websites has resulted in additional pressure on our business, which has adversely affected revenues and margins. Free content on the Internet and competition from the “tube sites” is increasing competition for our products and is changing the dynamics of the marketplace for our products. Demand for Private Media’s paid products is being significantly impacted by the availability of free adult entertainment available on the Internet in general and at the “YouTube-like” adult video sites that are commonly known as “tube sites.” The “tube sites” feature free adult videos, some of which consist of unlicensed, or pirated, excerpts of professionally produced adult movies (including at times pirated versions of Private Media’s proprietary videos). The availability of these free adult videos has diminished the demand for Private Media’s paid video offerings on our proprietary website and for our other products, and has diluted the market presence of our website. The tube sites have materially affected the revenues we generate from our website and other product offerings. It is uncertain what affect these tube sites and other free internet adult websites will have on our on-going operations and our future financial results. No assurance can be given that we will be able to effectively compete against the tube sites and other internet products. The market for our adult oriented products is changing rapidly, and unless we are able to anticipate these changes and rapidly adapt, we will lose market share. The adult entertainment sector is seeing rapid declines in its core business (i.e. DVD and magazine sales) as consumer consumption of adult content has shifted from physical media to digital distribution. Online usage itself is changing rapidly as technological advancements allow the deployment of more advanced and interactive multimedia services. In addition, multiple new mobile smartphone technologies and capabilities are adding new distribution venues for digital content. As a result of these new digital distribution channels, we have to rapidly develop new business models, products and distribution models that will allow us to otherwise capitalize on our large library of titles that we own. The free internet adult video offerings and the new mobile telephony offerings have affected sales of our print publications and our DVD sales. Unless we are able to effectively modify our business model to compete with the products offered digitally on the Internet or elsewhere, our market share, revenues and profits from our product offerings could decrease. Although we are currently deploying new mobile phone and smart television products, no assurance can be given that we will remain competitive in the rapidly changing adult entertainment marketplace. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of our consumers. Our business involves the provision of sexually explicit content which can create negative publicity, lawsuits and boycotts. We are engaged in the business of providing adult-oriented, sexually explicit products worldwide. Many people regard our primary business as unwholesome. Various national and local governments, along with religious and children’s advocacy groups, consistently propose and enact legislation to restrict the provision of, access to, and content of such entertainment. These groups also often file lawsuits against providers of adult entertainment, encourage boycotts against such providers and mount negative publicity campaigns. In this regard, our magazines, and some of our distribution outlets and advertisers, have from time-to-time been the target of groups who seek to limit the availability of our products because of their content. We expect to continue to be subject to these activities. The adult-oriented content of our websites may also subject us to obscenity or other legal claims by third parties. We may also be subject to claims based upon the content that is available on our websites through links to other sites and in jurisdictions that we have not previously distributed content in. Implementing measures to 18 Table of Contents reduce our exposure to this liability may require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our websites and/or their availability in various geographic areas, which could negatively impact their ability to generate revenue. In addition, some investors, investment banks, market makers, lenders and others in the investment community may refuse to participate in the market for our common stock, financings or other activities due to the nature of our primary business. These refusals may negatively impact the value of our common stock and our opportunities to attract market support. We face online security risks in connection with our Internet business. Online security breaches could materially adversely affect our business. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter use of the Internet in general or use of the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials in particular. In offering online payment services, we rely on technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information, such as consumer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of data encryption or other developments could compromise or breach the methods and procedures that we use to protect our consumers’ transaction data. In addition, unaffiliated programmers/hackers may attempt to steal proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. To prevent such developments we may need to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against these problems. Continued imposition of tighter processing restrictions by credit card associations and acquiring banks would make it more difficult to generate revenues from Internet and mobile telephone transactions. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our online and mobile phone products and services is critical to us. There are ongoing efforts by credit card and other payment associations to restrict the processing of payments for online and mobile adult-related content. To protect against such restrictions, we must invest heavily in new technologies to protect against fraud. Unlike a merchant handling a sales transaction in a non-internet environment, e-commerce merchants are fully responsible for all fraud perpetrated against them. Our ability to accept credit cards as a form of payment for our online products and services could be restricted or denied for many reasons, including: • Visa Tier 1 capital ratio requirements for financial institutions have significantly reduced the total dollar sales volume of Visa credit card activity that any bank can process in any given month; • if we experience excessive chargebacks and/or credits; • if we experience excessive fraud ratios; • if there is a breach of our security resulting in a theft of credit card data; • if there is a change in policy of the acquiring banks and/or credit card associations with respect to the processing of credit card charges for adult-related content; • tightening of credit card association chargeback regulations in international commerce; • banks might choose not to accept accounts with adult-related content. American Express has instituted a policy of not processing credit card charges for online, adult-related content. If other credit card processing companies were to implement a similar policy, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We outsource our production and distribution. We acquire still photography and motion pictures/video content from independent producers/directors, and we rely on third-party distributors to deliver our products to end-users through multiple distribution channels, including newsstands, the Internet and broadcasting. Our relationship with such producers/directors and distributors is contractually based. We cannot guarantee that our 19 Table of Contents contracts with directors will be fulfilled or that we will enter into new ones, in which case we may not have adequate content for our magazines and movies. Also, we cannot guarantee that our contracts with distributors will be renewed, in which case we may not be able to sell new products through some or all channels or into some countries. Failure to secure new production contracts, to secure the fulfillment of current contracts or to maintain our current distribution contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. New technological changes may render our equipment uneconomical or obsolete. As technologies change, the equipment used in our markets may become obsolete. As a result, we subcontract and intend to continue to subcontract capital intensive or technically complex businesses such as editing, DVD replication and other similar businesses. However, we may not have access to these subcontractors when their services are required, and their services may not be available on favorable terms. Increased government regulation in the United States or abroad could limit our ability to deliver content and expand our business. New laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or more aggressive application of existing laws, could decrease the growth of our websites, prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. These new laws or regulations could relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, taxation, user privacy and other matters relating to our products and services. For example, the U.S. government has recently enacted laws regarding website privacy, copyrights and taxation. Moreover, the application to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, pornography, obscenity, libel, employment and personal privacy is uncertain and developing. In addition, adult content remains prohibited or strictly controlled in many geographic markets. Some markets, such China, are strengthening their anti-pornography stances, providing a major challenge for adult entertainment providers. Cable system operators could also become subject to new governmental regulations that could further restrict their ability to broadcast our programming. If new regulations make it more difficult for cable operators to broadcast our programming, our operating performance would be adversely affected. We face risks relating to our proprietary intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, software security measures, license agreements and non-disclosure agreements to protect our proprietary products. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties copy parts of, or otherwise obtain and use our videos, photographs and other products without our permission. In addition, unauthorized users occasionally use our concepts and products and market them to our established customer base. Products sold over the Internet are particularly vulnerable to piracy, particularly in some developing countries. In addition, we cannot be certain that others will not develop substantially equivalent or superseding products, thereby reducing the value of our proprietary rights. Confidentiality agreements with our employees or license agreements with our customers may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure of that proprietary information. We do not believe that our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, and we are not currently the subject of any intellectual property litigation or proceedings. Nonetheless, in the future we could become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to current or future products. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. We cannot be sure that any lawsuits or other actions brought by us will be successful or that we will not be found to infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, to the extent we may desire, or are required, to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others, there can be no guarantee that any such licenses will be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Enforcement of civil liabilities against Private Media and its management may be difficult. Presently, most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon them or to enforce, in courts outside the 20 Table of Contents United States, judgments against these persons obtained in U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, since the disposition of our Game Link operations, virtually all of our assets are now located outside the United States. As a result, a judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be fully collectible within the United States. There are risks associated with our international operations. As a European based enterprise, a majority of our operations are conducted outside the United States. In addition, our growth strategy contemplates increased services to foreign customers and to domestic customers distributing programming to international markets. As a consequence of the global nature of our business, we will be exposed to market risks from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. By virtue of our significant cross-border operations, we will be subject to the risks normally associated with such activities, including those relating to delayed payments from customers in some countries or difficulties in the collection of receivables generally. In addition, we will be exposed to the risk of changes in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we engage in business. Political and economic instability in these countries could adversely affect our business activities and operations. Unexpected changes in local regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers and price or exchange controls could limit operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult. In addition, the uncertainty of differing legal environments could limit our ability to effectively enforce our rights in some markets. We are subject to risks relating to performers. Our movie, video and photo productions are subject to U.S. and foreign regulations which govern the terms and conditions under which sexually explicit media productions may occur. We have adopted practices and procedures that are intended to ensure compliance with these regulations. Although these measures are intended to protect us from liability under applicable U.S. and foreign laws governing sexually explicit media productions, we cannot guarantee that we will not be subject to successful legal attacks in the future. Any material violation of the rules and regulations concerning the production of sexually explicit media in a jurisdiction could subject us to significant financial penalties and could limit our ability to conduct future operations in that jurisdiction. Risks Associated With Our Securities. Our principal shareholder holds sufficient number of our common stock to be able to elect our future Board of Directors, to control our operations, and to prevent other shareholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of December 28, 2012, Consipio Holding BV, a corporation organized under the laws of The Netherlands, acquired 800,000 shares of our newly created 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock. The 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock votes with the shares of our common stock as if it were converted into shares of our common stock. As of the date of this Annual Report, the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock controls approximately 59.4% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Consipio has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and the ability to direct the outcome of matters presented to our shareholders, including corporate actions such as: • our merger with or into another company; • a sale of substantially all of our assets; and • amendments to our Articles of Incorporation. The decisions of Consipio or its elected or designated directors may conflict with our interests or those of our other shareholders. In addition, this concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although our shareholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our board of directors, we do not intend to pay 21 Table of Contents dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, we are prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends to the holders of our common stock until we have paid the cumulative 6% annual dividend to the holders of our 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock that could dilute the value of your shares of common stock. We are authorized to issue 110,000,000 shares of our capital stock, consisting of 100,000,000 shares of our common stock and 10,000,000 shares of our preferred stock. At May 21, 2013, approximately 27,806,211 shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding and 1,700,000 shares of our preferred stock were authorized and available for future issuance. Should we obtain additional financing, we may issue authorized and unissued shares of common stock at below current market prices or preferred stock that could dilute the earnings per share and book value of your shares of our common stock. There are risks relating to the issuance of additional shares of preferred stock, including deterring attempts by third parties to acquire us. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 1,700,000 additional shares of preferred stock, and to determine their price, and other rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions without any further vote or action by our shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock, including preferred stock that we may issue in the future. If preferred stock is issued, it may rank senior to our common stock in respect of the right to receive dividends and to participate in distributions or payments in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The provisions in our articles of incorporation authorizing preferred stock could delay, defer or prevent a change of control and could adversely affect the voting and other rights of holders of our common stock, including the loss of voting control to others, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. Substantial sales of our common stock by the holder of our 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock could cause our common stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2012, there were 27,259,869 outstanding shares of our common stock. However, the shares of our currently outstanding shares of 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock are convertible into another 40,000,000 shares of our common stock. Consipio, the holder of our currently outstanding 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock will be entitled to start selling the shares of common stock into which the preferred stock is convertible in June 2013 under Rule 144. In addition, in order to enable us to redeem the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock, we intend to register the public resale of all shares underlying the 6% Series B Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock during 2013. Therefore, Consipio will be eligible to resell substantial amounts of our common stock during 2013 in the public market. The sale of a significant number of our shares of common stock by Consipio may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Our stock may be traded infrequently and in low volumes, so you may be unable to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid prices if you need to sell your shares. The shares of our common stock may trade infrequently and in low volumes on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation may be attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company, we are relatively unknown, we are based in Barcelona, Spain, and conduct most of our operations outside of the U.S., and we are in the adult entertainment business. As a result of these factors, stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community who can generate or influence sales volume, may be reluctant to follow a company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a well-known issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. A broader or more active public trading market for our common shares may not develop or be sustained. Due to these conditions, you may not be able to sell your shares at or near bid prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. As a result, investors could, and should be prepared to, lose all or part of their investment. 22 Table of Contents You may have difficulty selling our shares if they are deemed “penny stocks.” Since our common stock is not listed on a Nasdaq Stock Market or a national securities exchange, trading in our common stock will be subject to the requirements of certain rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act, which require additional disclosure by broker-dealers in connection with any trades involving a stock defined as a penny stock (generally, any non-national securities exchange equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions that we may not fall within in the future). Such rules require the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and the risks associated therewith and impose various sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell penny stocks to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally defined as an investor with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 individually or $300,000 together with a spouse). For these types of transactions, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to the sale. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to the broker-dealer, current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock and, if the broker-dealer is the sole market-maker, the broker-dealer must disclose this fact and the broker-dealer’s presumed control over the market. Such information must be provided to the customer orally or in writing before or with the written confirmation of trade sent to the customer. Monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers by such requirements could discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, which could severely limit the market liquidity of the common stock and the ability of holders of the common stock to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 