Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the following risk factors in evaluating our Company and our business. If any of these risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not significant, develops into an actual event, then our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If that happens, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to our Liquidity We will require additional capital to fund operations and continue the development, commercialization and marketing of our product. Our failure to raise capital could have a material adverse effect on our business. Management continually evaluates plans to reduce its operating expenses, increase sales and increase its cash flow from operations. Despite our current sales, expense and cash flow projections and the cash available from our line of credit with DMRJ Group LLC, we will require additional capital in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 to fund operations and continue the development, commercialization and marketing of our products. Our failure to achieve our projections and/or obtain sufficient additional capital on acceptable terms would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operations and could require us to file for protection under bankruptcy laws. We will be required to repay our borrowings from DMRJ Group LLC on March 31, 2011. We will be required to repay all of our borrowings from DMRJ Group LLC on March 31, 2011. Our obligations to DMRJ are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our assets. As of June 30, 2010, the outstanding balances due to DMRJ under a senior secured convertible promissory note, a second secured promissory note and a revolving credit facility was $3,920,000, $1,000,000 and $8,143,000, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 the outstanding balances due to DMRJ under that senior secured convertible promissory note, a second secured promissory note and a revolving credit facility were $3,760,000, $1,000,000 and $10,994,000, respectively. If we are unable to repay these amounts as required, refinance our obliga tions to DMRJ, or negotiate extensions of these obligations, DMRJ may seize our assets and we may be forced to curtail or discontinue operations entirely. We have received a qualified audit opinion on our ability to continue as a going concern. The audit report issued by our independent registered public accounting firm issued on our audited financial statements for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 contains a qualification regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. This qualification indicates there is substantial doubt on the part of our independent registered public accounting firm as to our ability to continue as a going concern due to the risk that we may not have sufficient cash and liquid assets at June 30, 2010, to cover our operating capital requirements for the next twelve-month period and if sufficient cash cannot be obtained we would have to substantially alter our operations, or we may be forced to discontinue operations. Such an opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm may limit our ability to access cert ain types of financing, or may prevent us from obtaining financing on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that our accounting firm will not qualify its opinion in the future. -11- Risks Related to Our Business We have incurred substantial operating losses and we may never be profitable. There can be no assurance that our revenue will be maintained at the current level or increase in the future. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we had revenues of approximately $3,474,000 and $8,737,000, respectively. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we had losses from continuing operations of approximately $15,399,000 and $13,559,000, respectively. During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, we had net losses of approximately $15,523,000 and $12,751,000, respectively. There is a risk that we will never be profitable. We plan to further increase our expenditures to complete the development and commercializatio n of our new products, and to broaden our sales and marketing capabilities. As a result, we believe we will likely incur losses over the next several quarters. Our accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $89,332,000 and $72,678,000, respectively. Our ability to generate sufficient revenues to achieve profits will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: · the size of the markets we address; · the existence of competition and other solutions to the problems we address; · the extent of patent and intellectual property protection afforded to our products; · the cost and availability of raw material and intermediate component supplies; · changes in governmental (including foreign governmental) initiatives and requirements; · changes in domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; and · the costs associated with equipment development, repair and maintenance; and our ability to manufacture and deliver products at prices that exceed our costs. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past from quarter to quarter and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · changing demand for our products and services; · the timing of actual customer orders and requests for product shipment and the accuracy of our forecasts of future production requirements; · the reduction, rescheduling or cancellation of product orders by customers; · difficulties in forecasting demand for our products and the planning and managing of inventory levels; · the introduction and market acceptance of our new products and changes in demand for our existing products; · changes in the relative portion of our revenue represented by our various products, services and customers, including the relative mix of our business across our target markets; · changes in competitive or economic conditions generally or in our markets; · competitive pressures on selling prices; · the amount and timing of costs associated with product warranties and returns; · changes in availability or costs of materials, components or supplies; · changes in our product distribution channels and the timeliness of receipt of distributor resale information; · the amount and timing of investments in research and development; · difficulties in integrating acquired assets and businesses into our operations; and · charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting following acquisitions. · expectation that we will be required to record recurring non-cash adjustments to earnings in subsequent reporting periods, as a result of changes in fair value of the warrant derivative liability and the note conversion liability which will be subject to, among other factors, changes from time to time in the price of our common stock. -12- A substantial portion of our revenue in any quarter historically has been derived from orders booked and shipped in the same quarter, and historically, backlog has not been a meaningful indicator of revenues for a particular period. Accordingly, our sales expectations currently are based almost entirely on our internal estimates of future demand and not from firm customer orders. As a result of these factors, many of which are difficult to control or predict, as well as the other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report, we may experience material adverse fluctuations in our future operating results on a quarterly or annual basis. Our markets are subject to technological change and our success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new products. The market for our security products is characterized by: · changing technologies; · changing customer needs; · frequent new product introductions and enhancements; · increased integration with other functions; and · product obsolescence. Our success will be dependent in part on the design and development of new products. To develop new products and designs for our security market, we must develop, gain access to and use leading technologies in a cost-effective and timely manner and continue to expand our technical and design expertise. The product development process is time-consuming and costly, and there can be no assurance that product development will be successfully completed, that necessary regulatory clearances or approvals will be granted on a timely basis, or at all, or that the potential products will achieve market acceptance. Our failure to develop, obtain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for, or successfully market potential new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our sales. Our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. During the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, foreign sales represented 85% of total revenue with one customer from China representing 45% of our revenue. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, foreign sales represented 82% of total revenue with one customer from China representing 48% of our revenue. We anticipate that revenues from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenue. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: · changes in foreign currency exchange rates; · changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, particularly in developing or emerging markets; · potentially longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · differing legal and court systems; · differing tax laws and changes in those laws; · differing protection of intellectual property and changes in that protection; and · different regulatory requirements and changes in those requirements. -13- Our explosives detection products and technologies may not be accepted by government agencies or commercial consumers of security products which could harm our future financial performance. There can be no assurance that our explosives detection systems will achieve wide acceptance by government agencies, commercial consumers of security products, and market acceptance generally. The degree of market acceptance for our explosives detection products and services will also depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt and timing of regulatory approvals and the establishment and demonstration of the ability of our proposed device to detect trace explosives residues on personnel, baggage and other cargo. Our failure to develop a commercial product to compete successfully with respect to throughput, the ability to scan personnel, baggage and other cargo, and portability could delay, limit or prevent market acceptance. Moreover, the market for explosives detection systems, especially t race detection, is largely undeveloped, and we believe that the overall demand for explosives detection systems technology will depend significantly upon public perception of the risk of terrorist attacks. There can be no assurance that the public will perceive the threat of terrorist attacks to be substantial or that governmental agencies and private-industry will actively pursue explosives detection systems technology. Long-term market acceptance of our products and services will depend, in part, on the capabilities, operating features and price of our products and technologies as compared to those of other available products and services. As a result, there can be no assurance that currently available products, or products under development for commercialization, will be able to achieve market penetration, revenue growth or profitability. If we cannot obtain the additional capital required to fund our operations on favorable terms, or at all, we may have to delay or reconsider our growth strategy. Our growth strategy may require additional capital for, among other purposes, completing acquisitions of companies and customers’ product lines and manufacturing assets, integrating acquired companies and assets, acquiring new equipment and maintaining the condition of existing equipment. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, or if we desire to make additional acquisitions, we will require additional debt or equity financing. Adequate financing may not be available or, if available, may not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the additional securities will dilute the share ownership of our existing investors. In addition, we may grant future investors rights that are superior to those of our existing investors. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, we could be forced to curtail our growth strategy by reducing or delaying capital expenditures and acquisitions, selling assets or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. We depend on outside suppliers and subcontractors, and our production and reputation could be harmed if they are unable to meet our volume and quality requirements and alternative sources are not available. We have various “sole source” suppliers who supply key components for our products. Our outside suppliers may fail to develop and supply us with products and components on a timely basis, or may supply us with products and components that do not meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements. If any of these problems occur, we may be unable to obtain substitute sources of these products and components on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us, which could harm our ability to manufacture our own products and components profitably or on time, and to ship products to customers on time and generate revenues. In addition, if the processes that our suppliers use to manufacture products and components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable components from alternative supplier s. We depend on a contract manufacturer, and our production and products could be harmed if it is unable or unwilling to meet our volume and quality requirements and alternative sources are not available. We rely on a single contract manufacturer to provide manufacturing services for our explosives detection products. If these services become unavailable, we would be required to identify and enter into an agreement with a new contract manufacturer or take the manufacturing in-house. From time to time in fiscal 2010, this manufacturer has limited the number of detectors it would manufacture due to our inability to pay for the detectors on a timely basis. The refusal to manufacture detectors for a substantial period, or the loss of our contract manufacturer altogether, could significantly disrupt production as well as increase the cost of production, thereby increasing the prices of our products. These changes could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. -14- We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights adequately. Our ability to compete is affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and non-disclosure and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite these efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our proprietary information will be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology, or that our competitors will not independently develop technology that is substantially similar or superior to our technology. More specifically, we cannot assure you that any future applications will be approved, or that any issued patents will provide us with competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties. Nor can we ass ure you that, if challenged, our patents will be found to be valid or enforceable, or that the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate our products or processes or design their products around any patents that may be issued to us. Our success depends on our ability to obtain new patents and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Although we have ten United States patents issued and six United States patent applications pending for our explosives detection technology and processes, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain the patents applied for and maintain trade secret protection for our technology and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. The validity and breadth of claims in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. No assurance can be given that any pending patent applications or any future patent application will issue as patents, that the scope of any patent protection obtained will be sufficient to exclude competitors or provide competitive advantages to us, that any of our patents will be held valid if subsequently cha llenged or that others will not claim rights in or ownership of the patents and other proprietary rights held by us. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others have not or will not develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around any patents issued or that may be issued in the future to us. In addition, whether or not patents are issued to us, others may hold or receive patents which contain claims having a scope that covers products or processes developed by us. Moreover, there can be no assurances that patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights thereunder will provide any competitive advantage. We could incur substantial costs in defending any patent infringement suits or in asserting any patent rights, including those granted to third parties. Patents and patent applications in the United States may be subject to interference proceedings brought by the United States Patent & Trademark Office, or to opposition proceedings initiated in a foreign patent office by third parties. We may incur significant costs defending such proceedings. Any litigation or proceedings relating to the intellectual property rights of any parties, whether or not determined in our favor or settled by us, is costly and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights from third parties. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms if at all. If we do not obtain required licenses, we could encounter delays in product development or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products requiring such licenses could be foreclosed. Accordingly, challenges to our intellectual property, whether or not ultimately successful, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how and no assurance can be given that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, techniques or processes, that such technology or know-how will not be disclosed or that we can meaningfully protect our rights to such unpatented proprietary technology, trade secrets, or know-how. Although we have entered into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants, there can be no assurance that such non-disclosure agreements will provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary know-how. -15- Our future success depends on the continued service of management, engineering and sales personnel and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional personnel. Our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the efforts and abilities of members of senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior management or other key employees could adversely affect our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. There is intense competition for qualified employees in the security industry, particularly for highly skilled design, applications, engineering and sales people. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain technologists, managers, or other qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business or to replace qualified individuals who could leave us at any time in the future. Our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our resources, and will likely require the addition of new management and engineering staff as well as the development of additional expertise by existing management employees. If we lose the services of or fail to recruit engineers or other technical and management personnel, our business could be harmed. Periods of rapid growth and expansion could place a significant strain on our resources, including our employee base. To manage our possible future growth effectively, we will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems. In doing so, we will periodically implement new software and other systems that will affect our internal operations regionally or globally. Future growth would also require us to successfully hire, train, motivate and manage our employees. In addition, our continued growth and the evolution of our business plan will require significant additional management, technical and administrative resources. We may not be able to effectively manage the growth and evolution of our current business. We are exposed to product liability claims that could place a substantial financial burden on us if we are sued. The development and sale of explosives detection products entails an inherent risk of product liability. For example, if our products fail to adequately detect explosives, if we are unable to successfully train technicians to properly use our products, or if the market determines or concludes that any of our products are not safe or effective for any reason, we may be exposed to product liability claims. We currently carry product liability insurance. No assurances can be given, however, that our product liability insurance will be adequate to pay any claims that might arise. A product liability claim, whether meritorious or not, could be time-consuming, distracting and expensive to defend, could be harmful to our reputation, could result in a diversion of management and financial resources away from our primary business and could result in product recalls. In any such case, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and our business could fail. We use hazardous materials in our research and manufacturing activities. Any liability resulting from the misuse of such hazardous materials could adversely affect our business. Our research and manufacturing activities sometimes involve the use of various hazardous materials. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling, manufacturing, distributing, transporting and disposing of such materials comply with the standards for protection of human health, safety, and the environment, prescribed by local, state, federal and international regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Nor can we eliminate the risk that one or more of our hazardous material or hazardous waste handlers may cause contamination for which, under laws imposing strict liability, we could be held liable. While we currently maintain insurance in amounts which we believe are appropriate in light of the risk of accident, we could be held liable for any damages that might result from any such event. Any such liability could exceed our insurance and available resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. -16- We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting that will result in the restatement of our condensed consolidated financial statements included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2010. This material weakness could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report by management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. On October 14, 2010, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, in consultation with our management,determined that the condensed consolidated financial statements included in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2009, December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2010, should no longer be relied on due to issues raised by our independent accountants, Marcum LLP, regarding errors in our adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 815 “Derivatives and Hedging” related to the non-cash accounting treatment of financial instruments which are not deemed to be indexed to our common stock. Further, we are restating the aforementioned quarters to record, as of July 1, 2009 and August 31, 2009, the commitment dates of our Series F Convertible Preferred Stock, the deemed dividend resulting from the beneficial conversion feature contained in the Series F Convertible Preferred Stock. Our management identified a deficiency in respect of our internal controls over financial reporting, specifically in our controls over the adoption of Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815-40-15 - “Derivatives and Hedging.” related to the non-cash accoun ting treatment of financial instruments which are not deemed to be indexed to the company’s common, that constitutes a material weakness. If we fail to implement the required new or improved controls, we may be unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations. Under current rules, we are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls for the year ended June 30, 2010. Risks Related to Competition We may not be able to compete effectively against existing or new competitors. We believe that our ability to compete in the explosive detection systems market is based upon such factors as: product performance, functionality, quality and features; quality of customer support services, documentation and training; and the capability of the technology to appeal to broader applications beyond the inspection of passengers, baggage, and cargo carried on airlines. Certain of our competitors may have advantages over our existing technology with respect to these factors. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in convincing potential customers that our products will be superior to other systems given all of the necessary performance criteria, that new systems with comparable or greater performance, lower price and faster or equivalent throughput will not be introduced, or that, if such products are introduced, customers will not delay or cancel potential orders. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to bring to commercialization and further enhance our product to better compete on the basis of cost, throughput, accommodation of detection of passengers, baggage or other cargo carried onto airlines, or that we will otherwise be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. -17- Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to price our products and services at or below the prices of competing products and technologies in order to facilitate market acceptance. Accordingly, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond quickly to technological changes through the development and introduction of new products and enhancements. Product development involves a high degree of risk, and there can be no assurance that our new product development efforts will result in any commercially successful products. Our failure to compete or respond to technological change in an effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may face pricing pressures that could prevent us from maintaining the prices of our products. The sales process for our security products is typically a result of a request for quotations or tenders which are subjected to significant and time-consuming scrutiny prior to the determination of an award. In addition, we face aggressive cost-containment pressures from governmental agencies and the bidding process commonly involves several competitors, many of whom have greater financial and other resources that may enable them to submit bids at prices which might be significantly lower than the prices we may be able to offer. There can be no assurances that we will be able to maintain current prices in the face of continuing pricing pressures. Over time, the average price for our products may decline as the markets for these products become more competitive. Any material reduction in prod uct prices could negatively affect our gross margin, necessitating a corresponding increase in unit sales to maintain any given level of sales. Risks Related to Our Securities The delisting of our common stock by the NYSE Amex has limited our stock’s liquidity and could substantially impair our ability to raise capital. Our common stock was delisted by the NYSE Amex LLC effective in June 2009 as result of our failure to comply with certain continued listing requirements. Our common stock began trading on the Over-The-Counter-Bulletin-Board in May 2009 and currently trades under the symbol “IMSC”. We believe the delisting has limited our stock’s liquidity and could substantially impair our ability to raise capital. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly to date. In the past fiscal year, our stock price ranged from $0.03 to $0.73. The market price of our common stock may also fluctuate significantly in the future due to: · variations in our actual or expected quarterly operating results; · announcements or introductions of new products; · technological innovations by our competitors or development setbacks by us; · the commencement or adverse outcome of litigation; · changes in analysts’ estimates of our performance or changes in analysts’ forecasts regarding our industry, competitors or customers; · announcements of acquisitions or acquisition transactions; or · general economic and market conditions. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many security product companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies in our industry, and could harm the market price of our common stock. -18- Additional authorized shares of our common stock and preferred stock available for issuance may adversely affect the market. We are authorized to issue 50,000,000 shares of our common stock. In June 2010, our shareholders approved a proposal to increase the total number of shares of common stock we are authorized to issue to 200,000,000, but we have intentionally delayed the filing of Articles of Amendment to our Restated Articles of Organization with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to effect that increase. As of June 30, 2010, there were 24,624,195 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. However, the total number of shares of our common stock issued and outstanding does not include shares reserved in anticipation of the exercise of options, warrants, convertible debt instruments and convertible preferred stock. As of June 30, 2010, we had outstanding stock options and warrants to purchase approximately 6,301,000 shares of our common stock, the exercise price of which range between $0.08 per share to $12.45 per share, and we have reserved shares of our common stock for issuance in connection with the potential exercise of these instruments. As of June 30, 2010, the outstanding balance due under the senior secured convertible promissory notes and the convertible promissory note was $3,920,000 and $100,000, respectively, both of which are convertible into shares of our common stock at $0.08 per share. To the extent such options, warrants or additional investment rights are exercised the holders of our common stock will experience further dilution. Stockholders will also experience dilution upon the exercise of options granted under our stock option plans. In addition, in the event that any future financing or consideration for a future acquisition should be in the form of, be convertible into or exchangeable for, equity securities investors will experience additional dilution. The exercise of the outstanding options and warrants and the conversion of convertible debt instruments will reduce the percentage of common stock held by our current stockholders. Further, the terms on which we could obtain additional capital during the life of the derivative securities may be adversely affected, and it should be expected that the holders of the derivative securities would exercise them at a time when we would be able to obtain equity capital on terms more favorable than those provided for by such derivative securities. As a result, any issuance of additional shares of common stock may cause our current stockholders to suffer significant dilution which may adversely affect the market. In addition, we are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the terms of which may be fixed by our Board of Directors, of which 1,646,663 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2010. All of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock is held by our lender, DMRJ Group LLC, and is convertible into 25% of our common stock, calculated on a fully diluted basis. While we have no present plans to issue any additional shares of preferred stock, our Board of Directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to create and issue one or more series of such preferred stock and to determine the voting, dividend and other rights of holders of such preferred stock. The issuance of any of such series of preferred stock may have an adverse effect on the holders of common stock and could make a takeover of our company more difficult. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders who acquired their shares directly from our company in privately negotiated transactions may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to effective registration statements under the Securities Act of 1933 and under Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. R ule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitation, by our stockholders that are non-affiliates that have satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale registration statement may have material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. -19- There are limitations on director and officer liability which may limit our stockholders’ rights to recover for breaches of fiduciary duty. As permitted by Massachusetts law, our Restated Articles of Organization, as amended, limit the liability of our directors for monetary damages for breach of a director's fiduciary duties except in certain instances. As a result of these limitations and Massachusetts law, stockholders may have limited rights to recover against directors for breaches of their fiduciary duties. In addition, our bylaws provide that we will indemnify our directors, officers, employees and agents if such persons acted in good faith and reasoned that their conduct was in our best interest. The anti-takeover provisions of our Restated Articles of Organization and Massachusetts law may delay, defer or prevent a change of control. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. Of those 5,000,000 shares, 1,646,663 shares of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding as of June 30, 2010. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be harmed by, the rights of the holders of any shares of preferred stock that we have issued to date and which may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control because the terms of any issued preferred stock could potentially prohibit our consummation of any acquisition, reorgani zation, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction, without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. Our stockholders must give substantial advance notice prior to the relevant meeting to nominate a candidate for director or present a proposal to our stockholders at a meeting. These notice requirements could inhibit a takeover by delaying stockholder action. Massachusetts law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on our common stock to date and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, our agreements with lenders prohibit the payment of cash dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be shareholders’ sole source of gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 