Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”) involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in its Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company are unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, this “gap” will work against the Company, and its earnings may be negatively affected. See the section captioned “Interest Rate Sensitivity and Market Risk Analysis” in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located elsewhere in this report for further discussion. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and the Company’s ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to an increase in prepayments on the Company’s loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for 14 Table of Contents deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates affect the Company’s net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and its overall results. Although the Company’s asset-liability management strategy is designed to control its risk from changes in the general level of market interest rates, market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control, including inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, money supply and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. In view of the continued low interest rates on savings, loans and investments that currently prevail, it is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, and the Company cannot always accurately predict the nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect its business. A large percentage of the Company’s loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect its profitability. Approximately 86.5% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in the Company’s primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of the collateral and the Company’s ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon disposal of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, the Company’s profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. The Company may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of its commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of its loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of its loan portfolio through its internal loan review process and other relevant factors. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas in Texas, and in the greater San Diego, Los Angeles and San Francisco metropolitan areas in California. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company ’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors, could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect the Company ’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The Company’s small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the markets in Texas and California in which the Company operates, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. The Company could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on its foreclosed real estate assets. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be found on the properties that secure the Company’s loans. If the Company acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, it could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Although the Company has policies and procedures that require it to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, management, products and services of the target company; • Potential disruption to the Company’s business; • Potential diversion of the Company management’s time and attention; 16 Table of Contents • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. From time to time, the Company evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate any entity it may acquire and realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of its communications or information systems, the Company cannot assure that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The business of the Company is dependent on technology and its inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect its financial performance, and the Company may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, its subsidiary banks, and their respective operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and 17 Table of Contents operations of MetroBank or Metro United, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Company. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that shareholders may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors, with the directors of each class having staggered, three-year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president and chief executive officer, the majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. The trading volume in the Company Common Stock has been low. Although the Company common stock is listed for trading on the Global Market of the Nasdaq Stock Market, the trading volume in the Company common stock has been limited and is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market place of willing buyers and sellers of the Company Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the limited trading volume of the Company Common Stock, significant sales of its Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s executive officers and directors beneficially owned approximately 29.1% of the Common Stock. The significant amount of Common Stock owned by the Company’s executive officers and directors may adversely affect the development of a more active trading market. 18 Table of Contents The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had $36.1 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to the Company’s subsidiary trust, MCBI Statutory Trust I. The Trust purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors and common securities to the Company. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by the Trust, provided the Trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company’s Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 