Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of these individual risks described below, or any number of these risks occurring simultaneously, could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, business, or results of operations. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and political uncertainties. Like other companies, we are susceptible to the effects of the prolonged economic downturn and slow recovery characterized by high unemployment and decreased consumer and business spending. Macroeconomic conditions in the United States and abroad may affect our performance and that of our customers and suppliers. Continued uncertainty about global economic conditions pose a risk, as customers may postpone or reduce spending in response to restraints on credit. Further, our ability to access the traditional bank and capital markets may be negatively impacted, which could adversely impact our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. We remain subject to various domestic and international risks and uncertainties, including changing social conditions and uncertainties relating to the current and future political climate. Changes in policy resulting from the current political environment, fluctuations in global currencies, and continued worldwide political instability could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and the level of business activity of the defense industry or other market segments in which we participate. This may reduce our customers’ demand for our products and/or depress pricing of those products, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, and cash flows. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries and a limited number of customers. Approximately 77% of our current annual revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries. Of this amount, Boeing, through multiple contracts with various Company subsidiaries covering varying periods, accounted for approximately 21% of our consolidated net sales in 2013. Although business with our largest customers is typically split into several contracts, the loss of all of the business from any of our primary customers (whether by cancellation of existing contracts or the failure to award us new business) could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Within the commercial aerospace and defense industries are a relatively small number of consumers of titanium products 11 that typically have strong purchasing power as a result of consolidation and other factors. Those industries have historically been highly cyclical, resulting in the potential for sudden and dramatic changes in expected production and spending that, as a partner in the supply chain, can negatively impact our operational plans and, ultimately, the demand for our products and services. In addition, many of our customers are dependent on the commercial airline industry, which is subject to significant economic and political challenges due to threats or acts of terrorism, rising or volatile fuel costs, pandemics or other outbreaks of infectious diseases, aggressive competition, global economic slowdown, and other factors. Further, the new aerospace and defense platforms which use our products may be subject to production delays which affect the timing of the delivery of our products for such platforms. Any one or combination of these factors could occur suddenly and result in a reduction or cancellation in orders of new airplanes and parts which could have an adverse impact on our business. Neither we nor our customers may be able to project or plan in a timely manner for the impact of these events. Continued U.S. budget deficits could result in continued defense spending cuts and/or reductions in defense programs, including the JSF program, which could adversely impact us. Some of our customers are particularly sensitive to the level of government spending on defense-related products. Government programs are dependent upon the continued availability of appropriations, which are approved on an annual basis. Future reductions in defense spending could result from the current or future economic or political environment, such as recent sequestration of the defense budget, which could result in reductions in demand for defense-related titanium products. Further, changes to existing defense procurement laws and regulations, such as the domestic preference for specialty metals, could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant amount of forecasted revenue is associated with the JSF program. Continued U.S. Federal budget deficits could result in significant pressure to reduce the annual defense budget, potentially including cancellations of, reductions in, or delays of major defense programs such as the JSF program. Delays in the ramp up of the JSF program, or a reduction in the total number of aircraft produced, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. A significant amount of our future revenue is based on long-term contracts for new aircraft programs. We have entered into several long-term contracts in recent years to produce titanium mill products and complex engineered assemblies for several new aircraft programs, including the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, the JSF, and the Airbus family of aircraft, including the A380, the A350XWB and the A400M military transport. In order to meet the delivery requirements under each of these contracts, we have invested in significant capital expansion projects. We have also experienced significant delays with respect to the ramp-up of certain of these long-term programs due to production problems or other concerns experienced by our customers. In the event any such delays were to reoccur, or if any of these programs were to be cancelled, such events could result in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, cash flows, and financial condition. Integrating acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect our results and affect adversely the value of our stock following such acquisitions. We have completed various acquisitions that we believe will be beneficial to the Company and our shareholders. The success of these acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the businesses acquired. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If we are unable to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frames, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and as a result our results of operations, financial position, and cash flow may be adversely affected. 12 Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the acquired companies into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions include, among others: • integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties and equipment of RTI and acquired businesses; • integrating the sales and information technology systems of RTI and the acquired businesses; and • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies. If our internal controls are not effective, investors could lose confidence in our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, we are required to document and test our internal control over financial reporting, our management is required to assess and issue a report concerning our internal control over financial reporting, and our independent registered public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on our assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. We have determined that certain material weaknesses, as described in Part II—Item 9A, Controls and Procedures, of this Annual Report existed as of December 31, 2013. Accordingly, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2013. Management, with oversight from the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, has developed and presented a plan for the completion of remediation measures to address these weaknesses. Although we believe we are taking appropriate actions to remediate the control deficiencies we have previously identified, we cannot assure you that we will not discover other material weaknesses in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our Consolidated Financial Statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify these or other internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly, and our business, financial condition, and reputation could be harmed. Our failure to timely comply with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act may have an adverse effect on our ability to raise capital. As a result of our failure to timely comply with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act in 2013, we are currently subject to restrictions regarding the registration of our securities, including our common stock, under federal securities laws. Although we have regained compliance with our reporting obligations under the Exchange Act, for a certain period of time in calendar year 2014 we will be unable to use a shorter and less costly registration statement on Form S-3. This restriction increases our costs to access capital markets, which may adversely affect our business. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2013, we had goodwill of $117.6 million and other intangible assets of $53.8 million. Goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, we review goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets at least annually for impairment, and definite-lived intangible assets when facts and circumstances warrant an impairment review. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any impairment would be charged immediately through our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Any future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 We are dependent on various third-party services that are subject to price and availability fluctuations. We often rely on other companies to provide outside material processing services that may be critical to the manufacture of our products. We depend on these third parties to meet our contractual obligations to our customers and to conduct our operations. Our ability to meet our obligations to our customers may be adversely affected if these third parties do not provide the agreed-upon services in compliance with customer requirements and in a timely and cost-effective manner. Further, purchase prices and availability of these services are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain these critical services on a timely basis, at acceptable prices, or on other acceptable terms, if at all. Further, if an outside processor is unable to produce to required specifications, our additional cost to cure may negatively impact our margins. Such third parties may be less likely than us to be able to quickly recover from natural disasters or other events beyond their control, and may be subject to additional risks such as financial problems that limit their ability to conduct their operations. Many factors outside of their or our control, including without limitation, raw material shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity, labor disputes, transportation disruptions or weather conditions, could adversely affect their ability to return our products to us at favorable margins and in a timely manner. If we are unable to protect our data and process control systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, we could experience disruption to our operations, the compromise or corruption of confidential information, and/or damage to our reputation, relationship with customers, or physical assets, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. We have in place a number of systems, processes, and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations due to a cyber incident. Despite our security efforts, our information technology and infrastructure could be subject to attacks by hackers, computer viruses or physical or electronic breaches resulting from employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions, which could create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss, legal claims or proceedings, property damage, and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information. Furthermore, our customers are increasingly imposing more stringent contractual obligations on us relating to our information security protections and protocols. If we are unable to maintain protections and processes at a level commensurate with that required by our large customers, it could negatively affect our relationships with those customers and harm our business. Demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by decreased demand for our customers’ products and services. Our business is substantially derived from titanium mill products and fabricated metal parts, which are primarily used by our customers as components in the manufacture of their products. Our ability to meet our financial expectations could be directly impacted by our customers’ inabilities to meet their own financial expectations. A significant downturn in demand for our customers’ products and services could occur for reasons beyond their control such as unforeseen spending constraints, competitive pressures, rising prices, the inability to contain costs, and other domestic as well as global economic, environmental or political factors. Any resulting slowdown in demand by, or complete loss of business from, these customers as a result of decreased demand for their products could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position, including, but not limited to, impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets, which could be material. We are subject to competitive pressures. The titanium metals industry is highly-competitive on a worldwide basis. Our competitors are located primarily in the U.S., Japan, Russia, Europe, and China. Our Russian competitor, in particular, has significantly greater capacity than us and others in our industry. Additionally, our industry has been experiencing a period of consolidation, which further enhances competitive pressures. Not only do we face competition for a limited 14 number of customers with other producers of titanium products, but we also must compete with producers of other generally less expensive materials of construction including stainless steel, nickel-based high temperature and corrosion resistant alloys, and composites. Our competitors could experience more favorable operating conditions than us, including lower raw materials costs, more favorable labor agreements, or other factors which could provide them with competitive cost advantages in their ability to provide goods and services. Changes in costs or other factors related to the production and supply of titanium mill products, compared to costs or other factors related to the production and supply of other types of materials of construction, may negatively impact our business and the industry as a whole. New competitive forces unknown to us today could also emerge which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Our foreign competitors in particular may have the ability to offer goods and services to our customers at more favorable prices due to advantageous economic, environmental, political, or other factors. In addition, the titanium industry is constantly evolving and there is significant competition to develop improved processes and uses for titanium. If the Company fails to develop new processes, uses, or markets for titanium, it could result in the loss of market share and key customers. We may experience a lack of supply of raw materials at costs that provide us with acceptable margin levels. The raw materials required for the production of titanium mill products (primarily titanium sponge and scrap) are acquired from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we have long-term contracts in place for the procurement of certain amounts of raw material, and we believe we have adequate sources of supply to meet our short and medium-term needs, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers will fulfill their contractual obligations, and they may be adversely impacted by events within or outside of their control that may adversely affect our business operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate amounts of raw materials from other suppliers in the event that our primary suppliers are unable to meet our needs. We may experience an increase in prices for raw materials which could have a negative impact on our profit margins if we are unable to adequately increase product pricing, and we may not be able to project the impact that an increase in costs may cause in a timely manner. We may be contractually obligated to supply products to our customers at price levels that do not achieve our expected margins due to unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials. We may experience dramatic increases in demand and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate levels of raw materials at prices that are within acceptable cost parameters in order to fulfill that demand. We are subject to changes in product pricing. The titanium industry is highly cyclical. Consequently, excess supply and competition may periodically result in fluctuations in the prices at which we are able to sell certain products. Price reductions may have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, our ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, which are often beyond our control. Given the long manufacturing lead times for certain products, the realization of financial benefits from increased prices may be delayed. We may experience a shortage in the supply of energy or an increase in energy costs to operate our plants. Because our operations are reliant on energy sources from outside suppliers, we may experience significant increases in electricity and natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power, natural gas, or other resources due to natural disasters, interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes or the inability to extend expiring energy supply contracts on favorable economic terms, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We own twenty-six natural gas wells which provide some but not all of the non-electrical energy required by our Niles, Ohio operations. 15 We may not be able to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets, which could require us to record asset impairment charges. As of December 31, 2013, we had net property, plant, and equipment of $372.3 million. We operate in a highly-competitive and highly-cyclical industry. In addition, we have invested heavily in new machinery and facilities in order to win new long-term supply agreements related to next-generation aircraft such as the Boeing 787, the Airbus family of commercial aircraft, and the JSF program. If we were unable to realize the benefits under these agreements, for whatever reason, we could be required to record material asset and asset-related impairment charges in future periods which could adversely affect our results of operations. Many of our products are used in critical aircraft components and medical devices and must be manufactured to stringent quality standards. Given the critical nature of many of the end uses for our products, including specifically their use in critical rotating parts of gas turbine engines and their use in medical devices, a quality issue could have a material adverse impact on our reputation in the marketplace. While we maintain product liability insurance, including aircraft grounding liability of $500 million, should a quality or warranty claim exceed this coverage, or should our coverage be denied, such liability could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and reputation. Healthcare legislation has and may continue to impact our business. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively the “Acts”) were passed and signed into law in March, 2010. Among other things, the Acts impose an individual mandate for obtaining health insurance coverage; require plans to be sold on a guaranteed issue basis, which eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions; prohibit annual and lifetime maximum limits on certain essential benefits; restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. Provisions of the Acts become effective at various dates between their enactment in 2010 and the year 2020. The Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Labor and the Treasury Department have issued and are continuing to issue the necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the Acts, and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners continue to develop model regulations and best practices in connection with the Acts. Due to the breadth and complexity of the Acts, the fact that the implementing regulations and interpretive guidance are still being developed, and the phased-in nature of the Acts’ implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the Acts on our business. Depending on how and when the provisions of the Acts are implemented, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. Approximately 345 hourly, clerical and technical employees at our Niles, Ohio facility are represented by the USW. Our current labor agreement with this union expires June 30, 2018. Approximately 176 hourly employees at our RTI Advanced Forming facility in Washington, Missouri are represented by the IAMAW. Our current labor agreement with this union expires February 19, 2015. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate new bargaining agreements upon expiration of the existing agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by a labor stoppage. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement, or as a result of a dispute under our current collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions, our business, financial condition, cash flows, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 16 Our business is subject to the risks of international operations. We operate subsidiaries and conduct business with suppliers and customers in foreign countries that expose us to various risks associated with international business activities including potentially volatile economic and labor conditions, political instability, expropriation, and changes in taxes, tariffs, and other regulatory costs. We are also exposed to and could be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against other foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, and the British Pound. Although we are operating primarily in countries with relatively stable economic and political climates, there can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by risks inherent to international operations. Furthermore, our international operations subject us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. Failure by our employees or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, management, materials engineers and other technical specialists, and staff positions. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to perform until suitable replacements are found. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. The demand for our products and services may be affected by factors outside of our control. War, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues including pandemics, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a negative impact on the global economy as a whole. Our business operations, as well as our suppliers’ and customers’ business operations, are subject to interruption by those factors as well as other events beyond our control such as governmental regulations, fire, power shortages, and others. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or to receive materials from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by these events. We are required to comply with changing laws and regulations and new laws and regulations, including those related to environmental, health, safety and securities, which may adversely affect our business and subject the Company to substantial costs and liabilities. The Company is subject to numerous federal, state, local and international laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations are unclear, become effective over long periods of time, or require implementation of regulations by agencies. We own and/or operate a number of manufacturing and other facilities. Our operations and properties are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some environmental laws can impose liability for all of the costs of a contaminated site without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. We could incur substantial costs, including fines, penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, investigation and cleanup costs, natural resource damages and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations or the environmental permits required for our operations. Many of our properties have a history of industrial operations, including the use and storage of hazardous materials, and we are involved in remedial actions relating to some of our current and former properties and, along with other responsible parties, third-party sites. We have established reserves for such matters where appropriate. The ultimate costs of cleanup, and our share of such costs, however, are difficult to accurately predict and could exceed current reserves. We also could incur significant additional costs at these 17 or other sites if additional contamination is discovered, additional cleanup obligations are imposed and/or the failure of other responsible parties to participate or honor their financial responsibilities. In addition, while the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations has not had a material adverse impact on our operations in the past, such laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and revisions, and more stringent compliance requirements, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements, may be imposed in the future on us or the industries in which we operate. As a result, we could incur significant additional costs complying with environmental laws and regulations in the future. In addition, we are required to comply with various securities laws and regulations, including, but not limited to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act, among other provisions, contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries that are believed to be benefitting armed groups (“Conflict Minerals”). While the Dodd-Frank Act does not prohibit companies from using Conflict Minerals, the SEC mandates due diligence, disclosure and reporting requirements for companies which manufacture products that include components containing such conflict minerals. Our efforts to comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and other evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to result in increased costs and expenses. Complying with all of these various laws and regulations is complex and cumbersome. Any modifications in these laws and regulations applicable to us, the enactment of new laws and regulations, or any failure to comply with, or enhanced enforcement activity of, such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our working capital requirements may negatively affect our liquidity and capital resources. Our working capital requirements can vary significantly, depending in part on the timing of our delivery obligations under various customer contracts and the payment terms with our customers and suppliers. If our working capital needs exceed our cash flows from operations, we would look to our cash balances and availability for borrowings under our existing credit facility to satisfy those needs, as well as potential sources of additional capital, which may not be available on satisfactory terms and in adequate amounts, if at all. The price of our Common Stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may affect the price at which one could sell the shares of our Common Stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of our Common Stock could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. The market price and trading volume of our Common Stock have been and may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions, but also to a change in sentiment in the market regarding our industry operations, business prospects or liquidity. During the period for the 12 months ended December 31, 2013, our Common Stock has fluctuated from a high of $36.09 per share to a low of $26.05 per share. In addition to the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report, the price and volume volatility of our Common Stock may be affected by operating results that vary from expectations of management, analysts or investors, developments in or regulatory changes affecting our business or industry generally, announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions and other material events by us, our customers or our competitors, and changes in global financial and economic markets and general market conditions. Any volatility of or a significant decrease in the market price of our Common Stock could also negatively affect our ability to make acquisitions using Common Stock. Further, if we were to be the object of securities class action litigation as a result of volatility in our Common Stock price or for other reasons, it could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively affect our financial results. In addition, in recent years, the global equity markets have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies. The price of our Common Stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our Company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. 18 We may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our debt obligations. Our business has not generated significant cash flow from operations in recent years. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, or to refinance, our current indebtedness, depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations in the future. Our ability to generate cash flows from our operations is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our business may continue to not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures or accretive acquisitions. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at the time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our existing debt obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company received written comments from the SEC in July 2013 relating to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. One comment from the July 2013 comment letter currently remains unresolved, which relates to the Company’s treatment of its Canadian net deferred tax asset at its Canadian subsidiary, as discussed throughout this Annual Report. Following discussion with the Staff of the SEC regarding the comment, the Company reconsidered its position and determined that a valuation allowance against the Company’s Canadian deferred tax asset should have been recorded as of December 31, 2010. The Company determined that it should have given greater weight to its Canadian subsidiary’s history of cumulative losses relative to its expectations of future taxable income. As a result of recording the valuation allowance, the Company has corrected the deferred tax assets at each balance sheet date and its provision for income taxes in each affected period, as reflected in this Annual Report. The Company believes that this outstanding comment will be considered resolved by the SEC upon filing of this Annual Report. 19 