Item 1A RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have implemented a substantial restructuring of our operations and revised our strategic plan, and we may fail to successfully execute this plan. In October 2008, we announced a restructuring plan that will result in the reduction of approximately 30% of our workforce and a delay in the development activities on MAXY-G34, our lead drug candidate. We also announced our engagement of a financial advisor to assist us in evaluating various strategic options. These options could include a sale or disposition of one or more corporate assets, a strategic business combination, or other transactions. However, there can be no assurance that any particular strategic option or outcome will be pursued, whether any transaction, or series of transactions required to sell individual assets, will occur, or whether we will be able to successfully consummate any such transaction on a timely basis, on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we continue to execute our operating plan instead of pursuing a strategic option, our stock price could decline. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in implementing an option that is chosen by our board of directors or we may implement an option that yields unexpected results. The process of continuing to review, and potentially executing, strategic options may be very costly and time-consuming and may distract our management and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result, there can be no assurances that any particular business arrangement or transaction, or series of transactions, will be consummated or lead to increased stockholder value. To the extent that we elect to pursue a transaction or series of transactions that includes a sale of one or more corporate assets, our ability to sell any assets may be limited by many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions or the attributes of the particular asset, and we cannot predict whether we would be able to sell any particular asset on favorable terms and conditions, if at all, or the length of time needed to sell any asset. For example, the shares that we own of Codexis, Inc. common and preferred stock represent shares of a private company that are not freely tradeable and we cannot predict the likelihood or length of time for Codexis to achieve a liquidity event, if any, for its shares, such as an initial public offering or a sale of the company. We also have a number of early stage research programs, ancillary technologies and similar assets that we view as important to our ongoing operations, but that may not be accorded any additional value in an asset sale or other strategic transaction. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that we or our stockholders will realize any value from all of our assets or any particular asset. Furthermore, we may incur significant costs related to the execution of our revised strategic plan, such as legal and accounting fees and expenses and other related charges. We may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with this strategic plan. A considerable portion of the costs related to any strategic transaction, such as legal and accounting fees, will be incurred regardless of whether any transaction is completed. These expenses will decrease the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. 13 Table of Contents If we do not retain key employees, our ability to maintain our ongoing operations or execute a potential strategic option could be impaired. To be successful and achieve our objectives under our revised corporate strategy, we must retain qualified scientific and management personnel. The recently announced reduction of our workforce and the continued review of our strategic options may create uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, including our senior management, and to hire new talent necessary to maintain our ongoing operations, including the maintenance of the co-development agreement with Astellas for our MAXY-4 program, or to execute a potential strategic option, which could have a material adverse effect of our business. In addition, even if we retain key personnel, our recent restructuring and the revision of our corporate strategy could place significant strain on our resources and our ability to maintain our ongoing operations. Our restructuring plan may also require us to rely more heavily on third party contractors and consultants to assist with managing our operations. Accordingly, we may fail to maintain our ongoing operations or execute our strategic plan if we are unable to manage such changes effectively. If we are unable to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we may elect to further delay or cease all development activities on this program. We recently announced the delay of both Phase III manufacturing and the Phase IIb trial of MAXY-G34, our lead candidate, until we identify a partner who will share the costs of these activities. However, there can be no assurances that we will find a suitable partner or enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development of MAXY-G34. Accordingly, we may further delay or cease development of MAXY-G34, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to realize any value from this program. In addition, the delay of both Phase III manufacturing and the Phase IIb trial for this program is expected to have an adverse impact on the timeline for any potential commercialization of MAXY-G34, which could make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement to fund the further development of this product candidate and could limit the commercial potential of MAXY-G34, if commercialized. We have a history of net losses. We expect to continue to incur net losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $239.7 million. Although we achieved profitability in 2008, primarily due to the $90 million we received from Bayer HealthCare LLC in connection with the sale of our hematology assets, we expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future and may not achieve profitability in the future. To date, we have derived substantially all our revenues from collaborations, license agreements and grants and expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenue from such sources for the foreseeable future. Revenues from such sources are uncertain because such agreements and grants generally have fixed terms and may be terminated under certain conditions, and because our ability to secure future agreements will depend upon our ability to address the needs of current and potential future collaborators. As part of our revised corporate strategy, we may also sell assets that currently generate revenue for us. We expect that our operating expenses will exceed revenues in the near term and we do not expect to achieve profitability during the next several years, if at all. If the time required for us to achieve profitability is longer than we anticipate, we may not be able to continue our business. We are an early stage company deploying unproven technologies. If we do not develop commercially successful products, we may be forced to cease operations. You must evaluate us in light of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage biotechnology company. We may not be successful in the commercial development of products. Successful products will 14 Table of Contents require significant investment and development, including clinical testing, to demonstrate their safety and effectiveness before their commercialization. To date, companies in the biotechnology industry have developed and commercialized only a limited number of biological products. We have not proven our ability to develop or commercialize any products. We, alone or in conjunction with corporate collaborators, will need to conduct a substantial amount of additional development before any regulatory authority will approve any of our potential products. This research and development may not indicate that our products are safe and effective, in which case regulatory authorities may not approve them. Problems are frequently encountered in connection with the development and utilization of new and unproven technologies, and the competitive environment in which we operate could limit our ability to develop commercially successful products. The prospects of our current product candidates are highly uncertain. There is a substantial risk that our drug discovery and development efforts may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate recently completed a Phase IIa clinical trial in breast cancer patients for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia. While we have previously announced positive progress in this clinical trial, the results of preliminary studies and early-stage clinical trials do not necessarily predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. Moreover, in our industry, most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials and most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. Accordingly, negative or inconclusive results from ongoing or future clinical trials of MAXY-G34 could lead us to cease the development of this product candidate and decide not to advance this product candidate into later stage clinical trials, such as a Phase IIb trial or pivotal Phase III trials. We may also decide to delay or cease further development of the product candidate for a variety of other reasons, including evidence that MAXY-G34 may not meaningfully reduce the period or risk of neutropenia following chemotherapy, may remain in circulation longer than desired or cause adverse side effects. In addition, as noted above, regardless of the clinical properties of MAXY-G34, we may continue to delay or cease development of this product candidate at any time if we determine that we cannot afford the costs of further developing this product candidate ourselves and we are unable to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of this product candidate. Even if we are able to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of MAXY-G34 and this product candidate successfully completes clinical trials and is approved for marketing in the United States or other countries, it will need to compete with other G-CSF drugs then on the market. The ability of MAXY-G34 to be successful in the market will depend on a variety of factors, including, for example, whether MAXY-G34 is clinically differentiated from other G-CSF drugs, the scope and limitations of the label approved by regulators for the use of MAXY-G34, the price of MAXY-G34, reimbursement decisions by third parties with regard to MAXY-G34, and the effort and success of marketing activities undertaken with regard to MAXY-G34. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our MAXY-G34 product candidate may delay or materially impact the ability to commercialize MAXY-G34. We are aware that Amgen Inc. and other third parties have a number of issued patents that claim certain G-CSF compositions and their use. Amgen Inc. and other third parties also have pending patent applications that are directed at certain G-CSF compositions and their use and these applications could result in issued patents. The owners of issued patents, such as Amgen, Inc., could elect to commence a patent infringement suit against us with regard to MAXY-G34 in the courts or before the International Trade Commission. While we believe that we would have good defenses to any such suit, the outcome of patent litigation is necessarily uncertain and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of any such suit, and we may not prevail. If the outcome of any such suit or action was unfavorable to us, we might have to pay significant damages to the patent owner, and if any patents found to be infringed had not expired, we could be enjoined from commercializing or importing MAXY-G34. 15 Table of Contents For example, on June 3, 2008, the United States Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO) granted a U.S. patent (U.S. Patent No. 7,381,804B2) to Amgen with certain claims to mutated G-CSF molecules. We do not believe that the USPTO should have granted this patent because we do not believe the claims of the patent are valid. Moreover, the grant of this patent to Amgen does not affect the validity of our existing patents on our novel, proprietary G-CSF compositions. However, Amgen may contend that the claims of this recently issued patent cover our patented MAXY-G34 product candidate. While our current activities related to MAXY-G34 are exempt from patent infringement liability because these activities are strictly limited to obtaining information for regulatory approval, if and when our MAXY-G34 related activities extend beyond those related to seeking regulatory approval, such as, for example, if and when we commercialize MAXY-G34, Amgen might then commence an infringement action against us based on this patent and/or other related patents that it may be granted in the future. If Amgen elects to sue us, we believe that we would have viable defenses to any such infringement suit and intend to vigorously defend against any such claims. Typically, such defenses include non-infringement and invalidity claims. However, there can be no assurance that the relevant court would find in our favor with respect to such defenses. If we are unable to show that Amgen’s patent is invalid, or that we do not infringe the claims of such patent, and we are unable to obtain a license from Amgen for the use of their intellectual property, this may materially impact our ability to manufacture and sell MAXY-G34. The delay and cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceedings, such as interference or inter parte reexamination proceedings, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors, including Amgen, may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. In addition, the existence of this Amgen patent may limit our ability to enter into a partnering or other arrangement with respect to MAXY-G34. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time which may materially and adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. The development of human therapeutic products is long and uncertain. Most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials. Moreover, most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. In addition, due to the nature of human therapeutic research and development, the expected timing of product development, initiation of clinical trials and the results of such development and clinical trials are uncertain and subject to change at any point. Such uncertainty, which exists even for product candidates that appear promising based on earlier data, may result in research or development delays, clinical trial delays and failures, product candidate failures and delays in regulatory action or approval. Such delays or failures could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential development and commercialization of our product candidates and could drastically reduce the price of our stock and our ability to raise capital. Without sufficient capital, we could be forced to reduce or cease our operations. All of our product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would satisfactorily support the filing of an investigational new drug application (IND) with respect to our drug candidates, and the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. Moreover, the available animal models may be unsuitable for assessing our potential products for one or more indications, increasing the risk that animal models may not provide accurate or meaningful data as to the suitability or advantages of our potential products as treatments for the diseases or medical conditions of interest. Similarly, early-stage clinical trials may not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. In addition, there can be no assurance that the design of our clinical trials will result in obtaining the desired efficacy data to support regulatory approval. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are 16 Table of Contents promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or any foreign regulatory agency, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. The FDA and similar regulatory agencies determine the type and amount of data necessary to obtain approval of any drug candidate, and as a result of new data or changes in the policies or practices of such agencies, the type and amount of data required for approval may change in the period between the start of product development and the completion of clinical trials. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing any of our current or future product candidates could severely harm our business. The development of our product candidates, which is based on modifications to natural human proteins, may be subject to substantial delays, increased development costs, reduced market potential for any resulting product or the termination of the affected development program by us or a collaborator, each of which could adversely affect our business. We design our product candidates to confer what we believe will be improved biological properties as compared to one or more currently marketed products. As a result, our product candidates differ from currently marketed drugs in ways that we expect will be beneficial. However, the impact of the modifications that we make in our product candidates may not be fully apparent in preclinical testing and may only be discovered in clinical testing. Such altered properties may render a product candidate unsuitable or less beneficial than expected for one or more diseases or medical conditions of possible interest or make the product candidate unsuitable for further development. For example, our products may be found to be more immunogenic than the corresponding natural human proteins or demonstrate undesirable pharmokinetic or pharmodynamic properties. For a particular product candidate, this may lead to the redirection of the development strategy which could result in substantial delays, increased development costs, decreased likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, and reduced market potential for any resulting product. This also could result in the termination of the development of the affected product candidate. In either case, such results could adversely affect our business. In addition, we or a collaborator may determine that certain preclinical or clinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient therapeutic or commercial potential to warrant further advancement for a particular indication or all indications, and may elect to terminate a program for such indications or product candidates at any time. Our assessment of the commercial potential for a product may change significantly from the time when we invest in discovery and development to the time when the product either reaches the market or reaches clinical development stages that require investment at risk. Commercial potential can change due to many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, the qualitative and quantitative properties of medical reimbursement schemes at the time, the legal status for sale of biologic generics (i.e. bioequivalent protein drugs, generic biologicals and biogenerics), and the financial status of potential partner companies. As commercial potential decreases so the ability or interest of other parties to share the costs of further development of our products may decrease, thus precluding advancement of our products. Furthermore, we may conclude that a product candidate is not differentiated in a meaningful way from existing products, or that the costs of seeking to establish that a product candidate is differentiated would be prohibitive, or that the market size for a differentiated product with the attributes of a particular product candidate does not justify the expense and risk of further development. If we terminate a preclinical or clinical program in which we have invested significant resources, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. In particular, the failure of our MAXY-G34 product candidate in clinical development or MAXY-4 product candidates in preclinical development could have a material adverse impact on our business. Termination of either program may also cause the price of our stock to drop significantly. 17 Table of Contents Our clinical development strategy, which relies on third party contract research organizations, exposes us to additional risk. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates in the United States and other countries, and therefore rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, to assist us in designing our clinical trials, preparing documents for submission to regulatory authorities, obtaining regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials, enrolling qualified patients, conducting and maintaining our clinical trials, and analyzing the results of such trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, do not conduct the clinical trials in accordance with planned deadlines and the approved protocol and regulatory requirements, or are unable to manage the conduct of our clinical trials effectively in compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, it could adversely impact the results obtained in such trials and delay the progress or completion of clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products. In any such case, we may be affected by increased costs and delays or both, which may harm our business. Our revenues, expenses and operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues, expenses and operating results to fluctuate include: • the sale of an asset, or assets, that currently generate revenue for us; • the termination of research and development contracts with collaborators or government research grants, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our development or discovery efforts leading to milestones and royalties under collaboration arrangements, if any; • the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements; • the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to contract manufacturing, preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the timing and willingness of any existing or future collaborators to commercialize our products, which would result in royalties to us; and • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect the research and development expenditures of any future collaborator. In addition, a large portion of our expenses is relatively fixed, including expenses for facilities, equipment and personnel. Accordingly, if revenues fluctuate unexpectedly due to unexpected expiration of government research grants, failure to obtain anticipated new contracts or other factors, we may not be able to immediately reduce our operating expenses, which could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would likely decline. Our current and future product candidates could take a long time to complete clinical development, may fail in clinical development, or may never gain approval, which could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. The conduct of clinical trials for a single product candidate is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process and typically requires years to complete. In December 2008, we completed a Phase IIa clinical trial in 18 Table of Contents Eastern Europe for our MAXY-G34 product candidate for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in breast cancer patients. Thus, our most advanced product candidate is now only in the early stages of clinical trials. Our product candidates or potential product candidates may produce undesirable toxicities and adverse effects in preclinical studies. Such toxicities or adverse effects could delay or prevent the filing of an IND with respect to such product candidates or potential product candidates. In clinical trials, administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable toxicities or side effects. These toxicities or side effects could interrupt, delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Indications of potential adverse effects or toxicities which may occur in clinical trials and which we believe are not significant during the course of such trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse effects or toxicities when a drug has been used in large populations or for extended periods of time. Although MAXY-G34 has demonstrated properties in preclinical and early clinical testing indicating that it may have advantages as compared to currently marketed drugs, the results from preclinical testing in vitro and animal models, as well as early, small scale clinical trials, often are not predictive of results obtained in larger later stage clinical trials designed to prove safety and efficacy. For example, after promising preclinical and early clinical data from our lead MAXY-alpha product candidate, clinical trials of this product candidate were terminated after an unexpected reduction of the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects was observed and antibodies binding to MAXY-alpha were identified in a Phase I trial. As a result, there can be no assurances that clinical trials of any of our current or future product candidates will be completed or produce sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval or result in a marketed product. In addition, the timing of the commencement, continuation or completion of clinical trials may be subject to significant delays, or a clinical trial may be suspended or delayed by us, a collaborator, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies for various reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials that necessitate additional clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutions, review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials necessary for the conduct of the clinical trials; • the occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or properties or unforeseen adverse events, especially as compared to currently approved drugs intended to treat the same indications; • our lack of financial resources to continue the development of a product candidate; • future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or the policy of foreign regulatory agencies during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review; or • other reasons that are internal to the business of a collaborative partner, which it may not share with us. As a result of these risks and other factors, we may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of MAXY-G34 or our other current or future product candidates, only to learn that a particular product candidate has failed to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approval for one or more therapeutic indications, has failed to demonstrate clinically relevant differentiation of our products from currently marketed products, does not offer therapeutic or other improvements compared to other marketed drugs, has unforeseen adverse events or does not otherwise demonstrate sufficient potential to make the commercialization of the product worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing our product candidates could severely harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Our potential products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process and may never gain approval. If our potential products are not approved, we will not be able to commercialize those products. The FDA must approve any therapeutic product or vaccine before it can be marketed in the United States. Other countries also require approvals from regulatory authorities comparable to the FDA before products can be marketed in the applicable country. Before we can file biologic license application (BLA) with the FDA or other regulatory entity, the product candidate must undergo extensive testing, including animal studies and human clinical trials, which can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from such testing may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Because our potential products involve the application of new technologies and may be based upon new therapeutic approaches, they may be subject to substantial review by government regulatory authorities and these authorities may grant regulatory approvals more slowly for our products than for products using more conventional technologies. Neither the FDA nor any other regulatory authority has approved any therapeutic product candidate developed with our MolecularBreeding™ directed evolution platform for commercialization in the United States or elsewhere. We, or a collaborator, may not be able to conduct clinical testing or obtain the necessary approvals from the FDA or other regulatory authorities for our products. Regulatory approval of a BLA is never guaranteed, and the approval process typically takes several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and other regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon clinical trials or to repeat or perform additional preclinical testing and clinical trials. The number and focus of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA and other regulatory agencies might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if we receive regulatory approval to sell a product, the approved label for a product may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, even if MAXY-G34 is approved by the FDA, if we are not able to obtain broad labeling for this product allowing approved use with multiple chemotherapy regimens for multiple cancers, MAXY-G34 may not be adopted by hospital formularies or otherwise have limited commercial success which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Further, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continued review, and discovery of previously unknown problems or adverse events associated with an approved product or the discovery of previously unknown problems with the manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, the manufacturer or the manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In certain countries, regulatory agencies also set or approve prices. During the period while we are engaged in product development, the policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory entities may change and additional government laws or regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not obtain approval of our products or be permitted to market our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. In this regard, legislation has been proposed in the United States but not yet enacted into law that would define a regulatory approval process for protein drugs that are similar to already marketed protein drugs. 20 Table of Contents Our manufacturing strategy, which relies on third-party manufacturers, exposes us to additional risks. We do not currently have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture any product candidates or potential products ourselves. Completion of any clinical trials and any commercialization of our products will require access to, or development of, manufacturing facilities that meet FDA standards or other regulatory requirements to manufacture a sufficient supply of our potential products. We currently depend on third parties for the scale up and manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical and clinical purposes. If our third party manufacturer is unable to manufacture preclinical or clinical supplies in a timely manner, or is unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs or FDA or other regulatory requirements, it could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our potential products, entail higher costs and possibly result in our being unable to sell our products. In addition, technical problems or other manufacturing delays could delay the advancement of potential products into preclinical or clinical trials, delay or prevent us from achieving development milestones under a collaborative agreement or result in the termination of development of particular product candidates, adversely affecting our revenues and product development timetable, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that are suitable for the manufacture of protein pharmaceuticals in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements and there is often limited access to such facilities. If we are unable to enter into agreements with qualified manufacturers that will provide us with our product candidates in a timely manner and at an acceptable cost, the development or commercialization of a potential product could be delayed, which would adversely affect our business. With regard to our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we obtain polyethylene glycol (PEG) for use in making such product from Nektar Therapeutics AL, Corporation (formerly Shearwater Polymers, Inc.), a subsidiary of Nektar Therapeutics. If Nektar fails or is unable to timely supply us with PEG that meets our product needs, then we could encounter delays in the development or commercialization of MAXY-G34, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. In addition, failure of any third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including pre- or post-approval inspections and the current GMP requirements of the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies, could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. The manufacturing of our product candidates presents technological, logistical and regulatory risks, each of which may adversely affect our potential revenues. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of pharmaceuticals, and, in particular, biologicals, are technologically and logistically complex and heavily regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of our product candidates present many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • before we can obtain approval of any of our product candidates for the treatment of a particular disease or condition, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and other governmental authorities that the drug manufactured for commercial use is comparable to the drug manufactured for clinical trials and that the manufacturing facility complies with applicable laws and regulations; • it may not be technically feasible to scale up an existing manufacturing process to meet demand or such scale-up may take longer than anticipated; and • failure to comply with strictly enforced GMP regulations and similar foreign standards may result in delays in product approval or withdrawal of an approved product from the market. Any of these factors could delay any clinical trials, regulatory submissions or commercialization of our product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell any products. 21 Table of Contents We may need additional capital in the future. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. We anticipate that existing cash and cash equivalents and income earned thereon, together with anticipated revenues from existing collaboration and license agreements and grants, will enable us to maintain our currently planned operations for at least the next twelve months. However, our current plans and assumptions may change, and our capital requirements may increase in future periods depending on many factors, including payments received under our collaboration and license agreements and government grants, the progress and scope of our research and development projects, the extent to which we advance products into and through clinical trials with our own resources, the effect of any strategic transactions, and the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims. Changes may also occur that would consume available capital resources significantly sooner than we expect. We have no committed sources of capital and do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or, if available, that the terms will be favorable to us or our stockholders. If additional funds are not available, we may be forced to delay or terminate research or preclinical development programs, clinical trials or the commercialization of products, if any, resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or potential markets, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If adequate funds are not available, we will not be able to successfully execute our business plan or continue our business. If our collaborations are not successful or we are unable to enter into and maintain future collaboration arrangements for any of our product candidates, we may not be able to effectively develop and market some of our products. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to develop and commercialize multiple products, or the resources to complete all approval processes that may be required for these potential products, we have generally sought to enter into collaborative arrangements to fund the development of new product candidates for specific indications and to develop and commercialize potential products. We are currently party to a collaboration arrangement only with respect to our MAXY-4 product candidates and, if we are unable to enter into any new collaboration arrangements, or if existing or future collaboration arrangements are not maintained, our potential products may not be commercialized. We have limited or no control over the resources that a collaborator may devote to the development and commercialization of our potential products. A collaborator may elect not to develop potential products arising out of a collaborative arrangement or not to devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Further, a collaborator may not perform its obligations as expected and may delay the development or commercialization of a product candidate, terminate its agreement with us, or breach or otherwise fail to conduct its collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our potential products. For example, if we are unable to enter into a collaboration or licensing arrangement for the continued clinical development of MAXY-G34, or are unable to maintain our existing collaboration arrangement for our MAXY-4 program, we may elect to delay or discontinue further development of such program, which may harm our business. Any conflicts with a collaborator could harm our business. An important part of our strategy involves conducting proprietary research programs. As a result, we may pursue opportunities in fields that could conflict with a future collaborator. Moreover, disagreements with a collaborator could develop over rights to our intellectual property. Any conflict with a collaborator could reduce our ability to obtain future collaboration agreements and negatively impact our relationship with a future collaborator, which could reduce our revenues. 22 Table of Contents In addition, a collaborator may market products intended to treat the medical conditions that our product candidates are planned to be used to treat, and could become our competitors in the future. For example, a collaborator could develop and commercialize competing products, fail to rapidly develop our product candidates, fail to obtain timely regulatory approvals for product commercialization, terminate their agreements with us prematurely, or fail to devote sufficient resources to allow the development and commercialization of our products. Any of these circumstances could harm our product development efforts. We have limited ability to prevent actions by any future collaborator that could have any adverse impact on the development and commercialization of our related product candidates. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to practice our technologies and erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningfully defending intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We apply for patents covering our technologies and potential products as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Enforcement of our patents against infringers could require us to expend significant amounts with no assurance that we would be successful in any litigation. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies or products. In addition, others may challenge or invalidate our patents or our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. The USPTO adopted rules that were to become effective on November 1, 2007, regarding processes for obtaining patents in the United States. However, in April 2008, the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia granted summary judgment for plaintiffs challenging the new rules to permanently enjoin enforcement of the new rules by the USPTO. If the USPTO successfully appeals the court’s decision and the rules are implemented, these rules could make it more difficult for patent applicants to obtain patents, especially with regard to biotechnology products and processes. Although we do not believe that the rule changes, if made effective, would likely have a material adverse impact with regard to our MAXY-G34 or MAXY-4 programs, it may be more difficult to obtain patent protection in the United States for any future product candidates. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 23 Table of Contents Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could require us to shut down some of our operations. Our ability to develop products depends in part on not infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. In particular, others have obtained patents, and have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications that may issue as patents that cover genes or gene fragments or corresponding proteins or peptides that we may wish to utilize to develop, manufacture and commercialize our product candidates. There are often multiple patents owned by third parties that cover particular proteins and related nucleic acids that are of interest to us in the development of our product candidates. For example, we are aware that Amgen, Inc. and others have issued patents and pending patent applications relating to G-CSF. To the extent that these patents, or patents that may issue in the future, cover methods or compositions that we wish to use in developing, manufacturing or commercializing our product candidates, and such use by us or on our behalf would constitute infringement of an issued valid patent claim, we would need to obtain a license from the proprietor of the relevant patent rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. In particular, our efforts to develop improved, next-generation protein pharmaceuticals could lead to allegations of patent infringement by the parties that hold patents covering other versions of such proteins or methods of making and using such proteins. In addition, third parties that do not have patents that currently cover our activities may obtain such patents in the future and then claim that our activities or product candidates infringe these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims or enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In addition, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, or be required to cease commercializing affected products. We monitor the public disclosures of other companies operating in our industry regarding their technological development efforts. If we determine that these efforts violate our intellectual property or other rights, we intend to take appropriate action, which could include litigation. Any action we take could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. Budget or cash constraints may force us to delay or terminate our efforts to develop certain products and could prevent us from executing our business plan, meeting our stated timetables and commercializing our potential products as quickly as possible. Because the research and development of pharmaceuticals is a long and expensive process, we must regularly assess the most efficient allocation of our research and development resources. Accordingly, we may choose to delay or terminate our research and development efforts for a promising product candidate to allocate those resources to another program, which could cause us to fall behind our timetables for development and prevent us from commercializing product candidates as quickly as possible. As a result, we may not be able to fully realize the value of some of our product candidates in a timely manner, since they will be delayed in reaching the market, or may not reach the market at all. For example, in October 2008, we announced the delay of both Phase III manufacturing and a Phase IIb trial of MAXY-G34, our lead candidate, until we identify a partner who can share the costs of these activities and the delay of these activities are expected to have a material impact on the timeline for any potential commercialization of MAXY-G34. We also implemented a restructuring plan that will result in the reduction of approximately 30% of our workforce and announced the engagement of a financial advisor to assist us in evaluating strategic options. 24 Table of Contents We are continuing our efforts to contain costs and continue to believe that strict cost containment in the near term is essential if our current funds are to be sufficient to allow us to continue our currently planned operations and execute our revised strategic plan. We assess market conditions on an ongoing basis and plan to take appropriate actions as required. However, we may not be able to effectively contain our costs and achieve an expense structure commensurate with our business activities and revenues. As a result, we could have inadequate levels of cash for future operations or for future capital requirements, which could significantly harm our ability to operate the business. Our revenues have primarily been derived from collaboration and license agreements and government grants, and our inability to maintain these grants and agreements or establish and maintain new collaborations, license agreements or grants would adversely impact our revenues, financial position and results of operation. We currently have a collaboration agreement for our MAXY-4 program, various government grants and a license agreement with Codexis that we expect to generate revenue for the remainder of 2009 and expect that a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future will result from these sources. If these agreements or grants are materially amended, terminated, or we sell any such asset, and we are unable to enter into new agreements or obtain new grants, our revenues, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Other biological products may compete with our products. If approved for sale by regulatory authorities, our next-generation protein therapeutics will likely compete with already approved earlier-generation products based on the same protein. In addition, as the patent protection for such earlier-generation protein products expires, we expect that additional products with amino acid sequences identical or substantially similar to those of the earlier-generation protein products that have lost patent protection will also enter the marketplace, and compete with such earlier generation protein products and our products. This competition may be intense, with success determined by product attributes, price and marketing power. The availability of such similar products may result in price erosion for all products of the class and could lead to limits on reimbursement for our products by third party payors. With regard to our MAXY-G34 product candidate, we expect Neulasta® and Neupogen® to compete with MAXY-G34, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that BioGeneriX AG and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. are developing G-CSF products based on naturally occurring human G-CSF. With regard to our MAXY-4 product candidates, we expect Orencia® (Bristol Myers Squibb Company) to compete with MAXY-4, if commercialized. In addition, we are aware that Bristol Myers Squibb Company is also developing belatacept that, if marketed, could compete with MAXY-4. The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA) has adopted guidelines for assessing the comparability of biosimilar products including G-CSF. The basis for such approvals in the European Union will be proof of comparability of the new protein drug to the prior drug, which will require clinical studies of the biosimilar protein drug. In the United States, there is presently no legislation that specifically addresses the regulatory process for approval of biosimilar protein drugs, and to date only a biosimilar human growth hormone and certain insulin products have been approved by the FDA under a new drug application (NDA) in accordance with Section 505(b)(2) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. However, legislation has been introduced into both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives that addresses the development path and requirements for biosimilar protein drugs. It is not clear whether such legislation will be enacted into law, and if passed, what the substance of such legislation will be. However, any law that permits the approval of biosimilars would likely lead to the eventual introduction of biosimilar protein products in the United States, which could result in increased competition for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. 25 Table of Contents Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. The biotechnology industry is characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of gene research is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Rapid technological or product development by others may result in our products and technologies becoming obsolete. As a company that is focused on next-generation protein therapeutic products, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from both large and small biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies for modifying DNA and proteins. These companies and organizations may develop technologies that are alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors in the protein optimization field, including companies that have developed and commercialized prior versions of protein therapeutic products, may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Some of these competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets to produce commercial products. In addition, therapeutic products that are small molecules may be developed by our competitors that could reduce or displace the market for our protein therapeutic products. Small molecule drugs are often less expensive and easier to administer than protein therapeutics and therefore would have competitive advantages if they were developed and shown to be safe and effective for the indication that our product candidates are targeting. Even if approved by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency, any products that we develop through our technologies will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets may fail to achieve market acceptance, which would impair our ability to become profitable. Most of the companies and organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staff and facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in modifying DNA and proteins, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop technologies and products more easily, which would render our technologies and products and those of a collaborator obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, if any of our drug candidates are approved for commercial sale, they will need to compete with other products intended to treat the same disease, including the marketed versions of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve, and possibly including other variant versions of such drug, and generic bioequivalent or biosimilar versions of such drugs, and small molecule drugs. Such competition may be intense and lead to price reductions for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Moreover, any adverse developments related to a currently marketed version of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve or a generic bioequivalent or biosimilar version of such drug may have a significant adverse impact on the continued development or future commercialization and marketing of our related product candidates and could cause us to change our development plans or discontinue further development of such product candidates. If we are unable to market and commercialize our product successfully, our business would be adversely affected. Legislative actions, new accounting pronouncements and higher compliance costs may adversely impact our future financial position and results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected earnings fluctuations and may adversely affect our reported results of operations. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of such pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the recent past and may occur in the future. In addition, we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. In addition, compliance with changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may also result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related SEC regulations and Nasdaq Global Market listing requirements, have often created uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are 26 Table of Contents committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and cause a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading prices of life science company stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced significant price fluctuations in the last several years. During 2008, the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market ranged from $2.95 to $9.22. The valuations of many life science companies without product revenues and earnings, including ours, are based on valuation standards such as price to sales ratios and progress in product development or clinical trials. Trading prices based on these valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology or life science companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • our consummation, or our failure to consummate, any strategic transaction; • our failure to meet our publicly announced revenue and/or expense projections and/or product development timetables; • adverse or inconclusive results or delays in preclinical development or clinical trials; • any entry into or material amendment or termination of a collaborative or license agreement; • any decisions to discontinue or delay development programs or clinical trials; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and life science industries; • changes in the market valuations of other biotechnology or life science companies; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • changes in general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes, terrorist acts and other factors; • developments in or challenges relating to our patent or other proprietary rights, including lawsuits or proceedings alleging patent infringement based on the development, manufacturing or commercialization of our product candidates; and • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market. . In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation. Substantial sales of shares may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, the market price of our common stock may decline. Our common stock trading volume is low and thus the market price of our common stock is particularly sensitive to trading volume. Significant sales of our common stock may adversely impact the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to preserve our cash balances or access such sources if necessary. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. As of December 31, 2008, we had $206.5 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. While we maintain an investment portfolio primarily of short-term commercial paper and money market funds and have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen. Under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that we would be able to preserve our cash balances or that such sources would be available or sufficient for our business. If we or a collaborator receives regulatory approval for one of our drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. Any regulatory approvals that we or a collaborator receives for one of our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency approves any of our drug candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restriction on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. We may be subject to costly product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance. Because we conduct clinical trials in humans, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse effects. We currently maintain product liability insurance for our clinical trials, however, such liability insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any liabilities that arise from clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, our insurance coverage. Some of our existing stockholders can exert control over us, and may not make decisions that are in the best interests of all stockholders. As of December 31, 2008, our executive officers and directors, together with principal stockholders holding more than 5% of our common stock, beneficially owned approximately 39% of our common stock in the aggregate. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert a significant degree of influence over our management and affairs and over matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock, even when a change may be in the best interests of all stockholders. In addition, the interests of this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders and accordingly, they could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements that we would not otherwise consider. This concentration of ownership could also depress our stock price. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results. Our U.S. facilities are located in our corporate headquarters in Redwood City, California near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 