ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Most of our revenue is attributable to Google and Yahoo!, and the loss of or a payment dispute with either of these customers (or any future significant customer) would harm our business and financial results. We acquire rights to content from third-party content providers, whom we refer to as customers, and our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain and renew relationships with these customers. Google and Yahoo! jointly accounted for over 95% of our online search revenues in 2009, 2008 and 2007, and we expect that concentration will continue. Our principal agreements with Google and Yahoo! expire in April and January 2011, respectively. In addition, Google, Yahoo! and our other customers are competitors of each other, and the way we do business with one of them may not be acceptable to one or some of their competitors with whom we also do business, which may result in Google, Yahoo! or other customers not renewing their agreements with us on favorable terms or at all. Google, Yahoo! or other customers are also our competitors, and they have had relationships with some of our current and potential search distribution partners. In addition to competing with us on their own Web properties, our customers may, in the future, contract directly with our distribution partners to provide online search services and products. If Google, Yahoo! or any future significant customer were to substantially reduce or eliminate the content it provides to us or to our distribution partners, not renew its contract with us on favorable terms, be unwilling to pay us amounts that it owes us, or dispute amounts it owes us or has paid to us for any reason (including for the reasons described in the risk factors below), our business and financial results could materially suffer to the extent we were unable to establish and maintain new customer relationships, or expand our remaining customer relationships, to replace the lost or disputed revenue. Failure by us or our search distribution partners to comply with the guidelines promulgated by Google and Yahoo! relating to the use of content may cause that customer to temporarily or permanently suspend the use of its content or terminate its agreement with us, or may require us to modify or terminate certain distribution relationships. If we or our search distribution partners fail to meet the guidelines promulgated by Google or Yahoo! for the use of their content, we may not be able to continue to use their content or provide the content to such distribution partners. Our agreements with Google and Yahoo! give them the ability to suspend the use and the distribution of their content for non-compliance with their requirements and guidelines and, in the case of breaches of certain other provisions of their agreements, to terminate their agreements with us immediately, regardless of whether such breaches could be cured. The terms of the customer agreements with Google and Yahoo! and related guidelines are subject to differing interpretations by the parties. Google and Yahoo! have in the past suspended, and may in the future, suspend their content provided to our Web sites or the Web sites of our distribution partners, without notice, if they believe that we or our distribution partners are not in compliance with their guidelines or are in breach of the terms of their agreements. During such suspension we will not receive any revenue from our site or the site of the affected distribution partner with respect to the suspended content, and the loss of such revenue could harm our business and financial results. Additionally, as our business evolves, we expect that the guidelines of Google and Yahoo!, as well as the parties’ interpretations of compliance, breach and sufficient justification for suspension of use of content will change. This may result in further suspensions of our use and may require us to terminate our agreement with distribution partners or forego entering into agreements with distribution partners. The loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners as a result of suspension, termination or modification of distribution or customer agreements, particularly our Google and Yahoo! agreements, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 11 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on our relationships with a small number of distribution partners who distribute our online search services, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We rely on our relationships with online search distribution partners, including Internet service providers, Web portals and software application providers, for distribution of our online search services. In 2009, 76% of our total revenues came from searches conducted by end users on the Web properties of our search distribution partners. We generated approximately 42%, 23% and 31% of our online search revenues through relationships with our top five distribution partners in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. There can be no assurance that these relationships will continue or will result in benefits to us that outweigh their cost. Moreover, as the proportion of our revenue generated by distribution partners has increased, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience less control and visibility over performance. One of our challenges is providing our distribution partners with relevant products and services at competitive prices in rapidly evolving markets. Distribution partners may create their own products and services or may seek to license products and services from our competitors or replace the products and services that we provide. Also, many of our distribution partners have limited operating histories and evolving business models that may prove unsuccessful even if our products and services are relevant and our prices competitive. If we are unable to maintain relationships with our distribution partners, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with most of our distribution partners come up for renewal in 2010 and 2011. In addition, some of our distributors have the right to immediately terminate their agreements in the event of certain breaches. Such agreements may be terminated, may not be renewed or may not be renewed on favorable terms, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial results. We anticipate that our content and distribution costs for our revenue-sharing arrangements with our distribution partners will increase as revenues grow, and may increase as a percentage of revenues to the extent that there are changes to existing arrangements or we enter into new arrangements on less favorable terms. In addition, competition continues for quality consumer traffic in the online search market. Recently, we have experienced increased competition from our customers as they seek to enter into content provider agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Any difficulties that we experience with maintaining or strengthening our business relationships with our major distribution partners could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. If advertisers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic to their sites through their paid-per-click advertisements, they may reduce or eliminate their advertising through the Internet. Further, if Google, Yahoo! or other customers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic from our own Web sites or the Web property of a distribution partner, they may reduce the fees they pay to us. Either of these factors could have a negative material impact on our business and financial results. Most of our revenues from our online search business are based on the number of paid clicks on commercial search results served on our owned and operated Web properties or our distribution partners’ Web properties. Each time a user clicks on a commercial search result, the customer that provided the commercial search result receives a fee from the advertiser who paid for the click and the customer pays us a portion of that fee. If the click originated from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties, we share a portion of the fee we receive with such partner. If an advertiser receives what it perceives to be poor quality traffic, meaning that the advertiser’s objectives are met for an insufficient percentage of clicks for which it pays, the advertiser may reduce or eliminate its advertisements through the customer that provided the commercial search result to us. This leads to a loss of revenue for our customers and consequently fewer fees paid to us. Also, if a customer perceives that the traffic originating from one of our Web properties or the Web property of a distribution partner is of poor quality, the customer may discount the amount it charged all advertisers whose paid click advertisements appeared on such Web site or Web property based on the amount of poor quality traffic the 12 Table of Contents customer deems to have been generated, and accordingly may reduce the fees it would have otherwise paid us. The customer may also suspend or terminate our ability to provide its content through such Web sites or Web properties if such activities are not modified to satisfy the customer’s concerns. The payment of fewer fees to us or the inability to provide content through such Web sites or Web properties, particularly the content of Google and Yahoo!, could have a material negative effect on our business and financial results. Poor quality traffic may be a result of invalid click activity. Such invalid click activity occurs, for example, when a person or automated click generation program clicks on a commercial search result to generate fees for the Web property displaying the commercial search result rather than to view the Web page underlying the commercial search result. Some of this invalid click activity is referred to as “click fraud.” When such invalid click activity is detected, the customer may not charge the advertiser or may refund the fee paid by the advertiser for such invalid clicks. If the invalid click activity originated from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties or our owned and operated properties, such non-charge or refund of the fees paid by the advertisers in turn reduces the amount of fees the customer pays us. The resulting loss of revenue, particularly with respect to Google or Yahoo! content, could harm our business and financial results. A significant part of our growth strategy involves identifying, acquiring or developing and successfully integrating businesses, some or all of which may not be complementary to our current operations or leverage our current infrastructure and operational experience. Our financial and operating results will suffer if we are unsuccessful in integrating acquired businesses. An important component of our strategy for future growth is to identify, acquire or develop and successfully integrate new businesses into InfoSpace. We may be unable to identify acceptable targets for acquisition or development, and if we are successful, we will likely decide to diversify our business by acquiring targets that may not be complementary to our current operations and may not leverage our existing infrastructure or operational experience. Further, competition for acquisitions of businesses has been, and may in the future continue to be, intense. As a result, even if we are able to identify an acquisition that we would like to consummate, we may not be able to complete the acquisition on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, any such acquisition may not prove successful. In the past, our financial results have suffered significantly due to impairment charges of goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior acquisitions. Acquisitions or development of new businesses may involve the use of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of stock, the potential incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets. If outside financing is needed, we may be unable to obtain it on acceptable terms or at all in light of the current capital market conditions and other factors. The cost of development or acquisition, as the case may be, may be greater than anticipated by us or investors. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems and management and other personnel of acquired companies that result in unanticipated costs, delays or allocation of resources; • the dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of issuances of stock, as well as incurring operating losses and the amortization of acquired intangible assets for the acquired business; • initial stock volatility due to the perceived value of the acquired business by investors; • diverting management’s attention from current operations and other business concerns, including potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; • disruption of our ongoing business or the ongoing acquired business, including impairment of existing relationships with our employees, distributors, suppliers or customers or those of the acquired companies; 13 Table of Contents • diversion of capital from other uses; • failing to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner or at all; • difficulties in acquiring foreign companies, including risks related to integrating operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and • adverse outcome of litigation matters assumed in or arising out of the acquisitions. Development or acquisition of a technology or business, and then integrating that technology or business into InfoSpace, will be complex, time consuming and expensive, particularly if we acquire a technology or business that is not in our current industry. For example, the successful integration of an acquisition requires, among other things, that we retain key personnel; maintain and support preexisting supplier, distribution and customer relationships; and integrate accounting and support functions. The complexity of the technologies and operations being integrated and, in the case of an acquisition, the disparate corporate cultures and/or industries being combined, may increase the difficulties of integrating an acquired technology or business. If our integration of acquired or internally developed technologies or businesses is not successful, we may experience adverse financial or competitive effects. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the short- or long-term value of any technology or business that we develop or acquire will be equal to the value of the cash and other consideration that we paid or expenses we incurred. We have a history of incurring net losses, we may incur net losses in the future, and we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have incurred net losses on an annual basis for all but four of the years since our inception, and as of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.0 billion. We may incur net losses in the future, including but not limited to losses resulting from our operations, loss on investments, the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, losses from acquisitions, restructuring charges or expense related to stock-based compensation and other equity awards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and maintain consistent profitability in the future. Our financial results are likely to continue to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to continue to be volatile or decline. Our financial results have varied on a quarterly basis and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Many factors could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate materially, including but not limited to: • changes or potential changes in our relationships with Google or Yahoo! or future significant customers, such as effects of changes to their requirements or guidelines or their measurement of the quality of traffic we send to their advertiser networks, and any resulting loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners; • the loss, termination or reduction in scope of key distribution relationships, for example as a result of distribution partners licensing content directly from content providers or any suspension by our customers (particularly Google and Yahoo!) of the right to use or distribute content on the Web properties of our distribution partners; • our strategic initiatives and our ability to implement those initiatives, including increased costs related to investments for new initiatives, including new products and services, marketing and new distribution channels; • the mix of search revenues generated by our owned and operated Web properties versus our distribution partners’ Web properties, and the mix of revenues generated by our search business versus other businesses we develop or acquire; 14 Table of Contents • our ability to attract and retain quality traffic; • litigation expenses, including but not limited to settlement costs; • variable demand for our products and services, rapidly evolving technologies and markets, and consumer preferences; • the effects of acquisitions by us, our customers, or our distribution partners; • increases in the costs or availability of content for our products and services; • additional restructuring charges we may incur in the future; • the economic downturn, which may lead to lower online advertising spend by advertisers, resulting in lower monetization rates for paid search; • the adoption of new laws, rules or regulations, or new court rulings, that adversely affect our ability to continue to acquire content and distribute our search products and services, or the ability of our customers or distribution partners to continue to provide us with their content or distribute our products and services, that affect our ability to offer non-search products and services such as our recently launched Haggle.com auction service, or increase our potential liability; • impairment in the value of long-lived assets or the value of acquired assets, including goodwill, core technology and acquired contracts and relationships; • the effect of changes in accounting principles or in our accounting treatment of revenues or expenses; and • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards. For these reasons, among others, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast our future performance. Furthermore, our fluctuating operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors and financial results volatility could make us less attractive to investors, either of which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Since our common stock began trading on December 15, 1998, our stock price has ranged from $3.70 to $1,385.00 (as adjusted for stock splits). Between January 8, 2008, which was the date that we paid our most recent special dividend, and December 31, 2009, our stock price has ranged from $5.20 to $12.52. On February 19, 2010, the closing price of our common stock was $10.35. Our stock price could decline or fluctuate wildly in response to many factors, including the other risks discussed in this section and the following, among others: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, dispositions, charges, changes in or loss of material contracts, new customer or distribution partner relationships or other business developments by us, our customers, distribution partners or competitors; • conditions or trends in the online search services market; • changes in general conditions in the U.S. and global economies or financial markets; • announcements of technological innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • disclosures of any accounting issues, such as restatements or material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; 15 Table of Contents • equity offerings resulting in the dilution of stockholders; • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards; and • announcements or publicity relating to litigation and similar matters. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for Internet and technology company securities in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors and general economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our stock price. Our stock has been subject to such price and volume fluctuations in the recent past. Often, class action litigation has been instituted against companies after periods of volatility in the overall market and in the price of such companies’ stock. If such litigation were to be instituted against us, even if we were to prevail, it could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention and resources. Our recently launched Haggle.com business will expose us to new regulatory risks. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we launched www.haggle.com, a competitive shopping Web site. Shoppers pre-purchase packs of bids for a small fee, and the bidding itself helps cover the cost of the items up for auction. In some cases, the total amount spent on bids used during the auction exceeds the cost of the item. In others, the total amount spent on bids is less than the cost of the item. The progress and success of a new business line entails substantial uncertainty. In particular, it is unclear how current and future governmental regulation will affect the Haggle.com business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions have regulations regarding auctions and may attempt to impose those regulations on us or on Haggle.com users. We must also comply with federal and state laws and regulations governing online promotions and the taxation of Internet commerce, and addressing these regulations could require us to develop additional technology or otherwise expend significant time and expense. We understand that some academics and others have suggested that prepaid bidding fee auctions resemble games of chance and/or gambling. We believe that the results of Haggle.com auctions depend on the skill of the participants and that, because the last bidder purchases the item at the final bid price, the items in the auction are not “prizes” won by “wagering.” If lawmakers or regulators were to decide that bidding fee auctions are games of chance or constitute gambling, businesses like Haggle.com could become illegal or subject to regulation as online gambling. We would be unable to conduct our Haggle.com business in any jurisdiction that prohibits prepaid bidding fee auctions, and we may be unable to continue operating Haggle.com in other jurisdictions where regulatory compliance becomes too burdensome or expensive. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing, and corporate development personnel. Qualified personnel with experience relevant to our online search business are scarce and competition to recruit them is intense. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting our customers or expanding our business. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment and may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain and motivate employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees, all of whom are employed on an at-will basis. We have recently experienced significant changes at our executive management level and we may experience more changes in the future. Changes of management or key employees may cause disruption to our operations, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results or delay achievement of our business objectives. In addition, if we lose the services of one or more key employees and are unable to recruit and retain a suitable successor(s), we may not be able to successfully and timely manage our business or achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees. 16 Table of Contents In light of current market conditions, the value of stock options or restricted stock units granted to employees may cease to provide sufficient incentive to our employees. Like many technology companies, we use stock options, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards to recruit technology professionals and senior level employees. We now issue only restricted stock units to employees, other than executives and selected employees, because stock options are not currently seen as providing enough incentive to attract or retain employees. With respect to those employees to whom we issue options, we face a significant challenge in retaining them if the value of these stock options (together with the value of any restricted stock units) is either not substantial enough or so substantial that the employee leaves after their stock options have vested. If our stock price does not increase significantly above the exercise prices of our options, we may need to issue new options, in order to motivate and retain our executives; or if option programs become impracticable, we may need to issue other equity incentives or increase other forms of compensation. We may undertake or seek stockholder approval to undertake other equity-based programs to retain our employees, which may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any such programs we undertake, including the restricted stock unit awards, will be successful in motivating and retaining our employees. Our online search services may expose us to claims relating to how the content was obtained, distributed or displayed. Our online search services link users, either directly through our own Web sites or indirectly through the Web properties of our distribution partners, to third-party Web pages and content in response to search queries and other requests. These services could expose us to legal liability from claims relating to such third-party content and sites, the manner in which these services are distributed and displayed by us or our distribution partners, or how the content provided by our customers was obtained or provided by our customers. Such claims could include the following: infringement of patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other intellectual property or proprietary rights; violation of privacy and publicity rights; unfair competition; defamation; providing false or misleading information; obscenity; pornography; and illegal gambling. Regardless of the legal merits of any such claims, they could result in costly litigation, be time consuming to defend and divert management’s attention and resources. If there were a determination that we had violated third-party rights or applicable law, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements (if available), or be required to change our business practices. We may also have obligations to indemnify and hold harmless certain of our customers or distribution partners for damages they suffer for such violations under our contracts with them. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to such claims could require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our products and services. As a result, these claims could result in material harm to our business. In the past, there have been legal actions brought or threatened against distributors of downloadable applications deemed to be “adware” or “spyware.” Additionally, certain bills are pending and some laws have been passed in certain jurisdictions setting forth requirements that must be met before a downloadable application is downloaded to an end user’s computer. We provide downloadable applications to promote use of our search services for our owned and operated search services. Such applications may be considered adware. We also partner with some distribution partners that provide adware to their users if the partners adhere to our strict guidelines requiring them, among other things, to disclose to the user what the adware does and to obtain the consent of the user before the application is downloaded. The adware must also be easy to uninstall. We also review the application the partner proposes to use before we distribute our results to them. We also have the right to audit our partners, and if we find that they are not following our guidelines, we can terminate our agreement with them or cease providing content to that downloadable application. Some partners have not been able to meet the new guidelines imposed by us or some of our customers, and we no longer provide the applicable content or any content, as the case may be, to such partners or certain of their downloadable applications. We work closely with some of our major customers to try to identify potential distribution partners that do not meet our guidelines or are in breach of our distribution agreements and we work with our distribution partners to ensure they deliver 17 Table of Contents quality traffic. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we implement to reduce our exposure to claims that certain ways in which the content is distributed violate legal requirements will be successful. Any claims against us as a result of violations of legal requirements or contractual obligations could result in material harm to our business. Our data center systems or the systems of the third-party co-location facilities in which they are located could fail or become unavailable, which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of revenues and current and potential customers and cause us to breach agreements with our partners. We provide our own data center services from two geographically diverse third-party co-location facilities. Although the two data centers provide some redundancy, not all of our systems and operations have backup redundancy. Such systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, earthquakes or other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, break-in, or other events beyond our control. We could face significant damage as a result of these events, and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all the losses that may occur. In addition, such third-party co-location facilities and data center systems use sophisticated equipment, infrastructure and software that may contain bugs or suffer outages that could interrupt service. During the period in which service is unavailable, we will be unable or severely limited in our ability to generate revenues, and we may also be exposed to liability from those third parties to whom we provide products and services through our data centers. For these reasons, our business and financial results could be materially harmed if our systems and operations are damaged or interrupted, including if we are unable to develop, or if we or our third-party co-location facility providers are unable to successfully manage, the infrastructure necessary to meet current or future demands for reliability and scalability of our systems. If the volume of traffic to our products and services, which runs through our data centers, increases substantially, we must respond in a timely fashion by expanding our systems, which may entail upgrading our technology and network infrastructure. Our ability to support our expansion and upgrade requirements may be constrained due to our business demands or constraints of our third-party co-location facility providers. Due to the number of our customers and the products and services that we offer, we could experience periodic capacity constraints which may cause temporary unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service, and limit our ability to develop and release new or enhanced products and services. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our products and application services or we fail to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. The security measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store may be breached. Security breaches may pose risks to the uninterrupted operation of our systems and could cause us to breach agreements with our customers and distribution partners and expose us to potential investigation and penalties by authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. Our networks or those from third parties that we utilize may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers or others, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Subscribers to some of our services are required to provide information in order to utilize the service that may be considered to be personally identifiable or private information. Unauthorized access to, and abuse of, this information could subject us to litigation, penalties from regulatory agencies and other loss or liability. We take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required under existing and proposed laws to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed. We also may be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties 18 Table of Contents by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. Any such claims could result in costly litigation or liability, be time consuming to resolve and divert the attention and resources of management and other personnel. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating problems caused by breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement and improve our security measures, persons may be able to circumvent the measures that we implement in the future. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to users accessing our services, any of which could harm our business and financial results. We may be subject to liability for our use or distribution of information that we gather or receive from third parties and indemnity protections or insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. We obtain content and commerce information from third parties. When we distribute this information, we may be liable for the data that is contained in that content. This could subject us to legal liability for such things as defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy or publicity rights and product or service liability, among others. Laws or regulations of certain jurisdictions may also deem some content illegal, which may expose us to legal liability as well. We also gather personal information from users in order to provide personalized services. Gathering and processing this personal information may subject us to legal liability for, among other things, negligence, defamation, invasion of privacy or product or service liability. We are also subject to laws and regulations, both in the United States and abroad, regarding the collection and use of end user information and search related data. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be exposed to legal liability. Although the agreements by which we obtain content contain indemnity provisions, these provisions may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or the party giving the indemnity may not have the financial resources to cover the claim. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made against us. Any liability that we incur as a result of content we receive from third parties could harm our financial results. If others claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer our products, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation or stop marketing and licensing our products. Companies and individuals with rights relating to the Internet, software and application services industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Third parties have in the past and may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademarks, trade secret rights, intellectual property or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy or publicity rights. Responding to any such claims could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention, cause product or service release delays, require us to redesign our products or services or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Our technology and intellectual property may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us and we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could suffer. We do not regularly conduct patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. Patent searches may not return every issued patent that may be deemed relevant to a particular product or service. It is therefore difficult to determine, with any level of certainty, 19 Table of Contents whether a particular product or service may be construed as infringing a U.S. or foreign patent. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly immediately disclosed, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our products. In addition, other companies, as well as research and academic institutions, have conducted research for many years in the search technology field, and this research could lead to the filing of further patent applications or affect filed applications. If we were to discover that our products violated or potentially violated third-party proprietary rights, we might be required to obtain licenses that are costly or contain terms unfavorable to us, or expend substantial resources to reengineer those products so that they would not violate such third-party rights. Any reengineering effort may not be successful, and any such licenses may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any third-party infringement claims against us could result in costly litigation or liability and be time consuming to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays or require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. We rely heavily on our technology and intellectual property, but we may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, thus weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our business and financial results. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, which can be time consuming, expensive and difficult to predict. To protect our rights in our products, services, and technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions. We also rely on laws pertaining to trademarks and domain names to protect the value of our corporate brands and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products, services or technology, or obtain and use information, marks or technology that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise violate or infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that others could independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, or if others independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property, our competitive position could be weakened. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our products, services, and technology is time-consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary assets. The efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective, and unauthorized parties may obtain and use information, marks or technology that we regard as proprietary, copy aspects of our products or services, or use similar marks or domain names. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. Our intellectual property may be subject to even greater risk in foreign jurisdictions, as protection is not sought or obtained in every country in which our products, services, and technology are available and it is often more difficult and costly to enforce our rights in foreign jurisdictions. Moreover, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and intellectual property developed for us by our employees or contractors in foreign jurisdictions may not be as protected as if created in the United States. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of others’ proprietary rights which are sometimes not clear or may change. Litigation can be time consuming, expensive and difficult to predict. Delaware law and our charter documents may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. For example, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, 20 Table of Contents delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us without the consent of our board of directors, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents which could have an anti-takeover effect include: • the classification of our board of directors into three groups so that directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors; • the requirement for supermajority approval of stockholders for certain business combinations; • the ability of our board of directors to authorize the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote of stockholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend or repeal the bylaws; • limitations on the removal of directors; • limitations on stockholders’ ability to call special stockholder meetings; • advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock designed to preserve our federal net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”). On July 19, 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of August 9, 2002. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity. The issuance of the rights would make the acquisition of InfoSpace more expensive to the acquirer and could delay or discourage third parties from acquiring InfoSpace without the approval of our board of directors. If there is change in our ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to utilize our NOLs may be severely limited or potentially eliminated. As of December 31, 2009, we had NOLs of approximately $815 million that will expire over a twelve to twenty year period. If we were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (defined as a cumulative change of 50 percentage points or more in the ownership positions of certain stockholders owning 5% or more of a company’s common stock over a three-year rolling period), then under certain conditions, the amount of NOLs we could use in any one year could be limited to an amount equal to our market capitalization, net of substantial non-business assets, at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term tax exempt rate. Our certificate of incorporation imposes certain limited transfer restrictions on our common stock that we expect will assist us in preventing a change of ownership and preserving our NOLs, but there can be no assurance that these restrictions will be sufficient. If we are unable to use our NOLs before they expire, or if the use of this tax benefit is severely limited or eliminated by a change of ownership, there could be a material reduction in the amount of after-tax income and cash flow from operations, and it could have an effect on our ability to engage in certain transactions. Restructuring and streamlining our business, including implementing reductions in workforce, discretionary spending, and other expense reductions, may harm our business. We have in the past and may in the future find it advisable to take measures to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including, without limitation, reducing our workforce or discretionary spending. Effecting any restructuring or streamlining places significant strains on management, our employees, and our operational, financial, and other resources. In addition, such actions could impair our development, marketing, sales and 21 Table of Contents customer support efforts or alter our product development plans. We may also incur liability from early termination or assignment of contracts, potential failure to meet required support levels of our platforms due to loss of employees who maintain such platforms, potential litigation and other effects from such restructuring and streamlining. Such effects from restructuring and streamlining could have a negative impact on our business and financial results. If our former mobile content providers disagree with our estimate of our royalty liability due to them, it could expose us to significant liability and adversely impact our business and financial results. Under our agreements with our former mobile content providers, we calculated our royalty liability based on inputs from various sources of data and have been and continue to be subject to audits by our former mobile content providers. If our former mobile content providers disagree with the royalty amounts we calculated were due to them and we are unable to resolve those disagreements amicably, it may subject us to potential litigation and substantial costs even if it is found that the amounts we determined were due to them were accurate. If a former mobile content provider prevails in showing that the royalty amount due to it was not what was intended under our agreement with them and our estimate of the royalty liability was significantly different, it could subject us to significant liability to the affected mobile content provider and have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Two former mobile content providers initiated law suits against us due to such type of disagreements which have since been settled and did not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business or results of operations. It is possible that other former mobile content providers may disagree with the royalty amount due to them and initiate their own litigation, or may allege a disagreement as a means to obtain an audit to search for other potential claims, such as intellectual property infringement. Any claims by former mobile content providers could result in costly litigation, liability and diversion of management’s attention and resources, and any adverse outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our presence in India is subject to many risks. We operate an office in Bangalore, India in which we develop technology. The risks of doing business in India include the following, among others: • increased risks and burdens of complying with multiple, different, and often conflicting legal and regulatory standards; • limitations on the repatriation of funds and fluctuations of foreign exchange rates; • changes in and/or difficulties in complying with applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • reduced ability to enforce, and increased difficulty and cost of enforcing, our contracts, proprietary rights, and intellectual property rights; and • barriers to market, such as tariffs, adverse tax consequences, and technology export controls. If we cannot manage these risks effectively, the costs of doing business in India may be prohibitive. RISKS RELATED TO THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE Intense competition in the online search markets could prevent us from increasing distribution of our services in those markets or cause us to lose market share. Our current business model depends on distribution of our products and services into the online search market, which are extremely competitive and rapidly changing. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, more developed infrastructures, greater name recognition or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and 22 Table of Contents expand their product and service offerings more rapidly, adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer and distribution partner requirements more quickly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. Some of the companies we compete with are currently customers of ours, the loss of any of which could harm our business. Because of these competitive factors and due to our relatively small size and financial resources, we may be unable to compete successfully in the online search market and, to the extent that these competitive factors apply to other markets that we pursue, in such other markets. Additionally, our business and financial results could be adversely affected as well if our distribution partners create their own products and services that compete or replace the products and services we provide or they acquire such products and services from other sources. We continue to experience increased competition from customers seeking to enter into agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Consolidation in the industries in which we operate could lead to increased competition and loss of customers. The Internet industry (including online search) has experienced substantial consolidation. This consolidation may continue. These acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including the following: • customers could acquire or be acquired by one of our other customers, or enter into new business relationships with each other, and stop licensing content to us or gain additional negotiating leverage in their relationships with us; • our distribution partners could acquire or be acquired by one of our competitors and terminate their relationship with us; • our distribution partners could merge with each other, which could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms; and • competitors could improve their competitive positions through strategic acquisitions or new business relationships with each other. Consolidation in the Internet industry could have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. The growth and development of the Internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the Internet, in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. See “—Government Regulation” in Part I, Item 1 of this report for additional information. Application of these laws can be unclear. For example, it is unclear how many existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses (such as gambling, online auctions, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, tobacco or firearms, or insurance, securities brokerage and legal services) apply to online search services, online advertising and our business. The costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets (including limiting our ability to distribute our products and services, conduct targeted advertising, collect, use or transfer user information or comply with new data security requirements), expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. It is impossible to predict whether or when any new legislation may be adopted or existing legislation or regulatory requirements will be deemed applicable to us, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business. 23 Table of Contents Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by the FTC or others, including potential class action litigation, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy and data protection issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could materially and adversely affect our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. The FTC has recommended that search engine providers delineate paid-ranking search results from non-paid results. To the extent that we are required to modify presentation of search results as a result of specific regulations or requirements that may be issued in the future by the FTC or other state or federal agencies or legislative bodies with respect to the nature of such delineation or other aspects of advertising in connection with online search services, revenue from the affected search engines could be negatively impacted. With respect to our Haggle.com business, we must comply with regulations governing online promotions and the taxation of items sold online and the taxation of Internet commerce, and addressing these regulations may require us to develop additional technology or otherwise expend significant time and expense. We understand that some academics and others have suggested that prepaid bidding fee auctions resemble games of chance and/or gambling. We believe that the results of Haggle.com auctions depend on the skill of the participants and that, because the last bidder purchases the item at the final bid price, the items in the auction are not “prizes” won by “wagering.” If lawmakers or regulators were to decide that bidding fee auctions are games of chance or constitute gambling, businesses like Haggle.com could become illegal or subject to regulation as online gambling. In addition, complaints about online auction fraud consistently rank near the top of the list of complaints received by the FTC, and the FTC may use its authority to regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices to implement rules governing bidding fee auctions in particular. We would be unable to conduct our Haggle.com business in any jurisdiction that prohibits prepaid bidding fee auctions, and we may be unable to continue operating Haggle.com in other jurisdictions where regulatory compliance becomes too burdensome or expensive. Due to the nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate Internet transmissions, through data protection laws amongst others, or institute proceedings for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. We rely on the infrastructure of the Internet networks, over which we have no control and the failure of which could substantially undermine our operations. Our success depends, in large part, on other companies maintaining the Internet system infrastructure. In particular, we rely on other companies to maintain a reliable network backbone that provides adequate speed, data capacity and security and to develop products that enable reliable Internet access and services. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the Internet system infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it, and the Internet’s performance or reliability may suffer as a result of this continued growth. Some of the companies that we rely upon to maintain network infrastructure may lack sufficient capital to take the necessary steps to support such demands or their long-term operations. The failure of the internet infrastructure would substantially undermine our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents 