Item 1A. Risk Factors We incurred a net loss in our last two fiscal years and losses may continue in the future. We have incurred a net loss before preferred stock dividends and discount accretion of $30.3 million and $110.4 million for our fiscal years ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, was due primarily to an increase of $43.6 million in the provision for loan losses. The loss for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009, was due primarily due a pre-tax charge of $93.7 million for goodwill impairment and an increase of $26.5 million in the provision for loan losses. These losses may continue in the future and no assurance can be given as to when we may return to profitability or the level of any profitability. Our current allowance for loan losses may not be adequate and we may have to record additional loan loss provisions to cover losses on current loans, which could be material. We have established an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to provide for probable incurred losses on existing loans. However, that allowance is an estimate and is likely to be inaccurate to some degree. It is difficult to estimate the precise portion of our loans that will become delinquent and not be repaid. Over the past two years, we and our customers in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Maryland have been experiencing a significant economic slowdown and in many locations a decline in real estate values. This has resulted in substantial increases in our nonperforming assets and loan charge-offs. Our estimate of probable incurred losses on existing loans is necessarily subjective and is based on various assumptions and difficult and complex judgments and its adequacy depends on the accuracy of our assumptions and judgments and to some degree on the outcome of future events. Our current allowance for loan losses may be inadequate because: • Final losses on current loans may turn out to be higher than we would predict by using historic loss rates. • The current unfavorable economic conditions in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana, where we do the majority of our portfolio lending, may continue or worsen, reducing the ability of our consumer or business borrowers to repay their loans. • National economic conditions, including the job market, could remain weak or become weaker, negatively impacting our borrower’s ability to repay their loans. • Economic conditions and increased uncertainty in the financial markets could adversely affect our ability to accurately assess the allowance for loan losses. Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. • International political and economic conditions could have a negative impact on local, regional or national economic conditions, which could negatively impact our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. • Real estate values could decline further, which could reduce our security on mortgage loans below their principal balance. If our current allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we would have to record additional provisions for loan losses, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations, liquidity and capital levels and could decrease our ability to raise new capital or obtain new sources of funds, in each case potentially materially. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. We are unable to accurately predict future market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including: inflation; recession; changes in employment levels; changes in the money supply; and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate 28 environment may reduce the Company’s profits. We expect that the Company will continue to realize income from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, residential mortgage loan volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans; rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations while falling interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Conversely, in rising interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates will decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates will increase. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans that have adjustable rates of interest. Changes in interest rates also significantly impact the valuation of mortgage servicing rights and loans held for sale. As interest rates decline and mortgage loans prepay faster, the current market value of mortgage servicing rights will generally decline in value. Changes in mortgage prepayments, interest rates and other factors can cause the value of this asset to decrease rapidly over a short period of time. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of the Company’s loans held for sale to change. When interest rates rise, the cost of borrowing will increase. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect the Company’s net interest spread, loan volume, asset quality, levels of prepayments, value of mortgage servicing rights, loans held for sale and cash flows as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate due to the seasonal fluctuations in home buying practices. The mortgage banking industry generally experiences seasonal trends. These trends reflect the general national pattern of sales and resales of homes. Sales and resales of homes typically peak during the spring and summer seasons and decline to lower levels from mid-November through February. In addition, delinquency rates typically rise in the winter months, which results in higher servicing costs. Our quarter-to-quarter operating results will reflect these seasonal trends, thereby causing short-term fluctuations in our results. Fluctuations in our results may also cause corresponding fluctuations in the market price of our common stock. Our continued growth depends on our ability to meet minimum regulatory capital levels. Growth and shareholder returns may be adversely affected if sources of capital are not available to help us meet those capital levels. As we grow, we will have to maintain our regulatory capital levels at or above the minimum levels required by our regulators. If earnings do not meet our current estimates, if we incur unanticipated losses or expenses or if we grow faster than expected, we may need to obtain additional capital sooner than expected, which may take the form of secured or unsecured borrowing, additional issuances of debt, equity-related securities or equity securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to access sufficient capital in the future on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to access sufficient capital, we may be required to reduce our level of assets or make other operational changes or reduce our rate of growth in order to maintain regulatory capital compliance. Under those circumstances, our future results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additional issuances of equity or equity-related securities could have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. We are subject to uncertainties, and potential additional regulatory or compliance burdens, as a result of our participation in the CPP. We accepted an investment of $73 million from the Treasury under the CPP. The Securities Purchase Agreement that we (and all other participating institutions) entered into with the Treasury provides that Treasury may unilaterally amend the agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal statutes after the investment was made. As a result of this provision, the Treasury and Congress may impose additional requirements or restrictions on us, including reporting, compliance, corporate governance, executive or employee compensation, dividend payments, stock repurchases, lending or other business practices, capital requirements or other matters. We may be required to expend additional resources in order to comply with these requirements. Such additional requirements could impair our ability to compete with institutions that are not subject to the restrictions because they did not accept an investment from the 29 Treasury. In addition, we may be subject to certain restrictions on executive and employee compensation that would limit the amount and the tax deductibility of compensation we pay to our executive officers. To the extent that additional restrictions or limitations on employee compensation are imposed, such as those contained in ARRA and the regulations issued in June 2009, we may be less competitive in attracting and retaining successful incentive compensation based lenders, customer relations personnel and senior executive officers. Additionally, the ability of Congress to utilize the amendment provisions to effect political or public relations goals could result in our being subjected to additional burdens as a result of public perceptions of issues relating to the largest banks, and which are not applicable to community oriented institutions such as us. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering products and services similar to those offered by us, which could result in our not being able to grow our loan and deposit businesses. We conduct our business operations primarily in Northeastern Ohio and Southeastern Michigan. We also maintain loan production offices in Ohio, Michigan, Indiana and Maryland. Increased competition within these markets may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of banking products and services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources and access to capital may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations, mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns and adjust pricing to increase market share. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than us, may be able to offer the same products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to increase our loan originations and deposits and we would be materially and adversely affected. We rely on external financing to fund our operations and the failure to obtain such financing on favorable terms, or at all, in the future could materially and adversely impact our growth strategy and prospects. We rely on deposits, advances from the FHLB of Cincinnati, and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our current capital needs, we may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to implement our growth strategy. The sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future may be dilutive to our shareholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into various affirmative and negative covenants, including limitations on operational activities and financing alternatives. Future financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to us or, if available, could be on terms unfavorable to us and may require OTS approval. If financing sources are unavailable or are not available on favorable terms or we are unable to obtain OTS approval, our growth strategy and future prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. We may have difficulty managing our growth, which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. In past years, we have incurred substantial expenses to build our management team and personnel, develop our delivery systems and establish our infrastructure to support our future growth. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not be able to implement improvements in our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner. Thus, our growth strategy could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. 30 In addition, we intend to grow our deposits and expand our retail banking franchise. Further expansion will require additional capital expenditures and we may not be successful in expanding our franchise or in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. Furthermore, various factors such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may impede or limit our growth. If we are unable to expand our business as anticipated, we may be unable to realize any benefit from the investments made to support future growth. Alternatively, if we are unable to manage future expansion in our operations, we may have to incur additional expenditures beyond current projections to support such growth. We are subject to extensive regulation that could materially and adversely affect the Company. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, could materially and adversely affect us. Financial regulatory reform legislation may have a significant effect on our operations, including increased compliance costs, increased capital requirements and a new banking regulator. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law, which significantly changes the regulation of financial institutions and the financial services industry. Recent enactment of broad financial reform legislation provides for new regulations affecting many aspects of our operations and, depending on the final regulations promulgated under this new law, may adversely impact our profitability and operations. The U.S. Congress approved the Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law by President Obama on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act will have a broad impact on the financial services industry, including significant regulatory and compliance changes, such as: (i) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (ii) enhanced lending limits strengthening the existing limits on a depository institution’s credit exposure to one borrower; (iii) increased capital and liquidity requirements; (iv) increased regulatory examination fees; (v) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; and (vi) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthening safety and soundness for, the financial services sector. Among the Dodd-Frank Act’s significant regulatory reforms is the creation a new financial consumer protection agency, known as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. The potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: • a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; • increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of savings institutions and thrift holding companies and higher deposit insurance premiums; and • the limitation on our ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for the U.S. Congress, which may result in additional legislative or regulatory action. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations promulgated by federal agencies, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of its business practices or otherwise adversely affect our business. 31 If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to May 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to May 15, 2014, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity and capital, as well as net income available to common shareholders. The Series A Preferred Stock reduces net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of common stock and the warrant issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. While the additional capital raised through participation in the CPP provided funding for our business, it has increased the number of diluted outstanding shares of common stock and carries a preferred dividend. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A Preferred Stock reduce the net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the warrant issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury of the Series A Preferred Stock is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the warrant represented approximately 21.6% of total shares of common stock outstanding as of June 30, 2010. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon any exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this restriction. We rely heavily on our management team and the unexpected loss of certain key officers could materially and adversely affect the Company. Our future success and growth is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executive officers. Attracting and retaining high quality personnel and appropriate succession planning will continue to be critical to the successful implementation of our business strategies. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. If we experience departures of key personnel, until suitable replacements could be identified and hired, if at all, we could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to default and other risks in connection with our mortgage loan originations. From the time that we fund the mortgage loans we originate to the time we sell them, we are generally at risk for any mortgage loan defaults. We are also at risk if we are unable to sell the loan, either because a purchaser cannot be found or because we could not obtain an acceptable bid price for the loan. This risk is magnified in periods of market downturn. Once we sell the mortgage loans, the risk of loss from mortgage loan defaults and foreclosures passes to the purchaser or insurer of the mortgage loans. However, in the ordinary course of business, we make representations and warranties to the purchasers and insurers of mortgage loans relating to the validity of such loans. If there is a breach of any of these representations or warranties, we may be required to repurchase the mortgage loan and bear any subsequent loss on the mortgage loan. In addition, we incur higher liquidity risk with respect to the nonconforming mortgage loans originated by us because of the lack of a functioning market in which to sell them. Because of stresses on the Deposit Insurance Fund, the FDIC has recently imposed, and could impose in the future, additional assessments on the banking industry. The current financial crisis has caused the Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC to fall below required minimum levels. Because the FDIC replenishes the Deposit Insurance Fund through assessments on the banking industry, we anticipate that the FDIC will likely maintain relatively high deposit insurance premiums for the foreseeable future. The FDIC has recently imposed a special deposit insurance assessment on the banking industry, and there can be no assurance that it will not do so again. It has also required banking organizations to “pre-pay” deposit insurance premiums in order to replenish the liquid assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund, and may impose similar requirements in the future. High insurance premiums, special assessments and pre-payments would adversely affect our results. 32 The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for you to resell shares of common stock at the times or prices you find attractive. The market price of our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, in addition to those described in “Cautionary Statement About Forward Looking Statements”: • actual or anticipated quarterly or annual fluctuations in our operating results, cash flows and financial condition; • changes in earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to us or other financial institutions; • speculation in the press or investment community generally or relating to our reputation or the financial services industry; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, restructurings, dispositions or financings; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • future issuances or re-sales of our equity or equity-related securities, or the perception that they may occur; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings, or litigation or accounting matters that involve or affect us; • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry. In addition, in recent years, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. This is due, in part, to investors’ shifting perceptions of the effect of changes and potential changes in the economy on various industry sectors. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including for reasons unrelated to their performance or prospects. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, notwithstanding our actual or anticipated operating results, cash flows and financial condition. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate due to many factors, including prevailing interest rates, other economic conditions, our operating performance and investor perceptions of the outlook for us specifically and the banking industry in general. There can be no assurance about the level of the market price of our common stock in the future or that you will be able to resell your shares at times or at prices you find attractive. We currently have limitations on dividends on the common stock and repurchasing shares of our common stock. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. On March 23, 2009, in connection with our response to the annual examination by the OTS, our board of directors agreed to certain restrictions with regard to our activities as outlined in an agreement with the OTS. Specifically, under the terms of the agreement, we are required to obtain the written consent of the OTS prior to the declaring or paying of any dividends or making any other capital distribution, or repurchasing or redeeming any capital stock in addition to certain other restrictions. These restrictions will remain in effect until such time as the OTS modifies, terminates, or otherwise suspends the restrictions. In addition, our ability to declare or pay dividends on our common stock is restricted as described below. We have no current plans to resume dividend payments on our common stock. First Place Financial Corp. is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Bank normally provide a significant source of capital for First Place 33 Financial Corp. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes, regulations and agreements. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition, liquidity and results of operations of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS, as the Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to First Place Financial Corp. for an extended period of time, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could materially and adversely affect us. Until the earlier of March 13, 2012, and the date on which the Treasury no longer holds any shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, we cannot repurchase or redeem or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or pay quarterly dividends in excess of $0.085 per share per quarter without the approval of the Treasury. Our ability to declare or pay dividends or distributions on, or repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration, shares of common stock is also subject to restrictions in the event that we fail to declare and pay full dividends (or declare and set aside a sum sufficient for payment thereof) on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is also dependent on the performance of the Bank and on the Bank’s capital requirements. We may issue equity or equity-related securities or engage in other transactions which dilute our book value per share or are senior to our common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors may determine from time to time that we need to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares of our common stock or other equity-related securities. Except as described under “Underwriting,” we are not restricted from issuing shares of common stock or securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, shares of common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings, or the prices at which such offerings may be effected. Such offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing common shareholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. New investors also may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to, and that adversely affect, our then current common shareholders. Furthermore, if we raise additional capital by incurring debt or issuing preferred stock, upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, and lenders with respect to other borrowings, will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Our common stock is also effectively subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and preferred equity of our subsidiaries. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 