ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s Common Stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in the Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. To achieve its past levels of growth, the Company has initiated internal growth programs and completed a number of acquisitions. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. In addition, Prosperity may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. If the Company is unable to manage its growth effectively, its operations could be negatively affected. Companies that experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • finding suitable markets for expansion; • finding suitable candidates for acquisition; • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage its growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within its organization, the Company must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of its business. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement its business strategy and successfully conduct its operations. 15 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate its acquired businesses, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and the Company may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that the Company is unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of its growth strategy may be lost. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company’s organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires and eliminate redundancies. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company’s management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate the entities it acquires into its existing operations may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect its business and earnings. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on loans, investments and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve or otherwise, can have a significant effect on the Company’s net interest income. The Company’s assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Houston, Dallas, Austin, Corpus Christi and surrounding areas and in the south and southeast areas of Texas. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. The Company may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of 16 Table of Contents the Company’s loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of its commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of its loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of its loan portfolio through its internal loan review process and other relevant factors. The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover credit losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect, its current allowance may not be sufficient and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer financial resources to weather a downturn in the economy. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer financial resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities. If general economic conditions negatively impact the southeast Texas area or the other markets in which the Company operates, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Such interruptions may occur and may not be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The business of the Company is dependent on technology and its inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers which may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect its financial performance, and the Company may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, its subsidiary bank, and their respective operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of the Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Company. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors, of each class having staggered, three year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president and chief executive officer, a majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company’s preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $75.8 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to the Company’s subsidiary trusts. The subsidiary trusts purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) 18 Table of Contents before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. The Company had the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company’s Common Stock. Risks Related to the Company’s Acquisition of SNB Bancshares, Inc. There may be undiscovered risks or losses associated with the SNB Bancshares acquisition. As a result of the pending acquisition of SNB Bancshares, Inc., the Company will acquire all of the assets and liabilities of SNB Bancshares, including, without limitation, its loan portfolio. The Company has not previously owned or operated SNB Bancshares and it does not have any detailed working experience related to its business and operations. There may be instances when the Company, under its normal operating procedures, may find after the acquisition, that there may be additional losses or undisclosed liabilities with respect to the assets and liabilities of SNB Bancshares, and, with respect to its loan portfolio, that the ability of a borrower to repay a loan may have become impaired, the quality of the value of the collateral securing a loan may fall below the Company’s standards or the allowance for credit losses may not be adequate. One or more of these factors might cause the Company to have additional losses or liabilities, additional loan charge-offs or increases in allowances for credit losses, which could have a negative impact upon its future income. The Company may not be able to successfully consummate the acquisition of SNB Bancshares. Even if the acquisition is consummated, the Company may not be able to integrate SNB Bancshares’ operations with its business efficiently. While the Company has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire all of the capital stock of SNB Bancshares, there are a number of conditions to completing the acquisition, and there can be no assurance that those conditions will be satisfied. Even if the acquisition is consummated, it will create risks associated with the integration of SNB Bancshares’ operations with the Company’s, including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. The Company may not realize the benefits from the SNB Bancshares acquisition that it anticipates, or it may not be able to integrate SNB Bancshares’ operations successfully. If the Company fails to integrate the operations of SNB Bancshares efficiently, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operation and future prospects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 