Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s Common Stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in its Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business The current economic environment poses significant challenges for the Company and could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in its markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market that have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. The Company retains direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and is affected by these events. The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its loan portfolio is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. A prolonged national economic recession or further deterioration in these conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for loan losses and result in the following consequences: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures; • decreases in demand for the Company’s products and services, which could adversely affect its liquidity position; and • decreases in the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult economic conditions on the Company, its customers and the other financial institutions in its market. As a result, the Company may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse affect on the Company’s borrowers or its customers, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 The Company's dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects it to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates and legislation that could result in significant additional costs and capital requirements that could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 91.0% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A continued weakening of the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by the Company. As real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required make provisions for additional loan losses, which could adversely affect its financial con dition and results of operations. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon disposal of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, the Company’s profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $35.3 million or 3.08% of the Company’s gross loan portfolio was in real estate construction loans. Of this amount, $11.0 million were made to finance residential construction projects, of which 85.4% were located in Texas, and 14.6% were located in California. Further, $24.3 million of real estate construction loans were made to finance commercial construction, with 38.6% of these loans made to finance construction projects located in Texas and 61.4% of those loans made to finance construction projects located in California. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. The current slowdown in the sales of residential properties, and the related reduction in prices, has affected construction lending activities in the Company’s market area, and the Company expects that these conditions will have the effect of extending the durations of its construction loans and increasing the risk of possible loss on these loans. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The federal banking agencies have issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial real estate loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires financial institutions that exceed certain levels of commercial real estate lending compared with their total capital to maintain heightened risk management practices that address the following key elements: including board and management oversight and strategic planning, portfolio management, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing, and maintenance of increased capital levels as needed to support the level of commercial real estate lending. If there is any deterioration in the Company’s commercial mortgage or construction portfolios or if its regulators conclude that the Company h as not implemented appropriate risk management practices, it could adversely affect the Company’s business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. The Company's commercial mortgage loans and commercial and industrial loans expose it to increased credit risks. The Company's lending efforts are primarily focused on commercial and industrial loans and commercial mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2010, commercial and industrial loans and commercial mortgage loans totaled $1.07 billion. In general, commercial mortgage loans and commercial and industrial loans yield higher returns and often generate a deposit relationship, but also pose greater credit risks than do owner-occupied residential real estate loans. As the Company's various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans will also increase. The Company makes both secured and a limited amount of unsecured commercial loans. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. Secured commercial loans are generally collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Further, commercial loans generally will be serviced primarily from the operation of the business, which may not be successful, and commercial mortgage loans generally will be serviced from income on the properties securing the loans. 19 The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than i ts interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, this “gap” will negatively impact the Company’s earnings. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and the Company’s ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to an increase in prepayments on the Company’s loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates affect the Company’s net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, market value of loans and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. Market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply and international disorder, and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. In view of the low interest rates on savings, loans and investments that currently prevail, it is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, and the Company cannot always accurately predict the nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect its business. Although the Company’s asset-liability management strategy is designed to control its risk from changes in the general level of market interest rates, it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse affect on the Company’s earnings and capital levels. If the goodwill that the Company recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s profitability. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets the Company acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. Examples of those events or circumstances include the following: • significant decline in the Company’s stock price; • significant reductions in profitability; • significant adverse change in business climate; • significant changes in credit quality; • significant unanticipated loss of customers; • unanticipated loss of key personnel; or • significant loss of deposits or loans. The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in the Company’s results of operations in the periods in which they become known. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $2.5 million as a component of noninterest expense. Given the continued weakness and adverse economic conditions with respect to the Compan y’s California markets, the Company reviewed the carrying value of its goodwill and recorded a non-cash impairment charge of $2.0 million during the first quarter of 2010. At December 31, 2010, the Company’s goodwill after the impairment was $17.3 million. If the weakness and adverse economic conditions with respect to the Company’s California markets worsen or fail to improve or if the stock price of the Company’s common stock declines significantly from the price at December 31, 2010, the Company may be required to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s equity and financial condition. 20 The Company has a high level of nonperforming assets, which take significant time to resolve, have required it to significantly increase the provision for loan losses and are likely to continue to materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company experienced a substantial increase in nonperforming assets from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009, resulting in increases in its provisions for loan losses. At December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010 total nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans and ORE) were $57.6 million, $102.9 million and $92.8 million, or 3.65%, 6.47% and 5.95% of total assets, respectively. Nonperforming assets adversely affect the Company’s net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, the Company may continue to incur losses relating to an increase in nonperforming assets. The Company does not record interest income on nonaccrual loans or ORE, thereby adversely affecting its net interest income, and increasing its loan administration costs. When the Company takes collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, it is required to mark the related loan to the then fair value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. Further, an increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases the Company’s regulatory risk profile. While the Company reduces problem assets through workouts, restructurings, loan sales and otherwise, decreases in the value of t he underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond the Company’s control, could adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and the Board of Directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that the Company will not experience future increases in nonperforming assets. MetroBank’s failure to comply with the provisions of the Agreement with the OCC and Metro United’s failure to comply with the provisions of the Order with the FDIC and CDFI could subject the Banks to more severe regulatory enforcement actions. On August 10, 2009, MetroBank entered into the Agreement with the OCC, which was based on the findings of the OCC during the annual on-site examination of MetroBank performed in the first quarter of 2009. Pursuant to the Agreement, MetroBank took certain actions to address various issues that have impacted MetroBank’s asset quality. The Agreement provides for, among other things, the development and implementation of written programs to reduce MetroBank’s credit risks, monitor and reduce the level of criticized assets and manage commercial real estate loan concentrations in light of current adverse commercial real estate market conditions generally and in its market areas. On July 22, 2010, Metro United consented to the Order by the FDIC and CDFI, which was based on the findings during the annual on-site examination of Metro United performed in the first quarter of 2010. The Order represents the agreements between Metro United, the FDIC and the CDFI as to areas of Metro United's operations that warrant improvement and requires the submission of plans for making those improvements. The Order imposes no fines or penalties on Metro United. The Order requires certain corrective steps, imposes limits on activities (such as payment of dividends), prescribes regulatory parameters (such as asset management) and requires the adoption of new or revised policies, procedures and controls on Metro United's operations. Management and the Boards of Directors of the Company, MetroBank and Metro United have taken steps to address the findings of the respective exams and are working with the OCC to comply with the requirements of the Agreement and the FDIC and CDFI to improve the condition of Metro United and comply with the requirements of the Order. Failure by MetroBank and Metro United to meet the requirements and conditions imposed by the Agreement and Order, respectively, could result in more severe regulatory enforcement actions such as capital directives to raise additional capital, civil money penalties, cease and desist or removal orders, injunctions, and public disclosure of such actions against MetroBank and Metro United. Any such failure and resulting regulatory action could have a material adverse effec t on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company, MetroBank and Metro United. Compliance with the Agreement and Order will require significant time and attention from the management teams of the Company, MetroBank and Metro United, which may increase the Company’s operating cost, impede the efficiency of the Company’s internal business processes and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations in the near-term. On August 10, 2009, MetroBank entered into the Agreement with the OCC and on July 22, 2010, Metro United entered into the Stipulation consenting to the issuance of the Order by the FDIC and CDFI. Both the Agreement, with respect to MetroBank, and the Order, with respect to Metro United, require the review, revision and adherence to current policies and procedures, and in certain instances adoption of new policies and procedures, including those associated with credit concentration management, the allowance for loan losses, liquidity management and criticized assets. While the Company intends to take all such actions as may be necessary to enable the Banks to comply with the requirements of the Agreement and the Order, compliance with such requirements could divert management’s attention from other impor tant issues. If the Company is unable to manage compliance with the Agreement and Order effectively or is unable to comply fully with the provisions of the Agreement and Order, the Company’s operating costs, efficiency, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 21 The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the Company’s loan portfolio, including concentrations of credit, common characteristics of known problem loans, potential problem loans, and other loans that exhibit weaknesses or deterioration, the general economic environment in the Company’s markets as well as the national economy, particularly the real estate markets, changes i n value of the collateral securing loans, results of portfolio stress tests, and changes in lending processes, procedures and personnel and other relevant factors. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or if it experiences significant loan losses, its current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. A material addition to the allowance could cause a material decrease in net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. Future losses or insufficient core earnings may result in the Company's inability to fully realize its net deferred tax asset, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's earnings and capital. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had a net deferred tax asset of $17.8 million. The Company regularly assesses the realization of its deferred tax asset and is required to record a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the Company will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax asset. The Company's assessment is primarily dependent on historical taxable income and projections of future taxable income, which are directly related to the Company's core earnings (earnings that exclude non-recurring income items) capacity and its prospects to generate core earnings in the future. Projections of core earnings and taxable income require the Company to apply significant judgment and are inherently speculative because they require estimates that cannot be made with cer tainty. The Company did not establish a valuation allowance against the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2010 as management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will have sufficient future earnings to utilize this asset to offset future income tax liabilities. If the Company were to determine at some point in the future that it will not achieve sufficient future taxable income to realize its net deferred tax asset, the Company would be required under generally accepted accounting principles to establish a full or partial valuation allowance. If the Company determines that a valuation allowance i s necessary, the Company would incur a charge to operations that could have a material adverse effect on its earnings and capital. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on its liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities or on terms which are acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which its loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against it. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a disru ption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 22 The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of its control, and its financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit its access to some of its customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. The Company cannot assure you that such capital will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit its access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of investors, depositors of the Banks or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a materially adverse effect on the Company’s businesses, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas in Texas, and in the greater San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco metropolitan areas in California. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company’s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could b e adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company’s expansion, growth and profitability. Recently, economic conditions in California and, to a lesser extent, Texas have declined and if either of these regions experiences a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company would likely experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Company lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Company, and such impairment could materially harm its operating results. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. The Company primarily makes secured commercial and industrial loans. Secured commercial loans may be collateralized by accounts receivable, inventory, equipment or other assets owned by the borrower and include a personal guaranty of the business owner. Compared to real estate, that type of collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company’s market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. 23 The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC deposit insurance assessments in the future, which could adversely affect its earnings. Recent insured depository institution failures, as well as deterioration in banking and economic conditions generally, have significantly increased the loss provisions of the FDIC, resulting in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the FDIC to historical lows. The FDIC expects a higher rate of insured depository institution failures in the next few years compared to recent years; thus, the reserve ratio may continue to decline. In addition, the deposit insurance limit on FDIC deposit insurance coverage generally has increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2013. These developments resulted in increased FDIC assessments in 2009 and 2010 and may result in increased assessments in the future. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC approved a final rule that amends its existing DIF restoration plan and implements certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Effective April 1, 2011 the assessment base will be determined using average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity rather than the current assessment base of adjusted domestic deposits. The new assessment rates, calculated on the revised assessment base, will generally range from 2.5 to 9 basis points for Risk Category I institutions, 9 to 24 basis points for Risk Category II institutions, 18 to 33 basis points for Risk Category III institutions, and 30 to 45 basis points for Risk Category IV institutions. The new assessment rates will be calculated for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011 and reflected in invoices fo r assessments due September 30, 2011. The final rule provides the FDIC’s board with the flexibility to adopt actual rates that are higher or lower than the total base assessment rates adopted on February 7, 2011 without notice and comment, if certain conditions are met. An increase in the assessment rates could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company’s FDIC insurance related costs were $3.3 million compared with $3.9 million and $617,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry, including the Capital Purchase Program, have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the U.S. Treasury’s CPP announced in the fall of 2008, the U.S. Treasury and the FDIC have taken further steps to support and regulate the financial services industry, that include enhancing the liquidity support available to financial institutions, temporarily guaranteeing money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and increasing insurance on bank deposits. The U.S. Congress, through the EESA, has imposed a number of restrictions and limitations on the operations of financial services firms participating in the federal programs, such as the CPP. Accordingly, the Company and other financial institutions who participate in such programs are subject to additional restrictions, oversight, reporting obligations and costs, each of which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s bu siness, financial condition and results of operations. As a participant in the CPP, the Company is subject to the executive compensation limitations under Section 111 of EESA. The EESA contains restrictions on bonus and other incentive compensation payable to certain of the Company’s most highly compensated employees. Such restrictions and standards may impact the Company’s ability to retain key officers and employees and to compete with financial institutions that are not subject to the same limitations as the Company. The unexpected loss of services of any of these key employees could adversely impact the Company’s business. The Company may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the credit or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Company’ ;s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The recent repeal of federal prohibitions on payment of interest on demand deposits could increase the Company's interest expense. All federal prohibitions on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts were repealed as part of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. The Company does not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. The Company's interest expense will increase and its net interest margin will decrease if it begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 The Company could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on its foreclosed real estate assets. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be discovered on the properties that secure the Company’s loans. If the Company acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, it could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Although the Company has policies and procedures that require it to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. The Company has in the past, and may in the future consider acquisition opportunities with other financial institutions. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, management, products and services of the target company; • Potential disruption to the Company’s business; • Potential diversion of the Company management’s time and attention; • Possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate any entity it may acquire and realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business. The Company is subject to losses resulting from fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, correspondents or other third parties. The Company relies heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in credit applications, property appraisals, title information, equipment pricing and valuation and employment and income documentation, in deciding which loans the Company will originate, as well as the terms of those loans. If any of the information upon which the Company relies is misrepresented, either fraudulently or inadvertently, and the misrepresentation is not detected prior to asset funding, the value of the asset may be significantly lower than expected, or the Company may fund a loan that it would not have funded or on terms it would not have extended. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the applicant or another third party, the Company generally bears the risk of loss associated with the misreprese ntation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsellable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. The sources of the misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to recover any of the monetary losses the Company may suffer. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of its communications or information systems, the Company cannot assure that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Co mpany’s results of operations and financial condition. 25 The business of the Company is dependent on technology and its inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect its financial performance, and the Company may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Company and the Banks are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. These regulations affect the Company's lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Any change in applicable regulations or federal legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, the Banks and their respective operations. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, instituted major changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regimes in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services sector. Additional legislation and regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could significantly affect the Company's powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of the Banks in substantial and unpredictable ways. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and powe r could have a negative impact on the Company. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Company's ability to conduct business. In addition, such events could affect the stability of the Company's deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered three year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president and chief executive officer, the majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. 26 The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the Board of Directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may determine. The issuance of the Company preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. The trading volume in the Company Common Stock has been low. Although the Company Common Stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in the Company Common Stock has been limited and is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market place of willing buyers and sellers of the Company Common Stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the limited trading volume of the Company Common Stock, significant sales of its Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2010, the Company’s executive officers and directors owned approximately 19.9% of the Common Stock. The significant amount of Common Stock owned by the Company’s executive officers and directors may adversely affect the development of a more active trading market. The Company has currently suspended the payment of dividends on its Common Stock. In addition, the Company’s future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization's expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company's ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. In April 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors elected to suspend its common stock dividend indefinitely and to defer the dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock for the second quarter of 2010. The Board of Directors of the Company elected to resume payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for the third and fourth quarter of 2010 but as of December 31, 2010, has continued to defer the second quarter 2010 dividend. The payment of any future dividends by the Company will be made at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors and will be subject to any regulatory restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. Additionally, future determination of dividends will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to current and prospective earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, and other factors that the Board of Directors and regulators may deem relevant to the Company and its subsidiary banks. The Company’s principal source of funds to pay dividends on its Common Stock will be cash dividends that it receives from the Banks. The payment of dividends by the Banks to the Company is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal banking laws, regulations and authorities. The federal banking statutes prohibit federally insured banks from making any capital distributions (including a dividend payment) if, after making the distribution, the institution would be “under capitalized” as defined by statute. In addition, the relevant federal regulatory agencies have authority to prohibit an insured bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, as determined by the agency, in conducting an activity. The payment of dividends could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice, dep ending on the financial condition of the Banks. Regulatory authorities could impose administratively stricter limitations on the ability of the Banks to pay dividends to the Company if such limits were deemed appropriate to preserve certain capital adequacy requirements. Under the terms of the Order, Metro United cannot declare or pay cash dividends without approval of the FDIC and CDFI. Further, under applicable restrictions as of December 31, 2010, no dividends could be paid by MetroBank and Metro United to the Company without prior regulatory approval. Future dividend payments and Common Stock repurchases are restricted by the terms of the U.S. Treasury’s equity investment in the Company. Under the terms of the CPP, for so long as any preferred stock issued under the CPP remains outstanding, the Company is prohibited from increasing dividends on its Common Stock, and from making certain repurchases of equity securities, including its Common Stock, without the U.S. Treasury’s consent until the third anniversary of the U.S. Treasury’s investment or until the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the preferred stock it purchased under the CPP to third parties. Further, as long as the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including the Common Stock, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. 27 The holders of the Company’s Series A Preferred Stock may have the right to appoint two directors to the Company’s Board of Directors. If the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting the Company’s Board of Directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the Company’s Board of Directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called by the Company’s Board of Directors for the purpose of electing the preferred stock directors prior to the next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been declared and paid. The Company’s Board of Directors elected to defer the dividend on the Series A Prefer red Stock for the second quarter of 2010, but resumed payment of such dividend for the third and fourth quarters of 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Company has one outstanding deferred dividend payment. Any further dividend payments will be subject to applicable regulatory restrictions and approvals imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on the Company. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $36.1 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding which were issued to the Company’s subsidiary trust, MCBI Statutory Trust I. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trus t preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company’s Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. The Company’s ability to pay the future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Banks and dividends from the Banks to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. Interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures underlying the trust preferred securities are classified as a “dividend” by the Federal Reserve supervisory policies and therefore will be subject to applicable restrictions and approvals imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on the Company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 