Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Company’s common stock (“Common Stock”) involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in its Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company are unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings are significantly dependent on its net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The Company expects that it will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of its assets and liabilities, meaning that either its interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than its interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to the Company’s position, this “gap” will negatively impact the Company’s earnings. An increase in the general level of interest rates may also, among other things, reduce the demand for loans and the Company’s ability to originate loans. Conversely, a decrease in the general level of interest rates, among other things, may lead to an increase in prepayments on the Company’s loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios and increased competition for deposits. Accordingly, changes in the general level of market interest rates affect the Company’s net yield on interest-earning assets, loan origination volume, market value of loans and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. Market interest rates are affected by many factors outside of the Company’s control, including governmental monetary policies, inflation, recession, changes in unemployment, the money supply and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. In view of the low interest rates on savings, loans and investments that currently prevail, it is quite possible that significant changes in interest rates may take place in the future, and the Company cannot always accurately predict the nature or magnitude of such changes or how such changes may affect its business. Although the Company’s asset-liability management strategy is designed to control its risk from changes in the general level of market interest rates, it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse affect on the Company’s earnings and capital levels. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A large percentage of the Company’s loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect its profitability. Approximately 87.3% of the Company’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by the Company. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase its allowance for loan losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon disposal of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, the Company’s profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2007, approximately $139.2 million or 11.5% of the Company’s gross loan portfolio was in real estate construction loans. Of this amount, $59.0 million were made to finance residential construction projects, of which 63.4% were located in Texas, and 36.6% were located in California. Further, $80.2 million of real estate construction loans were made to finance commercial construction, with 85.2% of these loans made to finance construction projects located in Texas and 14.8% of those loans made to finance construction projects located in California. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In December 2006, banking regulators issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial and real estate construction loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires institutions that exceed certain levels of real estate lending to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations if they do not have appropriate risk management policies and practices in place. If there is any deterioration in the Company’s commercial real estate portfolio or its regulators conclude that it has not implemented appropriate risk management policies and practices, it could adversely affect the Company’s business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. The Company could be subject to environmental risks and associated costs on its foreclosed real estate assets. A significant portion of the Company’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. There is a risk that hazardous or toxic waste could be discovered on the properties that secure the Company’s loans. If the Company acquires such properties as a result of foreclosure, it could be held responsible for the cost of cleaning up or removing this waste, and this cost could exceed the value of the underlying properties and adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Although the Company has policies and procedures that require it to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Company’s allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the Company’s loan portfolio based on its review and analysis of the portfolio, including the diversification of its loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming loans and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of its loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of its loan portfolio through its internal loan review process and other relevant factors. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover loan losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional loan losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or if it experiences significant loan losses, its current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. A material addition to the allowance could cause a material decrease in net income. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for loan losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for loan losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material negative effect on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the geographic markets in which it operates. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas in Texas, and in the greater San Diego, Los Angeles, and San Francisco metropolitan areas in California. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company’s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company’s expansion, growth and profitability. If the Company’s market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company would likely experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and negatively affect the Company‘s financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. The Company’s small to medium-sized business target market may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Company, and such impairment could materially harm our operating results. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses generally have fewer resources in terms of capital or borrowing capacity than larger entities, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company’s market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be negatively affected. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. The Company seeks merger or acquisition partners that are culturally similar and have experienced management and possess either significant market presence or have potential for improved profitability through financial management, economies of scale or expanded services. Acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • Potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • Exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • Difficulty and expense of integrating the operations, management, products and services of the target company; • Potential disruption to the Company’s business; • Potential diversion of the Company management’s time and attention; • The possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; and • Difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. From time to time, the Company evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate any entity it may acquire and realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from such acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and business. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or security breach of its communications or information systems, the Company cannot assure that such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The business of the Company is dependent on technology and its inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success will depend in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively implement new technology driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision that could adversely affect its financial performance, and the Company may be adversely affected by changes in federal and local laws and regulations. The Company is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, its subsidiary banks, and their respective operations. Additional legislation and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of MetroBank or Metro United, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Company. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of The Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors, of each class having staggered, three year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president and chief executive officer, the majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions, financings and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The trading volume in the Company Common Stock has been low. Although the Company common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market, the trading volume in the Company common stock has been limited and is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market place of willing buyers and sellers of the Company common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the limited trading volume of the Company Common Stock, significant sales of its Common Stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause the Company’s stock price to fall. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s executive officers and directors owned approximately 27.1% of the Common Stock. The significant amount of Common Stock owned by the Company’s executive officers and directors may adversely affect the development of a more active trading market. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2007, the Company had $36.1 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to the Company’s subsidiary trust, MCBI Statutory Trust I. The Trust purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of the Trust’s capital securities to third party investors and common securities to the Company. Payments of the principal and interest on the capital securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by the Trust, provided the Trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. The Company has the right to defer distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related capital securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid to holders of the Company’s Common Stock. The Company’s ability to pay the future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Banks and dividends from the Banks to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 