ITEM 1A. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our strategic direction is changing, including through the completed sales of our directory and mobile services businesses, and our focus on online search may not be successful. We have recently completed a major restructuring of our business. On October 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our directory business to Idearc Inc. and, on December 28, 2007, we completed the sale of our mobile services business to Motricity, Inc. This significantly reduced the size of our business and our revenues, and our business model now centers on our online search products and services. There can be no assurance that our focus on online search will produce acceptable results. If we are not successful in implementing or operating under this new business model, our stock price will suffer. Moreover, any other future changes to our business may not prove successful in the short or long term due to a variety of factors, including competition, consumer adoption and demand for our products and services, and other factors described in this section, and may have a material negative impact on our financial results. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future find it advisable to streamline operations and reduce expenses, including, without limitation, such measures as reductions in the workforce, discretionary spending, and/or capital expenditures, as well as other steps to reduce expenses. We have streamlined operations and reduced expenses as a result of the sale of our directory and mobile services businesses, including reductions in the workforce. Effecting any restructuring or streamlining places significant strains on management, our employees, and our operational, financial, and other resources. In addition, such actions could impair our development, marketing, sales and customer support efforts or alter our product development plans. We may also incur liability from early termination or assignment of contracts, potential failure to meet required support levels of our platforms due to loss of employees who maintain such platforms, potential litigation and other effects from such restructuring and streamlining. Such effects from restructuring and streamlining could have a negative impact on our financial results. A substantial portion of our revenues is dependent on our relationships with a small number of distribution partners who distribute our online search products and services, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We rely on our relationships with online search distribution partners, including internet service providers, Web portals and software application providers, for distribution of our online search products and services. We generated approximately 43% of our online search revenues through relationships with our top ten distribution partners for the year ended December 31, 2007. We cannot assure you that these relationships will continue or will result in benefits to us that outweigh the cost of the relationships. One of our challenges is providing our distribution partners with relevant products and services at competitive prices in rapidly evolving markets. Distribution partners may create their own products and services or may seek to license products and services from others that compete with or replace the products and services that we provide. Also, many of our distribution partners are developing companies with limited operating histories and evolving business models that may prove unsuccessful even if our products and services are relevant and our prices competitive. If we are not able to maintain our relationships with our distribution partners, our financial results would be materially adversely affected. Our agreements with most of our distribution partners come up for renewal in 2008 and 2009. Such agreements may be terminated or may not be renewed or replaced on favorable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. In particular, competition is increasing for consumer traffic in the online search market. Recently, we have experienced increased competition from our content providers, whom we refer to as customers, seeking to enter into agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. We anticipate that our content and distribution 11 Table of Contents costs for our revenue sharing arrangements with our distribution partners will increase as revenues grow and may increase as a percentage of revenues to the extent that there are changes to existing arrangements or we enter into new arrangements on less favorable terms. If advertisers perceive that they are not receiving quality traffic to their sites through their paid-per-click advertisements, they may reduce or eliminate their advertising through the Internet, which could have a negative material impact on our financial results. Most of our revenues from our online search business are based on the number of paid “clicks” on commercial search results served on our own Web sites or our distribution partners’ Web properties. Generally, each time a user clicks on a commercial search result, the customer that provided the commercial search result receives a fee from the advertiser who paid for such commercial click and the customer pays us a portion of that fee. If the click originated from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties, we share a portion of the fee we receive with such partner. If an advertiser receives what it perceives to be a large percentage of clicks for which it needs to pay, but that do not result in the intended objectives of such advertiser, the advertiser may reduce or eliminate its advertisements through the customer that provided the commercial search result to us. This leads to a loss of revenue to our customers and consequently to fewer fees paid to us. The customer may also suspend or terminate our ability to provide its content through such distribution partners. The payment of fewer fees to us or the inability to provide content through such distribution partners could have a material negative effect on our financial results. If we fail to detect invalid click activity, we could lose the confidence of advertisers and of our customers, which could cause our business to suffer. Poor quality traffic may be a result of invalid click activity. Such invalid click activity occurs, for example, when a person or automated click generation program clicks on a commercial search result to generate fees for the Web property displaying the commercial search result rather than to view the Web page underlying the commercial search result or when a competitor of the advertiser clicks on the advertiser’s search result to increase the advertising expense of the advertiser. Some of this invalid click activity is sometimes referred to as “click fraud.” When such invalid click activity is detected, our customers may refund the fee paid by the advertiser for such invalid clicks. When such invalid click activity is detected as coming from one of our distribution partners’ Web properties or our own Web sites, our customers may refund the fees paid by the advertisers for such invalid clicks, which in turn reduces the amount of fees the customer pays us. If we or our customers are unable to effectively detect and stop invalid click activity, advertisers may see a reduced return on their advertising investment with the customer because such invalid clicks do not generate quality traffic to such advertisers, which could lead such advertisers to reduce or terminate their investment in such ads. This could also lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue to our customers and consequently to fewer fees paid to us. Additionally, if we are unable to detect and stop invalid click activity that may originate from our own Web sites or the Web properties of our distribution partners, our customers may impose restrictions on our ability to provide their commercial search results on our own Web sites or to our current and future distribution partners, which could have a material negative impact on our financial results. Although we and our customers have in place certain systems to assist with the detection of invalid clicks, these systems may not detect all such invalid click activity, including new types of invalid click activity that may appear. From time to time, some of our customers may notify us that poor quality traffic may be originating from one of our distribution partners. Although the poor quality traffic may be due to factors other than invalid click activity, if we are unable to resolve or determine what factor may be creating the poor quality traffic, we may terminate our agreement with such distribution partner or stop providing content to such distribution partner from the customer that notified us of such traffic in an attempt to maintain the confidence of our customer and their advertisers in the overall quality of our traffic. 12 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenues is attributable to a small number of customers, the loss of any one of which would harm our financial results. We acquire rights to content from numerous third-party content providers, whom we refer to as customers, and our future success is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain relationships with these customers and enter into new relationships with other customers. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from continuing online search operations from a small number of customers. We expect that concentration will continue in the foreseeable future. Our top two customers jointly accounted for 95% or more of our online search revenues in 2007, 2006, and 2005. Google and Yahoo! each accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in 2007. Our principal agreements with these customers expire in 2011. Also, our customers are competitors of each other, and the way we do business with one of them may not be acceptable to one or some of their competitors with whom we also do business, which may result in such competitors not renewing their agreements with us on favorable terms. If any of our top customers significantly reduces or eliminates the content it provides to us under our existing contracts, or we are unable to renew the contracts on favorable terms, or any of these customers are unwilling to pay us amounts that they owe us, or dispute amounts they owe us or have paid to us, our financial results would materially suffer. Failure by us or our search distribution partners to comply with the requirements imposed by our customers relating to the distribution of content may require us to modify, terminate or not enter into certain distribution relationships, may cause the customer to terminate its agreement with us, and may expose us to liability. If our search distribution partners or we fail to meet the requirements and guidelines promulgated by our customers, we may not be able to continue to use such customers’ content or provide the content to such distribution partners, we may be liable to such customers for certain damages they may suffer, and such customers may terminate their agreements with us. In the past, certain of our customers had notified us that we were not in compliance with respect to our use of their content or the redistribution of their content by our distribution partners. We have been able to cure such breaches, however, there can be no assurance that if we breach our agreements in the future we will be able to cure the breach. Our agreements with some of our major customers, including Google and Yahoo!, give such customers the ability to terminate their agreements with us immediately in the case of certain breaches, regardless of whether such breaches could be cured. Additionally, agreements with our customers may be amended from time to time by both parties or may be subject to different interpretation by either party, which may require our use or the rights we grant to our search distribution partners to be modified to comply with such amendments or interpretations. The agreements with our distribution partners generally provide that we may modify the rights we grant to them to avoid being in conflict with the agreements with our customers. Also, some of our customers have approval processes with respect to the redistribution of their content by our distribution partners. Some of our distribution partners that redistribute such content have not complied with such approval processes, and we no longer provide the applicable content to such partners or such partners no longer redistribute the content. If our customers impose additional restrictions, some of our distribution partners may be required to change the manner in which such customer’s content is used or distributed or cease using or distributing such customer’s content. If some of our distribution partners are unable to meet the restrictions, we may need to terminate our agreement with such distribution partners or no longer provide the applicable content to such partners. The loss or reduction of content that we can use or make available to our distribution partners, as well as the termination of distribution or customer agreements, as described above, could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. If our former mobile content providers disagree with our estimate of our royalty liability due to them, it could expose us to significant liability and adversely impact our financial results. Under our agreements with our former mobile content providers, we calculated our royalty liability based on inputs from various sources of data and have been and continue to be subject to audits by our former mobile 13 Table of Contents content providers. If our former mobile content providers disagree with the royalty amounts we calculated were due to them and we are unable to resolve those disagreements amicably, it may subject us to potential litigation and substantial costs even if it is found that the amounts we determined were due to them were accurate. If a former mobile content provider prevails in showing that the royalty amount due to it was not what was intended under our agreement with them and our estimate of the royalty liability was significantly different, it could subject us to significant liability to the affected mobile content provider and have an adverse effect on our financial results. As we announced in January 2007, one of our former mobile content providers, EMI Entertainment World, Inc. (“EMI”), instituted litigation against us due to a disagreement, among other things, over the amount of royalties that were due to it from the mobile content it provided. Although we believe that EMI’s claims are without merit and that we have meritorious defenses to them and intend to vigorously defend the suit, there can be no assurance that we will prevail or that other former mobile content providers will not also disagree with the royalty amount due to them and initiate their own litigation, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have in the past identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that we have been able to remediate; however, there can be no assurance that in the future a material weaknesses may be identified that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements in future periods. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In 2006, as part of its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, our management determined that we had a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting pertaining to our deferred income tax benefit and related income tax asset, which we believe has since been remediated. As defined in Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Auditing Standard No. 5, a material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We strive to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in order to prevent and detect material misstatements in our annual and quarterly financial statements and prevent fraud. We cannot assure, however, that such efforts will be effective. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our operating results, financial position and stock price could be adversely affected. We have a history of incurring net losses, we may incur net losses in the future, and we may not be able to regain or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have incurred net losses on an annual basis from our inception through December 31, 2007, except for 2004, 2005 and 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.0 billion. We may incur net losses in the future including from our operations, the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, losses from acquisitions, restructuring charges or expense related to stock-based compensation and other equity awards. There can be no assurance that we will be able to conduct our business profitably in the future. Our financial results are likely to continue to fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Our financial results have varied on a quarterly basis and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to be volatile or decline. Several factors could cause our quarterly results to fluctuate materially, including: • the loss, termination or reduction in scope of key distribution relationships, such as by distribution partners licensing content directly from content providers; • increased costs related to investments for new initiatives, including new products and services, marketing and new distribution channels; • cash distributions to our shareholders or stock repurchases; 14 Table of Contents • additional restructuring charges we may need to incur in the future; • litigation expense, including settlement; • variable demand for our products and services, including seasonal fluctuations, rapidly evolving technologies and markets and consumer preferences; • the impact on revenues or profitability of changes in pricing for our products and services; • the results from shifts in the mix of products and services we provide; • the effects of acquisitions by us, our customers or our distribution partners; • increases in the costs or availability of content for our products and services; • the requirement to expense the fair value of our employee stock options and other equity awards; • the adoption of new laws, rules or regulations, or new court rulings, regarding intellectual property that may adversely affect our ability to continue to acquire content and distribute our products and services, or the ability of our customers or distribution partners to continue to provide us with their content or distribute our products and services or increase our potential liability; • impairment in the value of long-lived assets or the value of acquired assets, including goodwill, core technology and acquired contracts and relationships; • the effect of changes in accounting principles or in our accounting treatment of revenues or expenses; • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards; • actual or perceived economic downturn that may lead to lower online advertising spend by advertisers, resulting in lower monetization rates for paid search; • the foreign currency effects from transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; and • volatility in the financial markets and the related potential changes to the fair value of our long-term investments. For these reasons, among others, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our financial results to forecast our future performance. Furthermore, our fluctuating operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our stock to decline. Certain of our long-term investments recently failed to trade at recent auctions, which resulted in an impairment charge to a portion of such investments. We do not issue or invest in financial instruments or their derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Included within our investment portfolio are auction rate securities that we purchased for $40.4 million. These investments failed to trade at recent auctions due to insufficient bids from buyers. While we now earn a premium interest rate on the auction rate securities that failed to settle in the auction process, the investments cannot be quickly converted into cash and were considered illiquid as of December 31, 2007. We determined that the fair value of those auction rate securities was $37.5 million at December 31, 2007, and we recorded an impairment charge $2.2 million to a portion of the auction rate securities. If the issuers of such auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, the fair value of those auction rate securities may continue to decline and we may record further impairment charges. Additionally, if such issuers default with respect to such securities, we may no longer continue to receive any interest and may have to further impair such investments. If we are unable to liquidate these investments when we need such liquidity for business purposes, we may need to change or postpone such business purposes or find alternative financing for such business purposes, if available. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock has been highly volatile. Since our common stock began trading on December 15, 1998, our stock price has ranged from $3.70 to $1,385.00 (as adjusted for stock splits). On February 15, 2008, the closing price of our common stock was $10.40. Our stock price could decline or be 15 Table of Contents subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the other risks discussed in this section and the following, among others: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual results of operations; • announcements of significant acquisitions, dispositions, charges, changes in or loss of material contracts or other business developments by us, our customers, distribution partners or competitors; • conditions or trends in the search products and services markets; • announcements of technological innovations, new products or services, or new customer or partner relationships by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • disclosures of any material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting; • the adoption of new regulations or accounting standards; and • announcements or publicity relating to litigation and similar matters. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the market for Internet and technology company securities in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors and general economic conditions may materially and adversely affect our stock price. Our stock has been subject to such price and volume fluctuations in the recent past. Often, class action litigation has been instituted against companies after periods of volatility in the overall market and the price of such companies’ stock. If such litigation were to be instituted against us, even if we were to prevail, it could result in substantial cost and diversion of management’s attention and resources. We operate in new and rapidly evolving markets, and our business model continues to evolve, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects. Our potential for future profitability must be considered in the light of the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties encountered by companies that are in new and rapidly evolving markets and continuing to innovate with new and unproven technologies or services, as well as undergoing significant change. Our online search products and services are in young industries that have undergone rapid and dramatic changes in their short history. We have also recently completed the sale of our directory and mobile services businesses. In addition to the other risks we describe in this section, some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • execute our business strategy based on our new business model; • attract and retain users to our owned and operated sites; • attract and retain distribution partners for our online search services; • attract and retain customers; • manage our growth, control expenditures and align costs with revenues; • respond quickly and appropriately to competitive developments, including: • rapid technological change; • alternatives to access the Internet; • changes in customer requirements; • new products introduced into our markets by our competitors; and • regulatory changes affecting the industries we operate in or the markets we serve both in the United States and foreign countries; and • expand our customer base in markets in which we operate and into other markets. If we do not effectively address the risks we face, we may not be able to achieve profitability. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate highly qualified employees, including our key employees, we may not be able to successfully manage our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract, hire, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and marketing, and corporate development personnel. Qualified personnel with experience relevant to our online search business are scarce and competition to recruit them is intense. If we fail to successfully hire and retain a sufficient number of highly qualified employees, we may have difficulties in supporting our customers or expanding our business. Realignments of resources, reductions in workforce, including our reduction in workforce related to our restructuring or to the sale of our directory and mobile services businesses, or other operational decisions have created and could continue to create an unstable work environment and may have a negative effect on our ability to hire, retain and motivate employees. Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our key employees, all of whom, except our chief executive officer, are employed on an at-will basis. We have recently experienced significant changes at our executive management level, and may do so in the future. If we lose the services of one or more key employees and are unable to recruit and retain a suitable successor(s), we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. There can be no assurance that any retention program we initiate will be successful at retaining employees, including key employees. In light of current market and regulatory conditions, the value of stock options or restricted stock units granted to employees may cease to provide sufficient incentive to our employees. Like many technology companies, we use stock options, restricted stock units and other equity-based awards to recruit technology professionals and senior level employees. We have instituted a restricted stock unit program in lieu of issuing stock options to employees, other than executives, because stock options are not currently seen as providing enough incentive to attract or retain employees and because, beginning in 2006, the accounting treatment of options required us to expense the fair value of our employee stock options, which may make it difficult or overly expensive for us to issue stock options to our employees in the future. Additionally, due to the reduction in our stock price as a result of our recent dividends, most outstanding options held by employees have an exercise price significantly higher than the current market price of our stock. With respect to those executives to whom we also issue options, we face a significant challenge in retaining them if the value of these stock options is either not substantial enough or so substantial that the executive leaves after their stock options have vested. If our stock price does not increase significantly above the prices of our options, or option programs become impracticable, we may need to issue new options or other equity incentives or increase other forms of compensation to motivate and retain our executives. We may undertake or seek stockholder approval to undertake other equity-based programs to retain our employees, which may be viewed as dilutive to our stockholders or may increase our compensation costs. Additionally, there can be no assurance that any such programs we undertake, including the restricted stock unit awards, will be successful in motivating and retaining our employees. Our search products and services may expose us to claims relating to how the content was obtained, distributed or displayed. Our online search services link users, either directly through our Web sites or indirectly through the Web properties of our distribution partners, to third party Web pages and content in response to search queries and other requests. These services could expose us to legal liability from claims relating to such third-party content and sites, the manner in which these services are distributed and displayed by us or our distribution partners, or how the content provided by our customers was obtained or provided by our customers. Such claims could include the following: infringement of copyright, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights; violation of privacy and publicity rights; unfair competition; defamation; providing false or misleading information; obscenity; and illegal gambling. Regardless of the legal merits of any such claims, they could result in costly litigation, be time consuming to defend and divert management’s attention and resources. If there were a 17 Table of Contents determination that we had violated third-party rights or applicable law, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing arrangements (if available), or be required to change our business practices. We may also have obligations to indemnify and hold harmless certain of our customers or distribution partners for damages they suffer for such violations under our contracts with them. Implementing measures to reduce our exposure to such claims could require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our products and services. As a result, these claims could result in material harm to our business. In the past, there have been legal actions brought or threatened against distributors of downloadable applications deemed to be “adware” or “spyware.” Additionally, certain bills are pending and some laws have been passed in certain jurisdictions setting forth requirements that must be met before a downloadable application is downloaded to an end user’s computer. We partner with some distribution partners that provide adware to their users if the partners adhere to our strict guidelines requiring them, among other things, to disclose to the user what the adware does and to obtain the consent of the user before the application is downloaded. The adware must also be easy to uninstall. We also review the application the partner proposes to use before we distribute our results to them. We also have the right to audit our partners, and if we find that they are not following our guidelines, we can terminate our agreement with them or cease providing content to that downloadable application. Some partners have not been able to meet the new guidelines imposed by us or some of our customers, and we no longer provide the applicable content or any content, as the case may be, to such partners or certain of their downloadable applications. We work closely with some of our major customers to try to identify potential distribution partners that do not meet our guidelines or are in breach of our distribution agreements and we work with our distribution partners to ensure they deliver quality traffic. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we implement to reduce our exposure to claims that certain ways in which the content is distributed violate legal requirements will be successful. As stated above, these claims could result in material harm to our business. Our financial and operating results will suffer if we are unsuccessful at integrating acquired technologies and businesses. We have acquired a number of technologies and businesses in the past and may engage in further acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may involve use of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of stock, the potential incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets. In the past, our financial results have suffered significantly due to impairment charges of goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior acquisitions. Acquisitions also involve numerous risks which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or stock price, including: • difficulties in assimilating the operations, products, technology, information systems and personnel of acquired companies which result in unanticipated costs, delays or allocation of resources; • difficulties in acquiring foreign companies, including risks related to integrating operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; • the dilutive effect on earnings per share as a result of incurring operating losses and the amortization of acquired intangible assets for the acquired business; • diverting management’s attention from other business concerns; • impairing relationships with our customers or those of the acquired companies, or breaching a significant or material contracts due to the consummation of the acquisition; • impairing relationships with our employees or those of the acquired companies; • failing to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions in a timely manner or at all; and • adverse outcome of litigation matters assumed in or arising out of the acquisitions. 18 Table of Contents The success of the operations of companies that we have acquired will often depend on the continued efforts of the management and key employees of those acquired companies. Accordingly, we have typically attempted to retain key employees and members of existing management of acquired companies under the overall supervision of our senior management. We have, however, not always been successful in these attempts at retention. Failure to retain key employees of an acquired company may make it more difficult to integrate or manage the business of the acquired company, may reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition by increasing costs, causing delays, or otherwise and may expose us to additional competition from companies these employees may join or form. Our presence in markets outside the United States may be unsuccessful and could result in losses. We currently provide online search offerings in Europe. We have limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services in international markets, and we may not be able to successfully execute our business model in these markets. Our success in these markets will be directly linked to the success of relationships with our distribution and content partners and other third parties. As the international markets in which we operate continue to grow, competition in these markets will intensify. Local companies may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of and focus on the local markets. Some of our domestic competitors who have substantially greater resources than we do may be able to more quickly and comprehensively develop and grow in the international markets. Our international presence may also require significant financial investment including, among other things, the expense of developing localized products, the costs of maintaining foreign companies and expenditure of resources in developing distribution and content relationships and the increased costs of supporting remote operations. Other risks of doing business in international markets include the increased risks and burdens of complying with different legal and regulatory standards, difficulties in managing and staffing foreign operations, limitations on the repatriation of funds and fluctuations of foreign exchange rates, varying levels of Internet technology adoption and infrastructure, and ability to enforce our contracts in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our success internationally could be limited by barriers to such markets, such as tariffs, adverse tax consequences, and technology export controls. If we cannot manage these risks effectively, the costs of doing business in some international markets may be prohibitive or our costs may increase disproportionately to our revenues. If the third party that provides us with data center services is unable to provide us with such services at the performance and reliability levels we require, or we are unable to transition such services effectively, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the performance, reliability and availability of our services. In connection with our recently completed sale of our mobile services business, we disposed of most of our data center assets and the personnel who operated such assets, and, through a transition period expected to end in September 2008, a third party will be providing data center services to us for our on-going online search business. During this transition period, as we develop our own data centers for our on-going online search business, we will be dependent on such third party to provide us with the data center services we previously provided to ourselves at the same or better levels of performance and reliability. Additionally, the data center infrastructure and components of the third party providing us these services is also used by the third party to provide similar services to itself and another company. Changes made at the request of one company to the infrastructure may result in unforeseen and adverse effects on the services being provided to us. Failure by the third party to provide us such services at such levels of performance and reliability, or adverse effects resulting from changes to the infrastructure, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our financial results. Furthermore, the cost of replacing the services currently being provided to us by the third party will most likely result in significant additional capital and operating expenses, which could have a material adverse effect 19 Table of Contents on our financial results. Also, if we have not replaced the services currently being provided by the third party when the transition period expires, we will need to operate our systems either through an extension with such third party or an alternative provider. The potential alternative provider may expose us to similar risks as our current provider, which may have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. In addition, the transition to an alternative provider or us may result in significant additional capital and operating expenses. The migration of the services to us or to an alternative service provider also exposes us to the potential loss or corruption of our data as a result of the transition, which may have a negative effect on our operations. We will also need to hire new personnel to operate our own data centers. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify, hire and retain adequate and trained personnel to operate our own data centers, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our systems could fail or become unavailable, which could harm our reputation, result in a loss of current and potential customers and cause us to breach agreements with our partners. In connection with our recently completed sale of our mobile services business, we disposed of most of our data center assets and the personnel who operated such assets, and, through a transition period expected to end in September 2008, a third party will be providing data center services to us for our on-going online search business. Thereafter, either we or another third party will need to provide data center services to support our business. Regardless of whether we or a third party provides the data center services for use in our business, we or the third party may not have disaster and redundancy planning or facilities in place so that business-critical systems services are redundant across two physical locations. Such systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet breakdown, break-in, earthquake or similar events. We would face significant damage as a result of these events, and our business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all the losses that may occur. In addition, such systems use sophisticated software that may contain bugs that could interrupt service. For these reasons, we and, during the transition period, the third party providing us with these services may be unable to develop or successfully manage the infrastructure necessary to meet current or future demands for reliability and scalability of our systems, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations or financial results. If the volume of traffic to our products and services increases substantially, we must respond in a timely fashion by expanding our systems, which may entail upgrading our technology and network infrastructure. During the transition period discussed above, we may need to rely on the third party providing data center services to us to carry out such expansion and upgrading of their systems, technology and infrastructure. Our ability or that of the third party to support our expansion and upgrade requirements may be constrained due to our or the third party’s business demands. Due to the number of our customers and the products and services that we offer, we could experience periodic capacity constraints which may cause temporary unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times and lower levels of customer service. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our products and application services or we or, during the transition period, the third party fails to expand and upgrade its systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases in a timely manner. The security measures we have implemented to secure information we collect and store may be breached, which could cause us to breach agreements with our partners and expose us to potential investigation and penalties by authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. We take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access despite our efforts. If such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify persons whose information was disclosed or accessed under existing and proposed laws. We also may be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was disclosed. 20 Table of Contents We may be subject to liability for our use or distribution of information that we gather or receive from third parties and indemnity protections or insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. We obtain content and commerce information from third parties. When we distribute this information, we may be liable for the data that is contained in that content. This could subject us to legal liability for such things as defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement, violation of privacy or publicity rights and product or service liability, among others. Laws or regulations of certain jurisdictions may also deem some content illegal, which may expose us to legal liability as well. We also gather personal information from users in order to provide personalized services. Gathering and processing this personal information may subject us to legal liability for, among other things, negligence, defamation, invasion of privacy or product or service liability. We are also subject to laws and regulations, both in the United States and abroad, regarding the collection and use of end user information. If we do not comply with these laws and regulations, we may be exposed to legal liability. Although the agreements by which we obtain content contain indemnity provisions, these provisions may not cover a particular claim or type of claim or the party giving the indemnity may not have the financial resources to cover the claim. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover fully the amounts or types of claims that might be made against us. Any liability that we incur as a result of content we receive from third parties could harm our financial results. If others claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, we may be forced to seek expensive licenses, reengineer our products, engage in expensive and time-consuming litigation or stop marketing and licensing our products. Third parties have in the past and may in the future make claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy or publicity rights. In some cases, the ownership or scope of an entity’s or person’s rights is unclear and may also change over time, including through changes in U.S. or international intellectual property laws or regulations or through court decisions or decisions by agencies or regulatory boards that manage such rights. We attempt to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties in our product development, marketing, and licensing efforts. However, we do not regularly conduct patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. Patent searches generally return only a fraction of the issued patents that may be deemed relevant to a particular product or service. It is therefore nearly impossible to determine, with any level of certainty, whether a particular product or service may be construed as infringing a U.S. or foreign patent. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed by third parties that relate to our products. In addition, other companies, as well as research and academic institutions, have conducted research for many years in the search technology field, and this research could lead to the filing of further patent applications. If we were to discover that our products violated or potentially violated third-party proprietary rights, including those third-party proprietary rights that came about due to decisions and other changes regarding a person’s or entity’s proprietary rights discussed above, we might be required to obtain licenses that are costly or contain terms unfavorable to us, or expend substantial resources to reengineer those products so that they would not violate such third party rights. Any reengineering effort may not be successful, and we cannot be certain that any such licenses would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Any third-party infringement claims against us could result in costly litigation or liability and be time consuming to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product and service delays or require us to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. 21 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our technology and intellectual property, but we may be unable to adequately or cost-effectively protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, thus weakening our competitive position and negatively impacting our financial results. To protect our rights in our products, services, and technology, we rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, patents, trade secrets, and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions. We also rely on the law pertaining to trademarks and domain names to protect the value of our corporate brands and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products, services or technology, or obtain and use information, marks or technology that we regard as proprietary, or otherwise violate or infringe our intellectual property rights. In addition, it is possible that others could independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, or if others independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property, we could lose our competitive position. Effectively policing the unauthorized use of our products, services, and technology is time-consuming and costly, and there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our technology or other proprietary assets. Our intellectual property may be subject to even greater risk in foreign jurisdictions, as protection is not sought or obtained in every country in which our products, services, and technology are available. Also, the laws of many countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and intellectual property developed for us by our employees or contractors in foreign jurisdictions may not be as protected as if created in the United States and it is often more difficult and costly to enforce our rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitive position in markets abroad may suffer. We have implemented anti-takeover provisions that could make it more difficult to acquire us. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our charter documents which could have an anti-takeover effect include: • the classification of our board of directors into three groups so that directors serve staggered three-year terms, which may make it difficult for a potential acquirer to gain control of our board of directors; • the ability to authorize the issuance of shares of undesignated preferred stock without a vote of stockholders; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; and • limitations on stockholders’ ability to call special stockholder meetings. On July 19, 2002, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, pursuant to which we declared and paid a dividend of one right for each share of common stock held by stockholders of record as of August 9, 2002. Unless redeemed by us prior to the time the rights are exercised, upon the occurrence of certain events, the rights will entitle the holders to receive shares of our preferred stock, or shares of an acquiring entity. The issuance of the rights would make the acquisition of InfoSpace more expensive to the acquirer and could delay or discourage third parties from acquiring InfoSpace without the approval of our board of directors. RISKS RELATED TO THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE Intense competition in the online search markets could prevent us from increasing distribution of our services in those markets or cause us to lose market share. Our current business model depends on distribution of our products and services into the online search markets, which are extremely competitive and rapidly changing. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer 22 Table of Contents operating histories, more developed infrastructures, greater name recognition or more established relationships in the industry than we have. Our competitors may be able to adopt more aggressive pricing policies, develop and expand their product and service offerings more rapidly, adapt to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer and distribution partner requirements more quickly, take advantage of acquisitions and other opportunities more readily, achieve greater economies of scale, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. Some of the companies we compete with are currently customers of ours, the loss of which could harm our business. Because of these competitive factors and due to our relatively small size and financial resources, we may be unable to compete successfully. Additionally, our financial results could be adversely affected as well if our distribution partners create their own products and services that compete or replace the products and services we provide or they acquire such products and services from other sources. We continue to experience increased competition from customers seeking to enter into agreements directly with our existing or potential distribution partners, making it increasingly difficult for us to renew agreements with existing major distribution partners or to enter into distribution agreements with new partners on favorable terms. Consolidation in the industries in which we operate could lead to increased competition and loss of customers. The Internet industry (including search) has experienced substantial consolidation. We expect this consolidation to continue. These acquisitions could adversely affect our business and results of operations in a number of ways, including the following: • customers could acquire or be acquired by one of our other customers and stop licensing content to us, or gain additional negotiating leverage in their relationships with us; • our distribution partners could acquire or be acquired by one of our competitors and terminate their relationship with us; • our distribution partners could merge with each other, which could reduce our ability to negotiate favorable terms; and • competitors could improve their competitive positions through strategic acquisitions. Security breaches may pose risks to the uninterrupted operation of our systems. Our networks or those from third parties that we utilize may be vulnerable to unauthorized access by hackers or others, computer viruses and other disruptive problems. Someone who is able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate our proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Subscribers to some of our services are required to provide information in order to utilize the service that may be considered to be personally identifiable or private information. Unauthorized access to, and abuse of, this information could subject us to a risk of loss or litigation and liability. We may need to expend significant capital or other resources protecting against the threat of security breaches or alleviating problems caused by breaches. Although we intend to continue to implement and improve our security measures, persons may be able to circumvent the measures that we implement in the future. Eliminating computer viruses and alleviating other security problems may require interruptions, delays or cessation of service to users accessing our services, any of which could harm our business. In connection with the sale of our mobile services business, we disposed of most of our data center assets and a third party will be providing data center services to us through a transition period expected to end in September 2008. During this transition period, as we develop our own data centers for our on-going online search business, we will rely on a third party to provide us with the data center services we previously provided to ourselves, which includes security of our networks. Failure by the third party to prevent breaches of our network security could have a material adverse affect our operations and financial results. 23 Table of Contents Governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. The growth and development of the Internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the Internet. Application of these laws can be unclear. The costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. Several federal or state laws could impact our business. Federal laws include those designed to restrict the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions or obligations for online services when dealing with minors. Such legislation may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. The application to advertising in our industries of existing laws regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses can be unclear. Such regulated businesses may include, for example, gambling; distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, tobacco or firearms; or insurance, securities brokerage and legal services. Additionally, certain bills are pending and some laws have been passed in certain jurisdictions setting forth requirements that must be met before a downloadable application is downloaded to an end user’s computer. We post our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by the FTC or others, including potential class action litigation, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy and data protection issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could materially and adversely affect our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. This could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. The FTC has recommended to search engine providers that paid-ranking search results be delineated from non-paid results. To the extent that the FTC may in the future issue specific requirements regarding the nature of such delineation, which would require modifications to the presentation of search results, revenue from the affected search engines could be negatively impacted. Due to the nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate Internet transmissions, through data protection laws amongst others, or institute proceedings for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us or force us to change our business practices. We rely on the infrastructure of the Internet and of wireless networks, over which we have no control and the failure of which could substantially undermine our operations. Our success depends, in large part, on other companies maintaining the Internet system infrastructure. In particular, we rely on other companies to maintain a reliable network backbone that provides adequate speed, data capacity and security and to develop products that enable reliable Internet access and services. As the Internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the Internet system infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on them, and the Internet’s performance or reliability may suffer as a result of this continued growth. Some of the companies that we rely upon to maintain network infrastructure may lack sufficient capital to support their long-term operations. The failure of the internet infrastructure would substantially undermine our operations and may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable with respect to the current reporting period. 