Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. The below list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. The ability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost effective manner We are undertaking two capital expansion projects which will continue through 2007 in connection with previously announced long-term commercial contracts. The inability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This growth places a significant demand on management and operational resources. Our success will depend upon the ability of key financial and operational management to ensure the necessary resources are in place to properly execute these expansion projects. The demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by demand for our customers’ products and services Our business is substantially derived from titanium mill products and fabricated metal parts, which are primarily used by our customers as components in the manufacture of their products. The ability or inability to meet our financial expectations could be directly impacted by our customers’ abilities or inabilities to meet their own financial expectations. A downturn in demand for our customers’ products and services could occur for reasons beyond their control such as unforeseen spending constraints, competitive pressures, rising prices, the inability to contain costs, and other economic, environmental or political factors. A slowdown in demand by or complete loss of business from these customers could have a material impact on our economic situation. A substantial amount of revenue is derived from the aerospace and defense industries and a limited number of customers Approximately three-quarters of our annual revenue is derived from the aerospace and defense industries. Within those industries is a small number of consumers of titanium products. Those industries have shown the potential of sudden and dramatic changes in forecasted spending which can negatively impact the needs for our products and services. Some of our customers are particularly sensitive to the level of government spending on defense-related products. Sudden reductions in defense spending could occur due to economic or political changes which could result in a downturn in demand of defense-related titanium products. Some of our customers are dependent on the commercial airline industry which has shown in recent years to be a somewhat unstable economic environment due to threats of terrorism, rising fuel costs, aggressive competition, and other factors. Any one or combination of these factors could occur suddenly and result in a reduction or cancellation in orders of new airplanes and parts which could have an adverse impact on our business. We may not be able to project or plan for the impact of these events that could have a negative impact on our results of operations and that could not be predicted by our customers or by the Company in a timely manner. 9 Table of Contents We may be subject to competitive disadvantages The titanium metals industry is highly competitive on a worldwide basis. Our competitors are located primarily in the U.S., Japan, Russia, Europe, and China. Not only do we face competition for a limited number of customers with other producers of titanium products but we also must compete with producers of other materials of construction. Our competitors could experience more favorable economic conditions than us including better raw materials costs, favorable labor agreements, or other factors which could provide them with competitive advantages in their ability to provide goods and services. Our foreign competitors in particular may have the ability to offer goods and services to our customers at more favorable prices due to advantageous economic, environmental, political, or other factors. Titanium competes with other materials of construction including stainless steel, nickel-based high temperature and corrosion resistant alloys, and composites. Changes in costs or other factors related to the production and supply of titanium mill products compared to costs or other factors related to the production and supply of other types of materials of construction may negatively impact our business and the industry as a whole. New competitive forces unknown to us today could also emerge which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages The 356 hourly, clerical and technical employees at our Niles, Ohio facility are represented by the United Steelworkers of America. Our current labor agreement with this union expires January 31, 2010. The hourly employees at our RTI Tradco facility in Washington, Missouri voted in May of 2006 to become members of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. There are 164 employees in the bargaining unit. Our current labor agreement with this union expires February 19, 2011. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate new bargaining agreements in 2010 at Niles or 2011 at RTI Tradco on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by a labor stoppage. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement, or as a result of a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may experience a lack of supply of raw materials at costs that provide us with acceptable margin levels The raw materials required for the production of titanium products are acquired from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we have long-term contracts in place for the procurement of certain amounts of raw material, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers can fulfill their contractual obligations. Our suppliers may be adversely impacted by events within or outside of their control that could not be projected and that may adversely affect our business operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate amounts of raw materials from other suppliers in the event that our primary suppliers are unable to meet our needs. We may experience an increase in prices for raw materials which could have a negative impact on our profit margins and we may not be able to project the impact that an increase in costs may cause in a timely manner. We may be contractually obligated to supply our customers at price levels that do not result in our expected margins due to unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials. We may experience dramatic increases in demand and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate levels of raw materials at prices that are within acceptable cost parameters in order to fulfill that demand. We may experience a shortage in the supply of energy or an increase in energy costs to operate our plants We own twenty-four natural gas wells which provide some but not all of the energy required by our Niles, Ohio operations. Because our operations are reliant on energy sources from outside suppliers, we may experience significant increases in electricity and natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power, natural gas, or other resources due to natural disasters, interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes, or the inability to extend existing energy supply contracts upon expiration on economical terms. 10 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of international operations We operate subsidiaries and conduct business with suppliers and customers in foreign countries which exposes us to risks associated with international business activities. We could be significantly impacted by those risks which include the potential for volatile economic and labor conditions, political instability, expropriation, and changes in taxes, tariffs, and other regulatory costs. We are also exposed to and can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate of the United States Dollar against other foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian Dollar. Although we are operating primarily in countries with relatively stable economic and political climates, there can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by those risks inherent to international operations. We are dependent on services that are subject to price and availability fluctuations We depend on third parties to provide conversion services that may be critical to the manufacture of our products. Purchase prices and availability of these services are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain these critical services on a timely basis, on acceptable prices and other acceptable terms, or at all. We may be affected by our ability or inability to obtain credit Our ability to access the credit markets in the future to obtain additional financing, if needed, could be influenced by the Company’s ability to meet current covenant requirements associated with its existing credit agreement, its credit rating, or other factors. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, management, metallurgists, and staff positions. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our Company’s ability to perform until suitable replacements are found. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. The demand for our products and services may be affected by factors outside of our control War, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues including pandemics whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a negative impact on the global economy as a whole. Our business operations, as well as our suppliers’ and customers’ business operations, are subject to interruption by those factors as well as other events beyond our control such as governmental regulations, fire, power shortages, and others. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, these events could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or to receive materials from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by these events. We may not be able to sustain effective internal controls over financial reporting Because of its inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or controls, such as our current system implementations, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents 