ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in the Company’s Common Stock involves risks. The following is a description of the material risks and uncertainties that the Company believes affect its business and an investment in the Common Stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that the Company is unaware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, 15 Table of Contents also may become important factors that affect the Company and its business. If any of the risks described in this annual report on Form 10-K were to occur, the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Common Stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. To achieve its past levels of growth, the Company has initiated internal growth programs and completed a number of acquisitions. The Company may not be able to sustain its historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow at all. In addition, the Company may not be able to obtain the financing necessary to fund additional growth and may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit the opening of new banking centers. Further, the Company may be unable to attract and retain experienced bankers, which could adversely affect its internal growth. If the Company is not able to continue its historical levels of growth, it may not be able to maintain its historical earnings trends. If the Company is unable to manage its growth effectively, its operations could be negatively affected. Companies that experience rapid growth face various risks and difficulties, including: • finding suitable markets for expansion; • finding suitable candidates for acquisition; • attracting funding to support additional growth; • maintaining asset quality; • attracting and retaining qualified management; and • maintaining adequate regulatory capital. In addition, in order to manage its growth and maintain adequate information and reporting systems within its organization, the Company must identify, hire and retain additional qualified employees, particularly in the accounting and operational areas of its business. If the Company does not manage its growth effectively, its business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be negatively affected, and the Company may not be able to continue to implement its business strategy and successfully conduct its operations. Difficult market conditions and economic trends have adversely affected the banking industry and could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company is operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in its markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market that have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. The Company retains direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and it is affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse affect on the Company’s borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents The Company’s ability to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate the losses inherent in its credit portfolio is made more complex by these difficult market and economic conditions. The Company also expects to face increased regulation and government oversight as a result of these downward trends. This increased government action may increase the Company’s costs and limit its ability to pursue certain business opportunities. In addition, the Company may be required to pay even higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums than the recently increased level, because financial institution failures resulting from the depressed market conditions and other factors have depleted and may continue to deplete the deposit insurance fund and reduce its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. A prolonged national economic recession or further deterioration of these conditions in the Company’s markets could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in its allowance for credit losses and result in the following consequences: • increases in loan delinquencies; • increases in nonperforming assets and foreclosures; • decreases in demand for the Company’s products and services, which could adversely affect its liquidity position; and • decreases in the value of the collateral securing the Company’s loans, especially real estate, which could reduce customers’ borrowing power. The Company does not believe these difficult conditions are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult economic conditions on the Company, its customers and the other financial institutions in its market. As a result, the Company may experience increases in foreclosures, delinquencies and customer bankruptcies, as well as more restricted access to funds. The U.S. Treasury and the FDIC have initiated programs to address economic stabilization, yet the efficacy of these programs in stabilizing the economy and the banking system at large are uncertain. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented and could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and access to capital. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If the current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience further adverse effects, which may be material, on its ability to access capital and on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Liquidity risk could impair the Company’s ability to fund operations and jeopardize its financial condition. Liquidity is essential to the Company’s business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on its liquidity. The Company’s access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance its activities or on terms which are acceptable to it could be impaired by factors that affect the Company specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact the Company’s access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of its business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which its loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against it. The Company’s ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to it, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. 17 Table of Contents If the Company is unable to identify and acquire other financial institutions and successfully integrate its acquired businesses, its business and earnings may be negatively affected. The market for acquisitions remains highly competitive, and the Company may be unable to find acquisition candidates in the future that fit its acquisition and growth strategy. To the extent that the Company is unable to find suitable acquisition candidates, an important component of its growth strategy may be lost. Acquisitions of financial institutions involve operational risks and uncertainties and acquired companies may have unforeseen liabilities, exposure to asset quality problems, key employee and customer retention problems and other problems that could negatively affect the Company’s organization. The Company may not be able to complete future acquisitions and, if completed, the Company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations, management, products and services of the entities that it acquires and eliminate redundancies. The integration process could result in the loss of key employees or disruption of the combined entity’s ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the Company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the transaction. The integration process may also require significant time and attention from the Company’s management that they would otherwise direct at servicing existing business and developing new business. The Company’s failure to successfully integrate the entities it acquires into its existing operations may increase its operating costs significantly and adversely affect its business and earnings. The Company’s dependence on loans secured by real estate subjects it to risks relating to fluctuations in the real estate market and related interest rates and legislation that could require additional capital and could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Approximately 81% of the Company’s total loans as of December 31, 2008 consisted of loans included in the real estate loan portfolio with 18.7% in construction, 21.7% in residential real estate and 40.4% in commercial real estate. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A weakening of the real estate market in the Company’s primary market areas could have an adverse effect on the demand for new loans, the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, the value of real estate and other collateral securing the loans and the value of real estate owned by the Company. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that the Company would be required to increase its allowance for credit losses, which could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $666.1 million or 18.7% of total loans in construction and land development loans. Construction loans are subject to risks during the construction phase that are not present in standard residential real estate and commercial real estate loans. These risks include: • the viability of the contractor; • the contractor’s ability to complete the project, to meet deadlines and time schedules and to stay within cost estimates; and • concentrations of such loans with a single contractor and its affiliates. Real estate construction loans also present risks of default in the event of declines in property values or volatility in the real estate market during the construction phase. If the Company is forced to foreclose on a project prior to completion, it may not be able to recover the entire unpaid portion of the loan, may be required to fund additional amounts to complete a project and may have to hold the property for an indeterminate amount of time. If any of these risks were to occur, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In December 2006, banking regulators issued guidance regarding high concentrations of commercial and real estate construction loans within bank loan portfolios. The guidance requires institutions that exceed certain 18 Table of Contents levels of real estate lending to maintain higher capital ratios than institutions with lower concentrations if they do not have appropriate risk management policies and practices in place. If there is any deterioration in the Company’s commercial mortgage or construction and land development portfolios or if its regulators conclude that the Company has not implemented appropriate risk management policies and practices, it could adversely affect the Company’s business and result in a requirement of increased capital levels, and such capital may not be available at that time. The Company’s business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect its earnings and capital levels. The majority of the Company’s assets are monetary in nature and, as a result, the Company is subject to significant risk from changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates can impact the Company’s net interest income as well as the valuation of its assets and liabilities. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are significantly dependent on its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between the interest income earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Therefore, any change in general market interest rates, such as a change in the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve Board or otherwise, can have a significant effect on the Company’s net interest income. The Company’s assets and liabilities may react differently to changes in overall market rates or conditions because there may be mismatches between the repricing or maturity characteristics of the assets and liabilities. The Company’s profitability depends significantly on local economic conditions. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the primary markets in Texas in which it operates and where its loans are concentrated. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in the greater Houston and Dallas metropolitan areas and in the east, central, north central, south central and southeast areas of Texas. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the Company’s commercial, real estate and construction and land development loans, the ability of its borrowers to repay their loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. In addition, if the population or income growth in the Company’s market areas is slower than projected, income levels, deposits and housing starts could be adversely affected and could result in a reduction of the Company’s expansion, growth and profitability. Although economic conditions in Texas have not deteriorated to the same extent as in other areas, such conditions are declining and are expected to continue to decline. If the Company’s market areas experience a downturn or a recession for a prolonged period of time, the Company would likely experience significant increases in nonperforming loans, which could lead to operating losses, impaired liquidity and eroding capital. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Company’s allowance for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover actual credit losses, which could adversely affect its earnings. As a lender, the Company is exposed to the risk that its loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to fully compensate the Company for the outstanding balance of the loan plus the costs to dispose of the collateral. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of the Company’s loan portfolio, including the diversification by industry of its commercial loan portfolio, the amount of nonperforming assets and related collateral, the volume, growth and composition of its loan portfolio, the effects on the loan portfolio of current economic indicators and their probable impact on borrowers and the evaluation of its loan portfolio through its internal loan review process and other relevant factors. 19 Table of Contents The Company maintains an allowance for credit losses in an attempt to cover estimated losses inherent in its loan portfolio. Additional credit losses will likely occur in the future and may occur at a rate greater than the Company has experienced to date. In determining the size of the allowance, the Company relies on an analysis of its loan portfolio, its historical loss experience and its evaluation of general economic conditions. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. If the Company’s assumptions prove to be incorrect or if it experiences significant loan losses in future periods, its current allowance may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in its loan portfolio. A material addition to the allowance could cause net income and possibly, capital, to decrease. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for credit losses and may require the Company to increase its provision for credit losses or recognize further charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of the Company’s management. Any increase in the Company’s allowance for credit losses or charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results, financial condition and cash flows. The small to medium-sized businesses that the Company lends to may have fewer resources to weather a downturn in the economy, which may impair a borrower’s ability to repay a loan to the Company that could materially harm the Company’s operating results. The Company targets its business development and marketing strategy primarily to serve the banking and financial services needs of small to medium-sized businesses. These small to medium-sized businesses frequently have smaller market share than their competition, may be more vulnerable to economic downturns, often need substantial additional capital to expand or compete and may experience significant volatility in operating results. Any one or more of these factors may impair the borrower’s ability to repay a loan. In addition, the success of a small to medium-sized business often depends on the management talents and efforts of one or two persons or a small group of persons, and the death, disability or resignation of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on the business and its ability to repay a loan. Economic downturns and other events that negatively impact the Company’s market areas could cause the Company to incur substantial credit losses that could negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. If the goodwill that the Company recorded in connection with a business acquisition becomes impaired, it could require charges to earnings, which would have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Goodwill represents the amount of acquisition cost over the fair value of net assets the Company acquired in the purchase of another financial institution. The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of the asset might be impaired. The Company determines impairment by comparing the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any such adjustments are reflected in the Company’s results of operations in the periods in which they become known. At December 31, 2008, the Company’s goodwill totaled $874.7 million. While the Company has not recorded any such impairment charges since it initially recorded the goodwill, there can be no assurance that the Company’s future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and related write-downs, which may have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future and such capital may not be available when needed or at all. The Company may need to raise additional capital in the future to provide it with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs. In addition, the Company may elect to raise additional capital to support its business or to finance acquisitions, if any. The Company’s ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on, among other things, conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of its control, and its financial performance. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions may increase the Company’s cost of funding and limit its access to some of its customary sources of capital, including, but not limited to, inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the discount window of the Federal Reserve. The Company cannot assure you that such capital will be available to it on acceptable terms or at all. Any occurrence that may limit its access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of investors, depositors of the Banks or counterparties participating in the capital markets, may adversely affect the Company’s capital costs and its ability to raise capital and, in turn, its liquidity. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. An interruption in or breach in security of the Company’s information systems may result in a loss of customer business and have an adverse affect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposits, servicing or loan origination systems. Although the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or minimize the effect of a failure, interruption or breach in security of its communications or information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by the Company. The occurrence of any such failures, interruptions or security breaches could result in a loss of customer business and have a negative effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The business of the Company is dependent on technology and the Company’s inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends in part upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers, which may negatively affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company operates in a highly regulated environment and, as a result, is subject to extensive regulation and supervision; and changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations could adversely affect its financial performance. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. Any change in applicable regulations or federal or state legislation could have a substantial impact on the Company, its subsidiary bank, and their respective operations. Additional legislation 21 Table of Contents and regulations may be enacted or adopted in the future that could significantly affect the Company’s powers, authority and operations, or the powers, authority and operations of the Bank, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Further, regulators have significant discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by banks and bank holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. The exercise of this regulatory discretion and power may have a negative impact on the Company. Risks Associated with the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s corporate organizational documents and the provisions of Texas law to which it is subject may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company that you may favor. The Company’s amended and restated articles of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain various provisions which may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change of control of the Company. These provisions include: • a board of directors classified into three classes of directors with the directors of each class having staggered three-year terms; • a provision that any special meeting of the Company’s shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board and chief executive officer, the president, a majority of the board of directors or the holders of at least 50% of the Company’s shares entitled to vote at the meeting; • a provision establishing certain advance notice procedures for nomination of candidates for election as directors and for shareholder proposals to be considered at an annual or special meeting of shareholders; and • a provision that denies shareholders the right to amend the Company’s bylaws. The Company’s articles of incorporation provide for noncumulative voting for directors and authorize the board of directors to issue shares of its preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The issuance of the Company’s preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, a controlling interest in the Company. In addition, certain provisions of Texas law, including a provision which restricts certain business combinations between a Texas corporation and certain affiliated shareholders, may delay, discourage or prevent an attempted acquisition or change in control of the Company. The holders of the Company’s junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of the Company’s shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $92.3 million in junior subordinated debentures outstanding that were issued to the Company’s unconsolidated subsidiary trusts. The subsidiary trusts purchased the junior subordinated debentures from the Company using the proceeds from the sale of trust preferred securities to third party investors. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by the Company to the extent not paid or made by each trust, provided the trust has funds available for such obligations. The junior subordinated debentures are senior to the Company’s shares of Common Stock. As a result, the Company must make interest payments on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on its Common Stock; and, in the event of the Company’s bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of the Common Stock. Additionally, the Company has the right to defer periodic distributions on the junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time the Company would be prohibited from paying dividends on its Common Stock. The Company’s ability to pay the future distributions depends upon the earnings of the Bank and dividends from the Bank to the Company, which may be inadequate to service the obligations. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 