Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of these individual risks described below, or any number of these risks occurring simultaneously, could have a material effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, business, or results of operations. You should carefully consider these factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, when evaluating your investment in our securities. We are subject to risks associated with global economic and political uncertainties. Like other companies, we are susceptible to macroeconomic downturns in the United States and abroad that may affect our performance and the performance of our customers and suppliers. Further, the lingering effects of the global financial crisis that began in 2008 may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. That crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system has had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis has already had, we may face significant financial and operational challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or if they worsen. For example, an extension of the credit crisis to other industries (for example, the availability of financing for the purchase of commercial aircraft) could adversely impact overall demand for our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. In addition, our ability to access the traditional bank and capital markets may be severely restricted, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, 10 Table of Contents we are subject to various domestic and international risks and uncertainties, including changing social conditions and uncertainties relating to the current and future political climate. Changes in policy resulting from the current political environment, including fluctuations in global currencies, could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and the level of business activity of the defense industry or other market segments in which we participate. This may reduce our customers’ demand for our products and/or depress pricing of those products, resulting in a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, and cash flows. A substantial amount of revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries and a limited number of customers. Nearly 78% of our current annual revenue is derived from the commercial aerospace and defense industries. Of this amount, Boeing, through multiple contracts with various company subsidiaries covering varying periods, accounted for approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales in 2012. Within those industries are a relatively small number of consumers of titanium products. Those industries have historically been highly cyclical, resulting in the potential for sudden and dramatic changes in expected production and spending that, as a partner in the supply chain, can negatively impact our operational plans and, ultimately, the demand for our products and services. In addition, many of our customers are dependent on the commercial airline industry which has shown to be subject to significant economic and political challenges due to threats or acts of terrorism, rising or volatile fuel costs, pandemics, or other outbreaks of infectious diseases, aggressive competition, global economic slowdown, and other factors. Further, new aerospace and defense platforms under which we have a contract to supply our products may be subject to production delays which affect the timing of the delivery of our products for such platforms. Any one or combination of these factors could occur suddenly and result in a reduction or cancellation in orders of new airplanes and parts which could have an adverse impact on our business. Neither we nor our customers may be able to project or plan in a timely manner for the impact of these events. Continued U.S. budget deficits could result in significant defense spending cuts and/or reductions in defense programs, including the JSF program. Some of our customers are particularly sensitive to the level of government spending on defense-related products. Government programs are dependent upon the continued availability of appropriations, which are approved on an annual basis. Sudden reductions in defense spending could occur due to economic or political changes, such as the impact of sequestration, which could result in a downturn in demand for defense-related titanium products. Further, changes to existing defense procurement laws and regulations, such as the domestic preference for specialty metals, could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant amount of our current capital spending and our forecasted revenue is associated with the JSF program. Continued record U.S. Federal budget deficits could result in significant pressure to reduce the annual defense budget, potentially including delays or cancellations of major defense programs. Significant delays in the ramp up of the JSF program, or a reduction in the total number of aircraft produced, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. A significant amount of our future revenue is based on long-term contracts for new aircraft programs. We have signed several long-term contracts in recent years to produce titanium mill products and complex engineered assemblies for several new aircraft programs, including the Boeing 787, the JSF and the Airbus family of aircraft, including the A380, the A350XWB and the A400M military transport. In order to meet the delivery requirements of these contracts, we have invested in significant capital expansion projects. Because of the global economic slowdown and production problems experienced by many of our customers, we have experienced significant delays in these programs. Further delays due to the problems associated with the Boeing 787’s lithium-ion batteries or for other reasons, program cancellations, or a loss of one or more customers associated with these programs, could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations, revenues, cash flows, and financial standing. 11 Table of Contents Integrating acquisitions may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected, which may adversely affect our results and affect adversely the value of our stock following the merger. We have entered into acquisitions that we believe will be beneficial to RTI and its shareholders. The success of the acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating the businesses. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully integrate the businesses in an efficient and effective manner. If we are not able to achieve these objectives within the anticipated time frames, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisitions may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our results of operations, financial position, and cash flow may be adversely affected. Specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the acquisitions into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions include, among others: • integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties and equipment of RTI and acquired businesses; • integrating the sales and information technology systems of RTI and the acquired businesses; and • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the companies. Integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon our results of operations, financial position, and cash flow. In addition, the actual integrations may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integrations may not be realized. Actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than those expected and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses into ours, or to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets may not be recoverable. As of December 31, 2012, we had goodwill of $137.3 million and other intangible assets of $56.5 million. Goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, we review such assets at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, and a variety of other factors. The amount of any impairment is expensed immediately through the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Any future goodwill or other intangible asset impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are dependent on services that are subject to price and availability fluctuations. We often depend on third parties to provide outside material processing services that may be critical to the manufacture of our products. Purchase prices and availability of these services are subject to volatility. At any given time, we may be unable to obtain these critical services on a timely basis, at acceptable prices, or on other acceptable terms, if at all. Further, if an outside processor is unable to produce to required specifications, our additional cost to cure may negatively impact our margins. If we are unable to protect our data and process control systems against data corruption, cyber-based attacks, or network security breaches, we could experience disruption to our operations, the compromise or corruption of confidential information, and/or damage to our reputation, relationship with customers, or physical assets, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. We have in place a number of systems, processes, and practices designed to protect against intentional or unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information or disruption of our operations due 12 Table of Contents to a cyber incident. Despite such efforts, we could be subject to breaches of security systems which may result in unauthorized access, misappropriation, corruption, or disruption of the information we are trying to protect. Security breaches of our data or process control systems, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar breeches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns, or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If we are unable to prevent such security or privacy breaches, our operations could be disrupted or we may suffer loss of reputation, financial loss, property damage, and other regulatory penalties because of lost or misappropriated information. Furthermore, our customers are increasingly imposing more stringent contractual obligations on us relating to our information security protections. If we are unable to maintain protections and processes at a level commensurate with that required by our large customers, it could negatively affect our relationships with those customers and harm our business. Fluctuations in our income tax obligations and effective income tax rate may result in volatility of our earnings and stock price. We are subject to income taxes in many U.S. and certain foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate (calculated by application of generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”)) in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted by changes in the jurisdictional mix and level of earnings in the various jurisdictions in which we are subject to income taxes. As a result, there could be ongoing variability period to period in our income tax rates and reported net income. We may be affected by our ability to successfully expand our operations in a timely and cost effective manner. In connection with several of our long-term commercial contracts, we have undertaken several major capital expansion projects which are currently estimated to continue through 2012. Our inability to successfully complete the construction of these facilities in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our undertaking of these significant initiatives places a significant demand on management, financial, and operational resources. Our success in these projects will depend upon the ability of key financial and operational management to ensure the necessary internal and external resources are in place to properly complete and operate these facilities. The demand for our products and services may be adversely affected by demand for our customers’ products and services. Our business is substantially derived from titanium mill products and fabricated metal parts, which are primarily used by our customers as components in the manufacture of their products. The ability or inability to meet our financial expectations could be directly impacted by our customers’ abilities or inabilities to meet their own financial expectations. A continued downturn in demand for our customers’ products and services could occur for reasons beyond their control such as unforeseen spending constraints, competitive pressures, rising prices, the inability to contain costs, and other domestic as well as global economic, environmental or political factors. A continued slowdown in demand by, or complete loss of business from, these customers could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position, including, but not limited to, impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets, which could be material. We may be subject to competitive pressures. The titanium metals industry is highly-competitive on a worldwide basis. Our competitors are located primarily in the U.S., Japan, Russia, Europe, and China. Our Russian competitor, in particular, has significantly greater capacity than us and others in our industry. Additionally, our industry has recently seen rapid consolidation, including the PCP acquisition of Titanium Metals Corp., and Primus International, Inc., and the ATI acquisition of Ladish Co., Inc. Not only do we face competition for a limited number of customers with other producers of titanium products, but we also must compete with producers of other generally less expensive materials of construction including stainless steel, nickel-based high temperature and corrosion resistant alloys, and composites. 13 Table of Contents Our competitors could experience more favorable operating conditions than us including lower raw materials costs, more favorable labor agreements, or other factors which could provide them with competitive cost advantages in their ability to provide goods and services. Changes in costs or other factors related to the production and supply of titanium mill products compared to costs or other factors related to the production and supply of other types of materials of construction may negatively impact our business and the industry as a whole. New competitive forces unknown to us today could also emerge which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. Our foreign competitors in particular may have the ability to offer goods and services to our customers at more favorable prices due to advantageous economic, environmental, political, or other factors. We may experience a lack of supply of raw materials at costs that provide us with acceptable margin levels. The raw materials required for the production of titanium mill products (primarily titanium sponge and scrap) are acquired from a number of domestic and foreign suppliers. Although we have long-term contracts in place for the procurement of certain amounts of raw material, we cannot guarantee that our suppliers can fulfill their contractual obligations. Our suppliers may be adversely impacted by events within or outside of their control that may adversely affect our business operations. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate amounts of raw materials from other suppliers in the event that our primary suppliers are unable to meet our needs. We may experience an increase in prices for raw materials which could have a negative impact on our profit margins if we are unable to adequately increase product pricing, and we may not be able to project the impact that an increase in costs may cause in a timely manner. We may be contractually obligated to supply products to our customers at price levels that do not result in our expected margins due to unanticipated increases in the costs of raw materials. We may experience dramatic increases in demand and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain adequate levels of raw materials at prices that are within acceptable cost parameters in order to fulfill that demand. We are subject to changes in product pricing. The titanium industry is highly cyclical. Consequently, excess supply and competition may periodically result in fluctuations in the prices at which we are able to sell certain products. Price reductions may have a negative impact on our operating results. In addition, our ability to implement price increases is dependent on market conditions, often beyond our control. Given the long manufacturing lead times for certain products, the realization of financial benefits from increased prices may be delayed. We may experience a shortage in the supply of energy or an increase in energy costs to operate our plants. We own twenty-six natural gas wells which provide some but not all of the non-electrical energy required by our Niles, Ohio operations. Because our operations are reliant on energy sources from outside suppliers, we may experience significant increases in electricity and natural gas prices, unavailability of electrical power, natural gas, or other resources due to natural disasters, interruptions in energy supplies due to equipment failure or other causes, or the inability to extend expiring energy supply contracts on favorable economical terms. We may not be able to recover the carrying value of our long-lived assets, which could require us to record asset impairment charges. As of December 31, 2012, we had net property, plant, and equipment of $376.0 million. We operate in a highly competitive and highly cyclical industry. In addition, we have invested heavily in new machinery and facilities in order to win new long-term supply agreements related to next-generation aircraft such as the Boeing 787, the Airbus family of commercial aircraft, and the JSF program. If we were unable to realize the benefits under these agreements, for whatever reason, we could be required to record material asset and asset related impairment charges in future periods which could adversely affect our results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Many of our products must be manufactured to stringent quality standards and are used in critical aircraft components and medical devices. Given the critical nature of many of the end uses for our products, including specifically their use in critical rotating parts of gas turbine engines and their use in medical devices, a quality issue could have a material adverse impact on our reputation in the marketplace. While we maintain product liability insurance, including aircraft grounding liability, of $500 million, should a quality or warranty claim exceed this coverage, or should our coverage be denied, such liability could have a material adverse impact on Consolidated Financial Statements. Healthcare Legislation may impact our business. In March 2010, comprehensive health care reform legislation under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and Health Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act (the “Act”) was passed and signed into law. Among other things, the Act includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. Provisions of the Act become effective at various dates over the next several years. The Department of Health and Human Services, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the Department of Labor and the Treasury Department have issued and are continuing to issue the necessary enabling regulations and guidance with respect to the Act. Due to the breadth and complexity of the Act, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, and the phased-in nature of the implementation, it is difficult to predict the overall impact of the Act on our business. Depending on how and when the provisions of the Act are implemented, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be harmed by strikes or work stoppages. Approximately 354 hourly, clerical and technical employees at our Niles, Ohio facility are represented by the United Steelworkers of America. Our current labor agreement with this union expires June 30, 2018. Approximately 155 hourly employees at our RTI Tradco facility in Washington, Missouri are represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. Our current labor agreement with this union was approved on February 15, 2011, and expires February 19, 2015. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate new bargaining agreements upon expiration of the existing agreements on the same or more favorable terms as the current agreements, or at all, without production interruptions caused by a labor stoppage. If a strike or work stoppage were to occur in connection with the negotiation of a new collective bargaining agreement, or as a result of a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations. We operate subsidiaries and conduct business with suppliers and customers in foreign countries which exposes us to risks associated with international business activities. We could be significantly impacted by those risks, which include the potential for volatile economic and labor conditions, political instability, expropriation, and changes in taxes, tariffs, and other regulatory costs. We are also exposed to and can be adversely affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. Dollar against other foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian Dollar, the Euro, and the British Pound. Although we are operating primarily in countries with relatively stable economic and political climates, there can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by those risks inherent to international operations. Our success depends largely on our ability to attract and retain key personnel. Much of our future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including members of our executive team, management, materials engineers and other technical specialists, and staff 15 Table of Contents positions. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to perform until suitable replacements are found. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. The demand for our products and services may be affected by factors outside of our control. War, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues including pandemics, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce by creating economic and political uncertainties that may have a negative impact on the global economy as a whole. Our business operations, as well as our suppliers’ and customers’ business operations, are subject to interruption by those factors as well as other events beyond our control such as governmental regulations, fire, power shortages, and others. Although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products to our customers or to receive materials from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by these events. We may be affected by our ability or inability to obtain financing. Our ability to access the traditional bank or capital markets in the future for additional financing, if needed, and our future financial performance could be influenced by our ability to meet current covenant requirements associated with our existing credit agreement, our credit rating, or other factors. We are subject to, and could incur, substantial costs and liabilities under environmental, health, and safety laws. We own and/or operate a number of manufacturing and other facilities. Our operations and properties are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Some environmental laws can impose liability for all of the costs of a contaminated site without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. We could incur substantial costs, including fines, penalties, civil and criminal sanctions, investigation and cleanup costs, natural resource damages and third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations or the environmental permits required for our operations. Many of our properties have a history of industrial operations, including the use and storage of hazardous materials, and we are involved in remedial actions relating to some of our current and former properties and, along with other responsible parties, third-party sites. We have established reserves for such matters where appropriate. The ultimate costs of cleanup, and our share of such costs, however, are difficult to accurately predict and could exceed current reserves. We also could incur significant additional costs at these or other sites if additional contamination is discovered, additional cleanup obligations are imposed and/or the participation or financial viability of other responsible parties changes in the future. In addition, while the cost of complying with environmental laws and regulations has not had a material adverse impact on our operations in the past, such laws and regulations are subject to frequent modifications and revisions, and more stringent compliance requirements, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements, may be imposed in the future on us or the industries in which we operate. As a result, we could incur significant additional costs complying with environmental laws and regulations in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 16 Table of Contents 