Item 1A RISK FACTORS This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of factors both in and out of our control, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this report. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently 10 Table of Contents deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. We have implemented a substantial restructuring of our operations, which may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. In May 2011, a subsidiary of Astellas Pharma Inc., or Astellas, acquired our interests in Perseid Therapeutics LLC, or Perseid, a former majority-owned subsidiary that included substantially all of our research and development operations and personnel. The acquisition of Perseid by Astellas largely completed a multi-year strategic process to restructure our operations, a process that also included the sale or distribution of various other assets, such as our vaccines assets, the patent rights relating to the MolecularBreeding™ directed evolution platform, and substantially all of the shares of Codexis, Inc. common stock we held. As a result, it may be difficult to evaluate our business and future prospects or to assess future operating performance on the basis of historical operating performance. Our future prospects may be highly dependent on our ability to consummate a strategic transaction for the further development of our MAXY-G34 product candidate or a strategic business combination or other transaction for our company. Our current non-financial assets primarily consist of our MAXY-G34 product candidate, a granulocyte colony stimulating factor, or G-CSF. We are currently evaluating the potential further development of our MAXY-G34 program for chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and acute radiation syndrome, or ARS, and continue to evaluate potential strategic options for our company as a whole, including a strategic business combination, other transaction or a wind down of the company. We may also evaluate or make additional cash distributions to our stockholders of a portion of our cash resources and evaluate the potential acquisition of additional businesses, assets, technologies, or products or we may pursue other strategic transactions. Our financial assets currently consist of $159.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2011 and we remain eligible for a contingent payment of up to $30.0 million from Bayer related to the sale of our hematology assets to Bayer in July 2008. However, there can be no assurance that we can commence or successfully continue the further development of our MAXY-G34 program for any indication, that we will make any additional cash distributions to our stockholders, that we will pursue or be able to successfully consummate any particular strategic transaction, or that we will receive any portion of the event based payment from Bayer. In addition, we may implement a course of action or consummate a transaction that yields unexpected results that adversely affects our business and decreases the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. The process of continuing to evaluate, and potentially executing, one or more of these strategic options may be very costly and time-consuming and may distract our management and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have adverse effects on our business. As a result, there can be no assurances that any particular course of action, business arrangement or transaction, or series of transactions, will be pursued, successfully consummated or lead to increased stockholder value. Furthermore, we have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant costs related to the execution of our strategic plan, such as legal and accounting fees and expenses and other related charges, and we may also incur additional unanticipated expenses in connection with this strategic plan. A considerable portion of these costs will be incurred regardless of whether any such course of action is implemented or transaction is completed. These expenses will decrease the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. The prospects for further development and commercialization of our MAXY-G34 product candidate are highly uncertain. We continue to evaluate the further clinical development and potential commercialization of MAXY-G34 for the treatment of both chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and ARS. However, we previously suspended manufacturing and development activities for our MAXY-G34 product candidate for the treatment of 11 Table of Contents chemotherapy-induced neutropenia in 2008 due to the potential cost of such development and have not identified a suitable partner or other source of external funding for development of this program. Our suspension of manufacturing and development activities will likely have an adverse impact on the timeline for any potential commercialization of MAXY-G34 for chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, which will likely make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement to fund the further development of this product candidate and could limit the commercial potential of MAXY-G34, if commercialized. The existence of any issued patents and pending patent applications that claim certain G-CSF compositions and their use, such as the U.S. patent issued to Amgen in 2008 with certain claims to mutated G-CSF molecules, could also make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement for MAXY-G34. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement relating to our MAXY-G34 product candidate could further delay or materially impact the ability to commercialize MAXY-G34 and may also absorb significant management time. Accordingly, there can be no assurances that we will enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development of MAXY-G34 for the chemotherapy-induced neutropenia indication. Even if we are able to enter into a collaborative or other arrangement with a third party to fund the further development and commercialization of MAXY-G34 and this product candidate successfully completes clinical trials and is approved for marketing in the United States or other countries, it will need to compete with other G-CSF drugs then on the market. The ability of MAXY-G34 to be successful in the market will depend on a variety of factors, including, for example, whether MAXY-G34 is clinically differentiated from other G-CSF drugs, the scope and limitations of the label approved by regulators for the use of MAXY-G34, the price of MAXY-G34, reimbursement decisions by third parties with regard to MAXY-G34, the approval and sale of any generic or bioequivalent forms of G-CSF products, such as Neulasta® and Neupogen®, in the United States, and the effort and success of marketing activities undertaken with regard to MAXY-G34. We have also been seeking the government funding for the development of this program for the ARS indication and, in May 2011, we submitted a proposal to the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority, or BARDA, for the development of this product candidate as a potential medical countermeasure for ARS. However, in November 2011, our proposal was rejected by BARDA primarily due to BARDA’s availability of funding. Although BARDA indicated that our MAXY-G34 program would be reconsidered by BARDA if the circumstances related to its funding availability changed in the future, there can be no assurances that the circumstances related to BARDA’s funding availability will change, that BARDA will open a future solicitation applicable to the MAXY-G34 program or ARS, or that we would submit a proposal for, or be awarded a contract under, any potential future BARDA solicitation or any other government funded program. The rejection of our proposal by BARDA significantly impaired our ability to successfully commence or continue any further development of our MAXY-G34 program or realize any value from this program. Absent a collaborative or other arrangement, we will further delay or cease development of MAXY-G34 for this indication, which could adversely affect our ability to realize any value from this program. If we are not able to consummate a strategic transaction for our MAXY-G34 product candidate or our company, we may discontinue the development of MAXY-G34 and fail to realize any value from this program, and we may decide to wind down our operations. Our current focus is to create value from our MAXY-G34 program for our stockholders, either through the potential further development of the product candidate for one or both indications, or through a sale, licensing, partnering or other transaction involving the program. We also continue to evaluate potential strategic options for our company as a whole, including a strategic business combination or other transaction. However, each such strategy is subject to numerous risks and we may fail to properly execute our chosen strategy. If we are unable, or choose not to, further develop our MAXY-G34 program or consummate a strategic transaction for this program or for our company as a whole, we may discontinue the development of MAXY-G34 and fail to realize any value from this program. We may also choose to wind down the company, which may be a lengthy process, yield 12 Table of Contents unexpected results and delay any potential distributions to our stockholders. Such process may also require the further expenditure of company resources, which would decrease the amount of resources available for distributions to our stockholders. If we do not retain key employees, our ability to maintain our ongoing operations or execute a potential strategic option could be impaired. As of March 1, 2012, we had eight employees and we will rely heavily on the services of our existing employees to manage our ongoing operations and execute our strategic plans. The loss of services from any of our existing employees could substantially disrupt our operations. To be successful and achieve our objectives under our revised corporate strategy, we must retain qualified personnel. Our recent restructurings and the continued review of our strategic options may create continued uncertainty for our employees and this uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees and to hire new talent necessary to maintain our ongoing operations or to execute additional potential strategic options, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our current strategy and any changes to this strategy could place significant strain on our resources and our ability to maintain our ongoing operations. We may also be required to rely more heavily on temporary or part-time employees, third party contractors and consultants to assist with managing our operations. In particular, we have relationships with consultants who assist us in formulating and executing our research, development, regulatory, clinical strategies, as well as certain operational matters. These consultants are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. We will have only limited control over the activities of these consultants and can generally expect these individuals to devote only limited time to our activities. Failure of any of these persons to devote sufficient time and resources to our business could harm our business. In addition, these advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products that may compete with our products. Accordingly, we may fail to maintain our ongoing operations or execute our strategic plan if we are unable to retain or hire qualified personnel or to manage our employees and consultants effectively. Any attempts to grow our business could have an adverse effect on the Company. Because of our small size, we may need to grow rapidly in order to execute certain strategic options, such as the further development of our MAXY-G34 program or the potential acquisition of additional businesses, assets, technologies, or products. To the extent that rapid growth is necessary, it would place a significant strain on our financial, technical, operational and administrative resources. Such growth would result in increased responsibility for both existing and new management personnel and effective growth management would depend upon our ability to integrate new personnel, expand our operations and to train, motivate and manage our employees. If we were unable to manage growth effectively, our business and our ability to execute a potential strategic option could be materially and adversely affected. We may make additional distributions to our stockholders of a portion of our cash resources, which may restrict our funds available for other actions and negatively affect the market price of our securities. In December 2010, we distributed substantially all of the shares of Codexis, Inc. common stock we held, together with approximately $29.2 million in cash, to our stockholders. In addition, since December 2009, we have repurchased approximately 12.2 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of approximately $66.3 million, and we are currently conducting a stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to purchase up to an additional $10.0 million of our common stock through December 31, 2012. In addition, given that we continue to have large cash reserves, our board of directors may consider and evaluate additional distributions to our stockholders of a portion of our cash resources in excess of our current and longer term operational requirements, although none are currently contemplated. Such distributions may be accomplished through cash dividends, stock repurchases or other mechanisms and may be fully or partially taxable depending on the circumstances of such distribution. Any such distribution may not have the effects anticipated by our board of 13 Table of Contents directors and may instead harm the market price and liquidity of our securities. The full implementation of any additional distribution could use a significant portion of our remaining cash reserves, and this use of cash could limit our future flexibility to operate our business, invest in our existing assets, complete acquisitions of businesses or technologies, or pursue other transactions. In addition, the implementation of certain distribution mechanisms, such as stock repurchases, could also result in an increase in the percentage of common stock owned by our existing stockholders, and such increase may trigger disclosure or other regulatory requirements for our larger stockholders. As a result, these stockholders may liquidate a portion of their holdings, which may have a negative impact on the market price of our securities. Furthermore, repurchases of stock may affect the trading of our common stock to the extent we fail to satisfy continued-listing requirements of the exchange on which our stock trades, including those based on numbers of holders or public float of our common stock. Under certain circumstances, stock repurchases could impact our ability to utilize certain tax benefits, including net operating losses. Any stock repurchases would also reduce the number of shares of our common stock in the market, which may impact the continuation of an active trading market in our stock, causing a negative impact on the market price of our stock. Any future development of our MAXY-G34 product candidate, which is based on modifications to a natural human protein, may be subject to substantial delays, increased development costs, reduced market potential for any resulting product or the termination of the development program, which could adversely affect our business. We have designed our MAXY-G34 product candidate to confer what we believe will be improved biological properties as compared to currently marketed products. As a result, MAXY-G34 differs from currently marketed drugs in ways that we expect will be beneficial. However, the impact of the modifications we have made may not be fully apparent in initial testing and may only be discovered in later-stage testing. Such altered properties may render MAXY-G34 unsuitable or less beneficial than expected for one or more diseases or medical conditions of possible interest or make the product candidate unsuitable for further development. For example, the product candidate may be found to be more immunogenic than the corresponding natural human proteins or demonstrate undesirable pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic properties. This may lead to the redirection of the development strategy which could result in substantial delays, increased development costs, decreased likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval, and reduced market potential for any resulting product. This also could result in the termination of the development of the product candidate. In either case, such results could adversely affect our business. In addition, we or a future licensee or collaborator, if any, may determine that MAXY-G34 or any future preclinical or clinical product candidates or programs do not have sufficient therapeutic or commercial potential to warrant further advancement for a particular indication or all indications, and may elect to terminate a program for such indications or product candidates at any time. Our assessment of the commercial potential for a product may change significantly from the time when we invest in discovery and development to the time when the product either reaches the market or reaches clinical development stages that require investment at risk. Commercial potential can change due to many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, the qualitative and quantitative properties of medical reimbursement schemes at the time, the legal status for sale of biologic generics (i.e. bioequivalent protein drugs, generic biologicals and biogenerics), and the financial status of potential partner companies. As commercial potential decreases, the ability or interest of other parties to share the costs of further development of our products may decrease, thus precluding advancement of our products. Furthermore, we may conclude that a product candidate is not differentiated in a meaningful way from existing products, or that the costs of seeking to establish that a product candidate is differentiated would be prohibitive, or that the market size for a differentiated product with the attributes of a particular product candidate does not justify the expense and risk of further development. If we terminate our MAXY-G34 program, or any potential future preclinical or clinical program in which we have invested significant resources, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, as we will have expended resources on a program that will not provide a return on our investment and we will have missed the opportunity to have allocated those resources to potentially more productive uses. 14 Table of Contents If we engage in any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may potentially face numerous risks that could adversely affect our business and operations. As part of our ongoing strategic evaluation, we may acquire additional businesses, assets, technologies, or products in the future if appropriate opportunities become available. In connection with any future acquisitions, we could: • use a significant portion of our cash resources to fund and manage the acquisitions; • issue additional equity securities which would dilute our current stockholders; • incur substantial debt to fund the acquisitions; or • assume significant liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies or products, unanticipated costs and other liabilities, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses, adverse effects on existing business relationships with current and/or prospective collaborators, customers and/or suppliers, risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and potential loss of key employees. We do not have extensive experience in managing the integration process, and we may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, assets, products, technologies, or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. The integration or management process could divert management time from focusing on operating our business, result in a decline in employee morale and cause retention issues to arise from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business. Acquisitions may also require us to record goodwill and non-amortizable intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing on a regular basis and potential periodic impairment charges, incur amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, and incur large and immediate write offs and restructuring and other related expenses, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may acquire companies that have insufficient internal financial controls, which could impair our ability to integrate the acquired company and adversely impact our financial reporting. If we fail in our integration or management efforts with respect to any of our acquisitions, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, any acquisition of a business, asset, technology or product could require us to use significantly more cash reserves than initially expected or in excess of the cash reserves actually required for our current and longer term operational requirements, and this use of cash could limit our future flexibility to operate our business, invest in our existing assets, complete acquisitions of businesses or technologies, or pursue other transactions. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company. We currently expect that our operating expenses, including costs associated with operating as a public company, will exceed our revenues, if any, for the foreseeable future. In addition, we may incur increased expenses in connection with any research and development activities for our MAXY-G34 program and in connection with any potential strategic transaction for the program or our company. These operating expenses will decrease the remaining cash available for use in our business or the execution of our strategic plan. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could harm our competitive position. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents and maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our MAXY-G34 program and any future products in the United States and other countries. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, competitors may be able to erode our competitive advantage. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights in these foreign countries. These problems can be caused by, for example, a lack of rules and processes allowing for meaningfully defending intellectual property rights. 15 Table of Contents We will be able to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our patent positions, are often uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. We have applied for patents covering MAXY-G34 as we deem appropriate. However, we may not obtain patents on all inventions for which we seek patents, and any patents we obtain may be challenged and may be narrowed in scope or extinguished as a result of such challenges. Our existing patents and any future patents we obtain may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. Enforcement of our patents against infringers could require us to expend significant amounts with no assurance that we would be successful in any litigation. Others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products or design around our patented technologies or products. In addition, we may fail to effectively prosecute or maintain certain patent rights or others may challenge or invalidate our patents, in which case our patents may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information. These measures may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose or misuse our proprietary information, and we may not be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Litigation or other proceedings or third party claims of intellectual property infringement could require us to spend time and money and could require us to shut down some of our operations. Our ability to develop products depends in part on not infringing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties, and not breaching any licenses that we have entered into with regard to our technologies and products. In particular, others have obtained patents, and have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications that may issue as patents that cover genes or gene fragments or corresponding proteins or peptides that we may wish to utilize to develop, manufacture and commercialize our product candidate. There are often multiple patents owned by third parties that cover particular proteins and related nucleic acids that are of interest to us in the development of our product candidate. To the extent that these patents, or patents that may issue in the future, cover methods or compositions that we wish to use in developing, manufacturing or commercializing our product candidate, and such use by us or on our behalf would constitute infringement of an issued valid patent claim, we would need to obtain a license from the proprietor of the relevant patent rights, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our efforts to develop an improved, next-generation protein pharmaceutical could lead to allegations of patent infringement by the parties that hold patents covering other versions of such protein or methods of making and using such protein. In addition, third parties that do not have patents that currently cover our activities may obtain such patents in the future and then claim that our activities or product candidate infringe these patents. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of the time and attention of management and technical personnel in defending ourselves against any of these claims or enforcing our patents or other intellectual property rights against others. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell products. In addition, in the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all. In that event, we could encounter delays in product introductions while we attempt to develop alternative methods or products, or be required to cease commercializing affected products. In particular, the existence of any issued patents and pending patent applications that claim certain G-CSF compositions and their use, such as the U.S. patent issued to Amgen in 2008 with certain claims to mutated G-CSF molecules (Patent No. 7,381,804), could make it more difficult for us to secure a collaborative or other arrangement for our MAXY-G34 product candidate or to commercialize or otherwise realize any value from this 16 Table of Contents product candidate. While we are currently engaged in an inter partes reexamination of the Amgen patent with the U.S. Patent Office, or PTO, and the PTO has issued a right of appeal notice to Amgen maintaining its rejection of the claims in the Amgen patent, Amgen is appealing this decision and any final ruling by the PTO may be appealed to the U.S. federal courts. As a result, there can be no assurances that we will ultimately prevail or do so in a timely manner, or that we will be successful in the development, commercialization or other utilization of the MAXY-G34 program, even if we are ultimately successful in this reexamination process. Any action we take to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, including litigation, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical personnel. Furthermore, the outcome of any action we take to protect our rights may not be resolved in our favor. Codexis acquired technology rights from us that we previously licensed to third parties and we may be subject to litigation if these rights are not effectively prosecuted, maintained or protected by Codexis. In October 2010, we sold substantially all of the intellectual property rights and certain other assets relating to the MolecularBreeding™ directed evolution platform to Codexis. The intellectual property portfolio we sold to Codexis will continue to be subject to existing exclusive and nonexclusive licenses that we previously granted to third parties under agreements that we will remain a party to. These existing license agreements, the related sublicenses to third party technologies and the license agreement with Codexis, and the interplay between those agreements, are highly complex and rely on highly technical definitions to delineate permitted and restricted activities. As a result of this complexity, the agreements may be subject to differing interpretations by the counterparties that could lead to disputes or litigation, including for alleged breaches or claims that our activities or the activities of a third party are not covered by the scope of the licenses. Codexis, as the owner of these intellectual property rights, has the right to control prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of these patent rights. If Codexis or an acquirer of Codexis chooses not to enforce the intellectual property rights on which these licensees rely, or enforces those rights ineffectively and has them invalidated, the ability of these licensees to effectively use its licensed rights may be adversely impacted. While we have certain rights to continue prosecution or maintenance of patent rights that Codexis chooses to abandon, we may be unable to exercise these rights effectively. While Codexis is obligated to comply with the terms of these agreements and to indemnify us for certain losses under these agreements, any action or omission by Codexis that causes us to breach any of our obligations under these agreements may subject us to liability and, to the extent indemnification by Codexis is not available, we may be required to pay damages to such third party. Any such litigation may divert management time from focusing on business operations and could cause us to spend significant amounts of money. If such litigation were to be decided adversely to us, we could be required to pay monetary damages. Our manufacturing strategy, which relies on third-party manufacturers, exposes us to additional risks. We do not currently have the resources, facilities or experience to manufacture MAXY-G34 or any future product candidates or potential products ourselves. Completion of any clinical trials or other studies and any commercialization or other utilization of our products will require access to, or development of, manufacturing facilities that meet U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, standards or other regulatory requirements to manufacture a sufficient supply of our potential products. We would depend on a third party for the scale up and manufacture of our MAXY-G34 product candidate for any preclinical or clinical purposes. If our third party manufacturer is unable to manufacture preclinical or clinical supplies in a timely manner, or is unable or unwilling to satisfy our needs or the requirements of the FDA or other regulatory requirements, it could delay clinical trials, regulatory submissions and development, commercialization or other utilization of MAXY-G34 or any future potential products, entail higher costs and possibly result in our being unable to sell our products. In addition, technical problems or other manufacturing delays could delay the advancement of potential products into preclinical or clinical trials, delay or prevent us from achieving development milestones under a collaborative agreement or result in the termination of development of MAXY-G34 or any future product candidates, adversely affecting our revenues and product development timetable, which in turn could adversely affect our business and our stock price. 17 Table of Contents There are a limited number of contract manufacturers that are suitable for the manufacture of protein pharmaceuticals in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) requirements, and there is often limited access to such facilities. If we are unable to enter into agreements with qualified manufacturers that will provide us with sufficient supply of a product candidate in a timely manner and at an acceptable cost, the development, commercialization or other utilization of the potential product could be delayed, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, failure of any third party manufacturers or us to comply with applicable regulations, including pre- or post-approval inspections and the current GMP requirements of the FDA or other comparable regulatory agencies, could result in sanctions being imposed on us. These sanctions could include fines, injunctions, civil penalties, failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of a product, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. The manufacturing of our MAXY-G34 product candidate presents technological, logistical and regulatory risks, each of which may adversely affect our business. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of pharmaceuticals, and, in particular, biologicals, are technologically and logistically complex and heavily regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities. The manufacturing and manufacturing process development of our MAXY-G34 product candidate presents many risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • before we can obtain approval of any of our product candidate for the treatment of a particular disease or condition, we must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA and other governmental authorities that the drug manufactured for commercial use is comparable to the drug manufactured for clinical trials and that the manufacturing facility complies with applicable laws and regulations; • it may not be technically feasible to scale up an existing manufacturing process to meet demand or such scale-up may take longer than anticipated; and • failure to comply with strictly enforced GMP regulations and similar foreign standards may result in delays in product approval or withdrawal of an approved product from the market. Any of these factors could delay any preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory submissions, commercialization or other development of MAXY-G34 or any future product candidates, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell any products. We have relied on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and our clinical trials. If we continue the development of MAXY-G34 or any future product we may acquire and these third parties do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or we may be delayed in doing so. We do not currently have the resources, personnel or facilities to independently conduct preclinical studies or clinical trials for our product candidates, and therefore have relied on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, academic institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct many of our preclinical studies, assist us in designing our clinical trials, prepare documents for submission to regulatory authorities, obtain regulatory approval to conduct clinical trials, enroll qualified patients, conduct and maintain our clinical trials, and analyze the results of such trials. We are responsible for confirming that our preclinical studies are conducted in accordance with applicable regulations and that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. The FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices, or GLP, for conducting and recording the results of our preclinical studies and good clinical practices for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials, to assure that data and reported results are accurate and that the clinical trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities. 18 Table of Contents If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, do not meet expected deadlines, fail to comply with the FDA’s GLP regulations, do not conduct clinical trials in accordance with the approved protocol and regulatory requirements, or are unable to manage the conduct of any clinical trials effectively in compliance with FDA and other regulatory requirements, it could adversely impact the results obtained in such preclinical studies or clinical trials or require us to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties, all of which could extend, delay or terminate the progress or completion of preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory submissions and commercialization or other use of MAXY-G34 or any potential future products. In any such case, we may be affected by increased costs and delays or both, which may harm our business. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate and any potential future product candidates could take a long time to complete all phases of development, may fail during any stage of development, or may never gain approval, which could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our product candidates. The conduct of preclinical studies, clinical trials and other studies for a single product candidate is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process and typically requires years to complete. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate and any potential future product candidates may produce undesirable toxicities and adverse effects in preclinical studies. Such toxicities or adverse effects could delay or prevent the filing of an IND with respect to such product candidate or potential product candidates. In clinical trials, administering any of our product candidates to humans may produce undesirable toxicities or side effects. These toxicities or side effects could interrupt, delay, suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates and could result in the FDA or other regulatory authorities denying approval of our product candidates for any or all targeted indications. Indications of potential adverse effects or toxicities which may occur in clinical trials and which we believe are not significant during the course of such trials may later turn out to actually constitute serious adverse effects or toxicities when a drug has been used in large populations or for extended periods of time. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate previously completed a Phase IIa clinical trial in breast cancer patients for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and although MAXY-G34 has demonstrated desirable properties in preclinical testing and in early clinical testing, the results from preclinical testing in vitro and animal models, as well as early clinical trials, often are not predictive of results obtained in larger later stage clinical trials. As a result, there can be no assurances that clinical trials or other studies of MAXY-G34 or any future product candidates will be completed or produce sufficient safety and efficacy data necessary to obtain regulatory approval. In addition, the timing of the commencement, continuation or completion of clinical trials or other studies may be subject to significant delays, or a clinical trial may be suspended or delayed by us, a collaborator, the FDA or other foreign governmental agencies for various reasons, including: • deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials; • negative or inconclusive results from the clinical trials that necessitate additional clinical studies; • difficulties or delays in identifying and enrolling patients who meet trial eligibility criteria; • delays in obtaining or maintaining required approvals from institutions, review boards or other reviewing entities at clinical sites; • inadequate supply or deficient quality of product candidate materials necessary for the conduct of the clinical trials; • the occurrence of unacceptable toxicities or properties or unforeseen adverse events, especially as compared to currently approved drugs intended to treat the same indications; • our lack of financial resources to continue the development of a product candidate; • future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy or the policy of foreign regulatory agencies during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review; or • other reasons that are internal to the business of a collaborative partner, which it may not share with us. 19 Table of Contents As a result of these risks and other factors, we may conduct lengthy and expensive preclinical studies, clinical trials or other studies of MAXY-G34 and any future product candidates, only to learn that a particular product candidate has failed to demonstrate sufficient safety or efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approval for one or more therapeutic indications, has failed to demonstrate relevant differentiation of our products from currently marketed products, does not offer therapeutic or other improvements compared to other marketed drugs, has unforeseen adverse events or does not otherwise demonstrate sufficient potential to make the commercialization or other utilization of the product worthwhile. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials or animal model studies, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing our product candidates could severely harm our business. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate and any potential future products are subject to a lengthy and uncertain regulatory process and may never gain approval. If our potential products are not approved, we or our collaborative partners will not be able to commercialize those products. The FDA must approve any therapeutic product before it can be marketed in the United States. Other countries also require approvals from regulatory authorities comparable to the FDA before products can be marketed in the applicable country. Before we can file a biologic license application (BLA) with the FDA or other regulatory entity, the product candidate must undergo extensive testing which can take many years and require substantial expenditures. Data obtained from such testing may be susceptible to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Regulatory approval of a BLA is never guaranteed, and the approval process may take several years and is extremely expensive. The FDA and other regulatory agencies also have substantial discretion in the drug approval process. Despite the time and expense exerted, failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that would cause us to abandon trials or to repeat or perform additional such trials. The number and focus of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required for approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies varies depending on the drug candidate, the disease or condition that the drug candidate is designed to address, and the regulations applicable to any particular drug candidate. The FDA and other regulatory agencies can delay, limit or deny approval of a drug candidate for many reasons, including: • a drug candidate may not be safe or effective; • regulatory officials may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials sufficient; • the FDA and other regulatory agencies might not approve our third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities; or • the FDA or other regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even if we receive regulatory approval to sell a product, the approved label for a product may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market a product. For example, even if MAXY-G34 is further developed for the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia and approved by the FDA, if we are not able to obtain broad labeling for this product allowing approved use with multiple chemotherapy regimens for multiple cancers, MAXY-G34 may not be adopted by hospital formularies or otherwise have limited commercial success which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Further, once regulatory approval is obtained, a marketed product and its manufacturer are subject to continued review, and discovery of previously unknown problems or adverse events associated with an approved product or the discovery of previously unknown problems with the manufacturer may result in restrictions on the product, the manufacturer or the manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the product from the market. In certain countries, regulatory agencies also set or approve prices. During the period while we are engaged in product development, the policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory entities may change and additional government laws or regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not obtain approval of our products or be permitted to market our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative 20 Table of Contents action, either in the United States or abroad. In this regard, legislation has been proposed in the United States but not yet enacted into law that would define a regulatory approval process for protein drugs that are similar to already marketed protein drugs. We may seek to enter into arrangements to develop and commercialize our MAXY-G34 product candidate or any future products. These arrangements, if secured, may not be successful. Since we may not possess the resources necessary to develop and commercialize products, or the resources to complete all approval processes that may be required for these potential products, we may seek to enter into collaborative or other arrangements to fund the development of MAXY-G34 or any potential future product candidates for specific indications and to develop and commercialize potential products. We currently have no existing collaborations or other arrangements and if we are unable to enter into any new arrangements, or if existing or future arrangements are not maintained, our MAXY-G34 product candidate or any potential products may not be commercialized. Any strategic partnerships or collaborations with pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies or arrangements with other third parties we may establish will be subject to a number of risks. We have limited or no control over the resources that a third party may devote to the development and commercialization of our potential products. Such third party may elect not to develop potential products arising out of a collaborative or other arrangement or not devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Further, such third party may not perform its obligations as expected and may delay the development or commercialization of a product candidate, terminate its agreement with us, or breach or otherwise fail to conduct its activities successfully and in a timely manner. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our potential products. In addition, such third party may market or otherwise seek products intended to treat the medical conditions that our product candidates are planned to be used to treat, and could become our competitors in the future. For example, a collaborator could develop and commercialize competing products, fail to rapidly develop our product candidates, fail to obtain timely regulatory approvals for product commercialization, terminate their agreements with us prematurely, or fail to devote sufficient resources to allow the development and commercialization of our products. Any of these circumstances could harm our product development efforts. We have limited ability to prevent actions by any such third party that could have any adverse impact on the development and commercialization of our related product candidates. Other biological products may compete with our products. If approved for sale by regulatory authorities for chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, our MAXY-G34 product candidate would likely compete with already approved earlier-generation products based on the same protein. In addition, as the patent protection for such earlier-generation protein products expires, we expect that additional products with amino acid sequences identical or substantially similar to those of the earlier-generation protein products that have lost patent protection will also enter the marketplace and compete with such earlier generation protein products and our products. This competition may be intense, with success determined by product attributes, price and marketing power. The availability of such similar products may result in price erosion for all products of the class and could lead to limits on reimbursement for our products by third party payors. If commercialized for chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, we would expect Neulasta® and Neupogen® to compete with MAXY-G34. In addition, given that the limited remaining terms of the patents covering Neulasta® and Neupogen®, we would also expect to face competition from biologic generics (i.e. bioequivalent protein drugs, generic biologicals and biogenerics) and are aware that Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Sandoz International GmbH are currently developing biologic generic G-CSF products to compete in this market. In addition, any approval of biosimilars in the United States or other foreign jurisdiction could result in increased competition for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. 21 Table of Contents Many potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that make ours obsolete. As a company that is focused on the potential development of a next-generation protein therapeutic product, we face, and will continue to face, intense competition from both large and small biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies, that are pursuing competing technologies for modifying proteins. These companies and organizations may develop technologies that are alternatives to our technologies. Further, our competitors in the protein optimization field, including companies that have developed and commercialized prior versions of protein therapeutic products, may be more effective at implementing their technologies to develop commercial products. Some of these competitors have entered into collaborations with leading companies within our target markets to produce commercial products. In addition, therapeutic products that are small molecules may be developed by our competitors that could reduce or displace the market for our protein therapeutic products. Small molecule drugs are often less expensive and easier to administer than protein therapeutics and therefore would have competitive advantages if they were developed and shown to be safe and effective for the indication that our product candidates are targeting. Even if approved by the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory agency, any products that we develop will compete in multiple, highly competitive markets and may fail to achieve market acceptance, which would impair our ability to become profitable. Most of the companies and organizations competing with us in the markets for such products have greater capital resources, research and development and marketing staff and facilities and capabilities, and greater experience in obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing products and marketing. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to develop technologies and products more easily, which would render our products and those of a collaborator obsolete and noncompetitive. In addition, if MAXY-G34 or any of our future drug candidates are approved for commercial sale, they will need to compete with other products intended to treat the same disease, including the marketed versions of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve, and possibly including other variant versions of such drug, and generic bioequivalent or biosimilar versions of such drugs, and small molecule drugs. Such competition may be intense and lead to price reductions for all forms of a particular therapeutic protein. Moreover, any adverse developments related to a currently marketed version of the protein therapeutic drug that we have sought to improve or a generic bioequivalent or biosimilar version of such drug may have a significant adverse impact on the continued development or future commercialization and marketing of our related product candidates and could cause us to change our development plans or discontinue further development of such product candidates. If we are unable to market and commercialize our product successfully, our business would be adversely affected. Drug development is a long, expensive and uncertain process and may not result in the development of any commercially successful products. The development of human therapeutic products is long and uncertain. Most product candidates fail before entering clinical trials or in clinical trials. Moreover, most products that commence clinical trials are not approved for use in humans and never reach the market. In addition, due to the nature of human therapeutic research and development, the expected timing of product development, initiation of clinical trials and the results of such development and clinical trials are uncertain and subject to change at any point. Such uncertainty, which exists even for product candidates that appear promising based on earlier data, may result in research or development delays, clinical trial delays and failures, product candidate failures and delays in regulatory action or approval. Such delays or failures could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our MAXY-G34 product candidate and any future product candidates are subject to the risks of failure inherent in drug development. Preclinical studies may not yield results that would satisfactorily support the filing of an investigational new drug application (IND) with respect to our drug candidates, and the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict the results of clinical trials. Moreover, the available animal models 22 Table of Contents may be unsuitable for assessing our potential products for one or more indications, increasing the risk that animal models may not provide accurate or meaningful data as to the suitability or advantages of our potential products as treatments for the diseases or medical conditions of interest. Similarly, early-stage clinical trials may not predict the results of later-stage clinical trials, including the safety and efficacy profiles of any particular drug candidate. In addition, there can be no assurance that the design of our clinical trials will result in obtaining the desired efficacy data to support regulatory approval. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any foreign regulatory agency, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. The FDA and similar regulatory agencies determine the type and amount of data necessary to obtain approval of any drug candidate, and as a result of new data or changes in the policies or practices of such agencies, the type and amount of data required for approval may change in the period between the start of product development and the completion of clinical trials. Any failure or substantial delay in successfully completing clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval and commercializing our MAXY-G34 product candidate or any future product candidates could severely harm our business. If we or a collaborator receives regulatory approval for MAXY-G34 or any potential future drug candidates, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, and we may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our potential drugs. Any regulatory approvals that we or a collaborator receive for one of our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, if the FDA or a foreign regulatory agency approves any of our drug candidates, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion, and record keeping for the product will be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restriction on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the drug from the market. We may be subject to costly product liability claims and may not have adequate insurance. Because we have conducted clinical trials in humans in the past and may conduct such trials in the future, we face the risk that the use of our product candidates will result in adverse effects. We expect to maintain product liability insurance for any clinical trials, however, such liability insurance may not be adequate to fully cover any liabilities that arise from clinical trials of our product candidates. We may not have sufficient resources to pay for any liabilities resulting from a claim excluded from, or beyond the limit of, such insurance coverage. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of the hazardous chemicals and radioactive and biological materials we use in our business could be time-consuming and costly. Our research and development processes have in the past and may in the future involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and radioactive and biological materials and our operations have in the past produced and may in the future produce hazardous waste products. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from those materials. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by third parties of these materials. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production activities. 23 Table of Contents Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act contains significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions, some of which the SEC has recently implemented by adopting additional rules and regulations in areas such as executive compensation. If we fail to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act and associated SEC rules, or any other regulations, we could be subject to a range of consequences, including the de-listing of our common stock from The NASDAQ Global Market, significant fines, or other sanctions or litigation. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Our revenues, expenses and operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues, expenses and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly or decline. Some of the factors that could cause our revenues, expenses and operating results to fluctuate include: • the sale of an asset; • the termination of research and development contracts with collaborators, if any, which may not be renewed or replaced; • the success rate of our development or discovery efforts leading to milestones and royalties under collaboration arrangements, if any; • the timing of licensing fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements, including the potential milestone payment from Bayer; • the timing of expenses, particularly with respect to any future contract manufacturing, preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the timing and willingness of any potential future collaborators or other third parties to commercialize our products, which would result in royalties to us; and • general and industry specific economic conditions, which may affect the research and development expenditures of any future collaborator. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenues and expenses, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. Our operating results in some quarters may not meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. In that case, our stock price would likely decline. We are subject to U.S. Federal and state income tax examination for calendar tax years ended 1998 through 2011 and are subject to various international tax examinations for the calendar tax years ended 2004 through 2010. In addition, Danish tax authorities are currently auditing our Danish tax filings for the years 2005 through 2009. While we do not believe there will be any material tax liability associated with this audit, we cannot guarantee the outcome of this audit and, as a result, this ongoing audit, or any future tax audits, may result in material tax liabilities, such as adjustments, penalties, interest and other amounts, that could adversely affect our financial position and cause our stock price to decline. 24 Table of Contents If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may not be able to preserve our cash balances or access such sources if necessary. As of December 31, 2011, we had $159.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. While we maintain an investment portfolio typically consisting of money market funds, U.S. treasury securities and short-term commercial paper and have not experienced any liquidity issues with respect to these securities, we may experience reduced liquidity with respect to some of our investments if current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen. Under extreme market conditions, there can be no assurance that we would be able to preserve our cash balances or that such sources would be available or sufficient for our business. Our facilities in California are located near an earthquake fault, and an earthquake or other types of natural disasters or resource shortages could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our results. Our facilities and substantially all of our important documents and records, such as hard copies of our laboratory books and records for our MAXY-G34 product candidate and our electronic business records, are located in our corporate headquarters at a single location in the San Francisco Bay area, near active earthquake zones. We do not have a formal business continuity or disaster recovery plan, and in the event of a natural disaster, such as an earthquake or localized extended outages of critical utilities or transportation systems, we could experience a significant business interruption. Our stock price has been, and may continue to be, volatile, and an investment in our stock could decline in value. The trading prices of life science company stocks in general, and ours in particular, have experienced significant price fluctuations in the last several years. The valuations of many life science companies without product revenues and earnings, including ours, are based on valuation standards such as progress in product development or clinical trials. Trading prices based on these valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology or life science companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our performance. In addition, our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • our consummation, or our failure to consummate, any strategic transaction; • our implementation, or our failure to implement, any additional distributions of our cash resources to stockholders; • our receipt of, or failure to receive, any licensing or milestone fees or the achievement of milestones under new or existing licensing and collaborative arrangements, including the potential payment from Bayer; • our failure to meet any publicly-announced product development timetables; • adverse or inconclusive results or delays in preclinical development or clinical trials; • any entry into or amendment or termination of a material agreement; • any decisions to discontinue or delay any future preclinical or clinical development; • announcements of new technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • conditions or trends in the biotechnology and life science industries; • changes in the market valuations of other biotechnology or life science companies; • developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulations; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 25 Table of Contents • changes in general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes, terrorist acts and other factors; • developments in or challenges relating to our patent or other proprietary rights, including lawsuits or proceedings alleging patent infringement based on the development, manufacturing or commercialization of MAXY-G34 or any potential future product candidates; and • sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. If a stockholder files a securities class action suit against us, we could incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation. Substantial sales of shares may adversely impact the market price of our common stock. Our common stock trading volume is low and thus the market price of our common stock is particularly sensitive to trading volume. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or other equity awards, the market price of our common stock may decline. Significant sales of our common stock may adversely impact the then-prevailing market price of our common stock. Volatility in the stock prices of other companies may contribute to volatility in our stock price. The stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Further, there has been particular volatility in the market prices of securities of early stage and development stage life sciences companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and could harm our reputation and business. Item 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 