Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, our past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate our results or trends in future periods. We are materially dependent on acceptance of our products by the law enforcement and corrections market, and if law enforcement and corrections agencies do not purchase our products, our revenues will be adversely affected and we may not be able to expand into other markets. A substantial number of law enforcement and corrections agencies may not purchase our electronic control devices. In addition, if our products are not widely accepted by the law enforcement and corrections market, we may not be able to expand sales of our products into other markets such as the military market. Law enforcement and corrections agencies may be influenced by claims or perceptions that conducted energy weapons such as our products are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner. In addition, earlier generation conducted energy devices may have been perceived as ineffective. Sales of our products to these agencies may also be delayed or limited by these claims or perceptions. We substantially depend on sales of our TASER X26 products, and if these products are not widely accepted, our growth prospects will be diminished. In the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we derived our revenues predominantly from sales of the TASER X26 brand devices and related cartridges, and expect to depend on sales of these products for the foreseeable future. A decrease in the prices of or demand for these products, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to manage the growth in our business, our prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our sales and marketing programs and our manufacturing capacity as needed to meet future demand. Any significant expansion may strain our managerial, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will need to continually improve our operations, financial and other internal systems to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may lead to inefficiencies and redundancies, and result in reduced growth prospects and profitability. To the extent demand for our products increases, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to ramp manufacturing production capacity which will be accomplished by the implementation of customized manufacturing automation equipment. We experienced significant revenue growth in 2007 compared to 2006. To the extent demand for our products increases significantly in future periods, one of our key challenges will be to ramp our production capacity to meet sales demand, while maintaining product quality. Our primary strategies to accomplish this include increasing the physical size of our assembly facilities, the hiring of additional production staff, and the implementation of customized automation equipment. We have limited previous experience in implementing automation equipment, and the investments made on this equipment may not yield the anticipated labor and material efficiencies. Our inability to meet any future increase in sales demand or effectively manage our expansion could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, financial results and financial condition. We may face personal injury, wrongful death and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our products are often used in aggressive confrontations that may result in serious, permanent bodily injury or death to those involved. Our products may be associated with these injuries. A person injured in a confrontation or otherwise in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, wrongful death, negligent design, defective product or inadequate warning. We are currently subject to a number of such lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. If successful, personal injury, misuse and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance, we do incur large legal expenses within our self insured retention in defending these lawsuits and significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources, negative publicity and a potential award of monetary damages in excess of our insurance coverage. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that our existing or any future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our financial condition or financial results. 12 Table of Contents Pending litigation may subject us to significant litigation costs, judgments, fines and penalties in excess of insurance coverage, and divert management attention from our business. We are involved in numerous litigation matters relating to our products or the use of such products, litigation against persons who we believe have defamed our products, litigation against medical examiners who made errors in their autopsy reports, litigation against a competitor and litigation against former employees. Such matters have resulted and are expected to continue to result in substantial costs to us and a likely diversion of our management’s attention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to expand sales through distributors and our inability to recruit new distributors would negatively affect our sales. Our distribution strategy is to pursue sales through multiple channels with an emphasis on independent distributors. Our inability to establish relationships with and retain police equipment distributors who can successfully sell our products would adversely affect our sales. In addition, our arrangements with our distributors are generally short-term. If we do not competitively price our products, meet the requirements of our distributors or end-users, provide adequate marketing support, or comply with the terms of our distribution arrangements, our distributors may fail to aggressively market our products or may terminate their relationships with us. These developments would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our reliance on the sales of our products by others also makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash flow and operating results. If we are unable to design, introduce and sell new products or new product features successfully, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products or new product features that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new products and new product features is complex, and we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We cannot provide any assurance that products that we may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop new products or new product features on a timely basis that achieve market acceptance, our business, financial results and competitive position could be adversely affected. We expend significant resources in anticipation of a sale due to our lengthy sales cycle and may receive no revenue in return. Generally, law enforcement and corrections agencies consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, training costs, the cost to use our products in addition to or in place of other non-lethal products, budget constraints and product reliability, safety and efficacy. The length of our sales cycle may range from a few weeks to as long as several years. Adverse publicity surrounding our products or the safety of such products has in the past and could in the future lengthen our sales cycle with customers. In the past, we believe we have experienced revenue decreases in part as the result of adverse effects on our customers and potential customers of negative publicity surrounding our products or use of our products. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and received no revenue in return. Most of our end-users are subject to budgetary and political constraints that may delay or prevent sales. Most of our end-user customers are government agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore have little control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if an agency wants to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. Some government agency orders may also be canceled or substantially delayed due to budgetary, political or other scheduling delays which frequently occur in connection with the acquisition of products by such agencies. Government regulation of our products may adversely affect sales. Federal regulation of sales in the United States: Our devices are not firearms regulated by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, but are consumer products regulated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Although there are currently no federal laws restricting sales of our devices in the United States, future federal regulation could adversely affect sales of our products. 13 Table of Contents Federal regulation of international sales: Our devices are controlled as a “crime control” product by the U.S. Department of Commerce, or DOC, for export directly from the United States. Consequently, we must obtain an export license from the DOC for the export of our devices from the United States other than to Canada. Our inability to obtain DOC export licenses on a timely basis for sales of our devices to our international customers could significantly and adversely affect our international sales. State and local regulation: Our devices are controlled, restricted or their use prohibited by a number of state and local governments. Our devices are banned from private citizen sale or use in seven states: New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Michigan, Wisconsin, Massachusetts and Hawaii. Law enforcement use of our products is also prohibited in New Jersey. Some municipalities, including Omaha, Nebraska and Washington, D.C., also prohibit private citizen use of our products. Other jurisdictions may ban or restrict the sale of our products and our product sales may be significantly affected by additional state, county and city governmental regulation. Foreign regulation: Certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit the sale of conducted energy devices such as our products, limiting our international sales opportunities. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. Environmental legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these requirements. The EU has published Directives on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the RoHS Directive) which became effective in July 2006, and on electronic and electrical waste management (the WEEE Directive). The RoHS Directive restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. The Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE directs members of the European Union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the market after August 15, 2005 and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the U.S. (under federal and state laws) and other countries, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. We continue to monitor the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by the RoHS and WEEE Directives. We endeavor to comply with applicable environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs; increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacturing; limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory; limit our sales activities; and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. Our future success depends upon our proprietary technology. Our protective measures, including patents, trademarks and trade secret protection, may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights. The right to stop others from misusing our trademarks and service marks in commerce depends to some extent on our ability to show evidence of enforcement of our rights against such misuse in commerce. Our efforts to stop improper use, if insufficient, may lead to loss of brand loyalty and notoriety among our customers and prospective customers. Our earliest expiring United States patent generally covers projectile propellant devices having a container of compressed gas in place of gunpowder as a propellant. We use this technology in our cartridges. This patent expires in 2010. The scope of any patent to which we have or may obtain rights may not prevent others from developing and selling competing products. The validity and breadth of claims covered in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions, and the resolution of such claims may be highly uncertain, lengthy and expensive. In addition, our patents may be held invalid upon challenge, or others may claim rights in or ownership of our patents. We have filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court against Stinger Systems that alleges infringement of three of our US patents: 6,999,295; 7,102,870; and 7,234,262. As a tactical move, Stinger Systems filed a motion to stay this case pending a request for ex-parte re-examination Stinger filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) concerning only one of the patents in suit, 7,234,262. On February 21, 2008 the court denied Stinger Systems’ motion to stay this case. A decision by the USPTO as to whether the request states a substantial new question of patentability should be made by March 21, 2008. We have been advised that all issues raised in the request were already considered by the USPTO before original grant of the patent. However, there remains a possibility that the USPTO will grant the request, re-examine the patent, and conclude that some or all of the claims are unenforceable. If that happens, we may appeal that decision to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. 14 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management attention from our business. Any intellectual property infringement claims against us, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and divert our management’s attention from our business. If our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to be able to sell our products. Royalty and licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we face competition in foreign countries, we can enforce patent rights only in the jurisdictions in which our patent applications have been granted. Our U.S. patents only protect us from imported infringing products coming into the U.S. from abroad. Applications for patents in a few foreign countries have been made; however, these may be inadequate to protect markets for our products in other foreign countries. Each foreign patent is examined and granted according to the law of the country where it was filed independent of whether a U.S. patent on similar technology was granted. Government regulations applied to our products may affect our markets for these products. We rely on the opinions of The Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, including the determination that a device that has projectiles propelled by the release of compressed gas, in place of the expanding gases from ignited gunpowder, are not classified as firearms. Changes in statutes, regulations, and interpretation outside of our control may result in our products being classified or reclassified as firearms. Our market to civilians could be substantially reduced if consumers are required to obtain registration to own a firearm prior to purchasing our products. Competition in the law enforcement and corrections market could reduce our sales and prevent us from achieving profitability. The law enforcement and corrections market is highly competitive. We face competition from numerous larger, better capitalized and more widely known companies that make other non-lethal devices and products. Increased competition may result in greater pricing pressure, lower gross margins and reduced sales. In this regard, two different competitors announced plans to introduce new products in 2005. During 2007, one of those companies introduced a new device to compete with the TASER X26. We are unable to predict the impact such products will have on our sales or our sales cycle, but existing or potential customers may choose to evaluate such products which could lengthen our sales cycle and potentially reduce our future sales. Defects in our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at any point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation and increased warranty costs. Our dependence on third party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or subassemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of sub-assemblies, machined parts, injection molded plastic parts, printed circuit boards, custom wire fabrications and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We also do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Component shortages could result in our inability to produce volume to adequately meet customer demand. This could result in a loss of sales, delay in deliveries and injury to our reputation. Single source components used in the manufacture of our products may become unavailable or discontinued. Delays caused by industry allocations, or obsolescence may take weeks or months to resolve. In some cases, part obsolescence may require a product re-design to ensure quality replacement circuits. These delays could cause significant delays in manufacturing and loss of sales, leading to adverse effects significantly impacting our financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our dependence on foreign suppliers for key components of our products could delay shipment of our finished products and reduce our sales. We depend on foreign suppliers for the delivery of certain components used in the assembly of our products. Due to changes imposed for imports of foreign products into the United States, as well as potential port closures and delays created by terrorist threats, public health issues or national disasters, we are exposed to risk of delays caused by freight carriers or customs clearance issues for our imported parts. Delays caused by our inability to obtain components for assembly could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. We may experience a decline in gross margins due to rising raw material and transportation costs associated with an increase in petroleum prices. A significant number of our raw materials are comprised of petroleum based products, or incur some form of landed cost associated with transporting the raw materials or components to our facility. Any significant rise in oil prices could adversely impact our ability to sustain current gross margins, by reducing our ability to control component pricing. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to: • market acceptance of our products and services • the outcome of any existing or future litigation • adverse publicity surrounding our products, the safety of our products, or the use of our products • changes in our sales mix • new product introduction costs • increased raw material expenses • changes in our operating expenses • regulatory changes that may affect the marketability of our products • budgetary cycles of municipal, state and federal law enforcement and corrections agencies As a result of these and other factors, we believe that period- to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful in the short term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. We may experience difficulties in the future in complying with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. We are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, we have been required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report contains among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. Such report also contains a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal controls. In our Form 10-K for our 2005 fiscal year, because of our previously reported material weaknesses related to not having controls in place to record appropriate accruals related to professional fees in the appropriate accounting period and inadequate resources related to accounting and financial statement preparation particularly with respect to financial statement footnote preparation were not fully remediated and tested at December 31, 2005, our management assessment and the report of our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm concluded that our internal controls were not effective at December 31, 2005. Because of our prior material weaknesses, there is heightened risk that a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements will not be prevented or detected. While we completed our remediation efforts to address these material weaknesses and while we did not identify any materials weaknesses at December 31, 2007 or 2006, we cannot assure you that material weaknesses will not occur in future periods. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in future periods, it could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and our ability to run our business effectively and could cause investors to lose confidence in our financial reporting. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. In the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under Section 404, investor confidence in us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. 16 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our competitiveness and sales in foreign markets. The relative change in currency values creates fluctuations in our product pricing for potential international customers. These changes in foreign end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. These changes may also negatively affect the financial condition of some existing or potential foreign customers and reduce or eliminate their future orders of our products. Use of estimates may cause our financial results to differ from expectations. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. We face risks associated with rapid technological change and new competing products. The technology associated with non-lethal devices is receiving significant attention and is rapidly evolving. While we have patent protection in key areas of electro-muscular disruption technology, it is possible that new non-lethal technology may result in competing products that operate outside our patents and could present significant competition for our products. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key management and technical personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our officers, the employment of such persons is “at-will” and either we or the employee can terminate the employment relationship at any time, subject to the applicable terms of the employment agreements. The competition for our key employees is intense. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 