Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: We will not be able to grow unless we increase market acceptance of our products and develop new products and applications. Our ability to grow will depend largely on our success in converting the current demand for wood in decking, railing, fencing, and trim applications into a demand for Trex products. Industry studies estimate that wood products accounted for approximately 81% of the 2007 decking and railing market, as measured by linear feet of lumber. To increase our market share, we must overcome: • the low consumer awareness of non-wood decking, railing, fencing and trim alternatives in general and Trex brand products in particular; • the resistance of many consumers and contractors to change from well-established wood products; • the greater initial expense of installing Trex decking, railing, fencing and trim; • the established relationships existing between suppliers of wood decking, railing, fencing and trim products and contractors and homebuilders; and • the increased competition from wood/plastic composite manufacturers. Our business could suffer from a lack of product diversification. In 2008, we will derive substantially all of our revenues from sales of Trex Wood-Polymer® lumber. Although we have developed new products and applications since beginning operation in 1996, and intend to continue this development, our product line is currently based almost exclusively on the composite formula and manufacturing process for Trex Wood-Polymer lumber. If we should experience any problems, real or perceived, with product quality or acceptance of Trex Wood-Polymer lumber, our lack of product diversification could have a significant adverse impact on our net sales levels. Our prospects for sales growth and profitability will be adversely affected if we fail to maintain product quality and product performance at an acceptable cost. We will be able to expand our net sales and to sustain and enhance profitable operations only if we succeed in maintaining the quality and performance of our products. If we should not be able to produce high-quality products at standard manufacturing rates and yields, unit costs may be higher. A lack of product performance would negatively affect our profitability by impeding acceptance of our products in the marketplace and by leading to higher product replacement and consumer relations expenses. In recent periods, we have experienced significant increases in product replacement and consumer relations expenses related to product quality and have increased our warranty reserve accordingly. Because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of the number of future claims and the cost to settle claims, our ultimate losses may exceed our warranty reserve. Future increases to the warranty reserve would have an adverse effect on our profitability in the periods in which we make such increases. The warranty reserve we established in the third quarter of 2007 and increased in the following quarter had a material adverse impact on our 2007 operating results. Our dependence on three manufacturing sites to meet the demand for Trex products could limit our ability to meet customer demand. We are able to produce our products at three manufacturing sites, although we do not currently utilize our Olive Branch, Mississippi facility. Any interruption in the operations or decrease in the production capacity at any of these sites, whether because of equipment failure, fire, natural disaster, labor difficulties or otherwise, would limit our ability to meet existing and future customer demand for our products. 14 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks in obtaining the raw materials we use. The production of Trex Wood-Polymer requires substantial amounts of waste wood fiber and PE material. Our business could suffer from the termination of significant sources of raw materials, the payment of higher prices for raw materials or the failure to obtain sufficient additional raw materials to meet planned increases in production capacity. In 2007, one supplier accounted for approximately one-third of our waste wood fiber purchases. Our ability to obtain adequate supplies of PE material depends on our success in developing new sources that meet the minimum quality requirements, entering into long-term arrangements with suppliers and managing the collection of supplies from geographically dispersed distribution centers and off-shore resources. We generally obtain our raw materials under supply contracts at prices established annually based on then-current market prices or under purchase orders based on market rates in effect when the orders become effective. These supply arrangements subject us to risks associated with fluctuations in raw materials prices. We have limited ability to control or project inventory build-ups in our distribution channel that can negatively affect our sales in subsequent periods. The dynamic nature of our industry can result in substantial fluctuations in inventory levels of Trex products carried in our two-step distribution channel. We have limited ability to control or precisely project inventory build-ups, which can adversely affect our net sales levels in subsequent periods. We make the substantial majority of our sales to wholesale distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to local lumber yards. Because of the seasonal nature of the demand for decking, railing and fencing, our distribution channel partners must forecast demand for our products, place orders for the products, and maintain Trex product inventories in advance of the prime deck-building season, which generally occurs in our second and third fiscal quarters. Accordingly, our results for the second and third fiscal quarters are difficult to predict and past performance will not necessarily indicate future performance. Inventory levels respond to a number of changing conditions in our industry, including product price increases resulting from escalating raw materials costs, increases in the number of competitive producers and in the production capacity of those competitors, the rapid pace of product introduction and innovation, changes in the levels of home-building and remodeling expenditures, and weather-related demand fluctuations. Our strategy of using recycled plastic and waste wood to create a competitive cost advantage involves significant risks. Our business strategy is to create a substantial cost advantage over our competitors. To achieve such a cost advantage, we must recycle plastic and process waste wood on a cost-effective basis and efficiently convert these materials into high-quality finished goods. This strategy involves significant risks, including the risks that: • Our profitability may be materially diminished. The intrinsic variability of our raw material sources can result in considerable reduction in our operating rates and yields, which may more than offset any savings we realize from the low purchase price of the materials. • We may not produce a sustainable return on investment. Because our production model requires backward integration in plastic recycling operations, as well as customized solutions for material preparation, compounding and extrusion, our model is significantly more capital intensive on a per-unit-basis than the models of our typical competitors. Our plants must convert our raw materials at high rates and high net yields to generate the profit margins and cash flows necessary to sustain our business. • We may be limited in the markets in which we can effectively compete. Successfully expanding our business beyond decking and railing requires applying our formulation and process technology to increasingly more challenging applications, such as fencing products. The greater complexity and tighter design tolerances of such profiles requires a level of process control than is more stringent than the level involved in deck and rail board production. Our raw materials and process technology may not permit us to develop new applications on a cost-effective basis. 15 Table of Contents The demand for our products is influenced by general economic conditions and could be adversely affected by economic downturns. The demand for our products is correlated to changes in the level of activity in home improvements and, to a lesser extent, new home construction. These activity levels, in turn, are affected by such factors as home equity values, home equity withdrawals, consumer spending habits, employment, interest rates and inflation. Market conditions in the housing industry have slowed significantly in recent periods, particularly in new home construction. Economic trends indicate that home equity values in many markets have softened and that home equity withdrawals have decreased, which may result in decreased home improvement spending. We cannot predict whether this trend will continue or worsen. Any economic downturn could reduce consumer income or equity capital available for spending on discretionary items such as decking, railing, fencing or trim, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. Our performance will suffer if we do not compete effectively in the highly competitive decking, railing, fencing and trim markets. We must compete with an increasing number of companies in the wood/plastic composites segment of the decking, railing, fencing and trim markets and with wood producers that currently have more production capacity than is required to meet the demand for such products. Our failure to compete successfully in such markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace wood or increase the market share of wood/plastic composites compared to wood. Many of the conventional lumber suppliers with which we compete have established ties to the building and construction industry and have well-accepted products. Many of our competitors in the decking, railing, fencing and trim markets that sell wood products have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of our competitors to develop new non-wood alternatives that are competitive with Trex products. We face risks in increasing our production levels to meet customer demand. To support sales growth and improve customer service, we will face risks: • recruiting and training additions to our workforce; • installing and operating new production equipment; • purchasing raw materials for increased production requirements; and • maintaining product quality. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expense, which could adversely affect our operating performance. Past seasonal fluctuations in our net sales and quarterly operating results may not be a reliable indicator of future seasonal fluctuations. Our historical seasonality may not be a reliable indicator of our future seasonality. Quarterly variations in our net sales and income from operations are principally attributable to seasonal trends in the demand for our products. We generally experience lower net sales levels during the fourth quarter, in which holidays and adverse weather conditions in some regions usually reduce the level of home improvement and new construction activity. Income from operations and net income tend to be lower in quarters with lower net sales, which are not fully offset by a corresponding reduction in expenses. We have significant capital invested in property, plant and equipment that may become obsolete or impaired and result in a charge to our earnings. At December 31, 2007, we had $193.9 million of net property, plant and equipment. The improvement we seek to make to our manufacturing processes sometimes involves the implementation of new technology and 16 Table of Contents replacement of equipment at our manufacturing facilities, which may result in charges to our earnings if the existing equipment is not fully depreciated. Of our net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2007, approximately $46.1 million is located at our Olive Branch, Mississippi manufacturing facility. We suspended manufacturing operations at the Olive Branch facility in the third quarter of 2007 for an indeterminate period. Changes in our plans regarding the future operation of the facility or the expected cash flows generated by the facility may result in impairment charges and reduce earnings. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of December 31, 2007, we had $134.0 million of total indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a significant portion of our borrowings will continue to be at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds to alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to refinance our principal secured indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and bond reimbursement agreement impose operating and financial restrictions that limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets; • engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliated persons; • make investments; and • change the nature of our business. We may incur indebtedness in addition to our current indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future could subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. 17 Table of Contents We will have to generate substantial operating cash flow to meet our obligations and maintain compliance under our debt obligations. Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our real estate loans, convertible notes and bond loan agreement, borrow and repay amounts under our revolving credit facility and continue to comply with our loan covenants will depend primarily on our ability to generate substantial cash flow from operations. Our failure to comply with our loan covenants might cause our lenders to accelerate our repayment obligations under our credit facility or bond reimbursement agreement, which may be declared payable immediately based on a default and which could result in a cross-default under our $97.5 million principal amount of outstanding convertible notes. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is tied to a borrowing base that consists of specified receivables and inventory. To remain in compliance with our credit facility, real estate loans and bond reimbursement agreement, we must maintain specified financial ratios based on our levels of debt, capital, net worth, fixed charges, and earnings (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary non-cash losses) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, all of which are subject to the risks of our business. Our dependence on a small number of significant distributors makes us vulnerable to business interruptions involving these distributors. Our total gross sales to our five largest wholesale distributors accounted for approximately 69% of our gross sales in 2007. Our contracts with these distributors are terminable by the distributors upon 30 days’ notice at any time during the contract term. A contract termination or significant decrease or interruption in business from any of our five largest distributors or any other significant distributor could cause a short-term disruption of our operations and adversely affect our operating results. Environmental regulation exposes us to potential liability for response costs and damages to natural resources. We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. The environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations establish air quality standards for emissions from our manufacturing operations, govern the disposal of solid waste, and regulate wastewater and storm water discharge. As is the case with manufacturers in general, we may be held liable for response costs and damages to natural resources if a release or threat of release of hazardous materials occurs on or from our properties or any associated offsite disposal location, or if contamination from prior activities is discovered at any properties we own or operate. We may not have adequate protection for the intellectual property rights on which our business depends. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our important intellectual property rights. The steps we have taken may not be adequate to deter misappropriation or unauthorized use of our proprietary information or to enable us to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. We have obtained and continue to seek patents with respect to our manufacturing process and products. We or our predecessor company have been required in lawsuits to establish that our production processes and products do not infringe the patents of others. We also rely on a combination of trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, and copyright and trademark laws to protect our proprietary rights. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information, and if it is necessary to disclose proprietary information to third parties for business reasons, we require that such third parties sign a confidentiality agreement prior to any disclosure. However, these confidentiality agreements cannot guarantee there will not be disclosure or misappropriation of such proprietary information. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 Table of Contents 