ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks in our business operations which are described below. Careful consideration of these risks should be made before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing 21st Century. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters. We write insurance policies that cover homeowners, business owners and automobile owners for losses that result from, among other things, catastrophes and sinkholes. Catastrophic losses can be caused by hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, riots and explosions, and their incidence and severity are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of two factors: the total amount of the insurance company's exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our policyholders are currently concentrated in South and Central Florida, which is especially subject to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tropical storms. In 2004 and 2005, the state of Florida experienced nine hurricanes. One of our subsidiaries, Federated National, incurred significant losses relative to its homeowners’ and mobile homeowners’ insurance lines of business in connection with these catastrophic weather events. Aggregate losses in connection with these storms involved over 23,000 claims at a cost in excess of $71.9 million, net of our reinsurance participation. - 25 - - 21st Century Holding Company The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may also increase the severity of these occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have used 99.2% of the reinsurance coverage available for Hurricane Wilma and if any claims exceed this coverage amount, it could adversely impact our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. As of December 31, 2009, the loss experience (both paid and not yet paid) in connection with Hurricane Wilma which occurred in October 2005 has exhausted approximately 99.2% of the $194.8 million reinsurance coverage which is available to us. If we incur any additional losses relating to Hurricane Wilma which exceed our reinsurance coverage, we will be responsible for paying these claims out of our available operating funds. If any of these payments to settle the Hurricane Wilma claims (which exceed our reinsurance coverage) are material, it will have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we follow the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our risks, our costs of obtaining reinsurance fluctuates and we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements. The state of Florida has a history of exposure to extremely volatile weather related catastrophic events including hurricanes and tornados. The frequency and severity of these events can have a profound impact on our balance sheet and statements of operations and cash flows. Though the Company attempts to mitigate the impact of these events, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We have a reinsurance structure that is a combination of private reinsurance and the FHCF. Our reinsurance structure is comprised of several reinsurance companies with varying levels of participation providing coverage for loss and LAE at pre-established minimum and maximum amounts. Losses incurred in connection with a catastrophic event below the minimum and above the maximum are the responsibility of Federated National. For example, the loss experience incurred (both paid and not yet paid) in connection with Hurricane Wilma in October 2005 has exhausted approximately 99.2% of the $194.8 million reinsurance coverage available. There can be no assurance that we will not exceed the coverage purchased. As a result of the nine hurricanes experienced in Florida during the fourteen month period between August 2004 and October 2005, and changes in Florida law in 2007 regarding the pricing and availability of reinsurance, we continue to review, and may determine to modify, our reinsurance structure. Though there has been no occurrence of hurricanes in Florida within the last four hurricane seasons, some weather analysts believe that we have entered a period of greater hurricane activity while others suggest a diminished expectation for the near future. To address this risk, we are exploring alternatives to reduce our exposure to these types of storms. Although these measures may increase operating expenses, management believes that they will assist us in protecting long-term profitability, although there can be no assurances that will be the case. The availability and costs associated with the acquisition of reinsurance will vary year to year. These fluctuations, which can be significant, are not subject to our control and may limit our ability to purchase adequate coverage. The recovery of increased reinsurance costs through rate action is not immediate and cannot be presumed, as it is subject to Florida OIR approval. Insolvency of our primary reinsurer or any of our other current or future reinsurers including the FHCF, or their inability otherwise to pay claims, would increase the claims that we must pay, thereby potentially harming significantly our balance sheet, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, prevailing market conditions have increased the availability and limited the cost of reinsurance, although there can be no assurances that these conditions will persist. We face a risk of non-collectibility of reinsurance, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. As is common practice within the insurance industry, we transfer a portion of the risks insured under our policies to other companies through the purchase of reinsurance. This reinsurance is maintained to protect our insurance subsidiary against the severity of losses on individual claims, unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss and catastrophic events. Although reinsurance does not discharge our insurance subsidiary from its primary obligation to pay for losses insured under the policies it issues, reinsurance does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiary for the reinsured portion of the risk. A credit exposure exists with respect to ceded losses to the extent that any reinsurer is unable or unwilling to meet the obligations assumed under the reinsurance contracts. The collectibility of reinsurance is subject to the solvency of the reinsurers, interpretation of contract language and other factors. A reinsurer's insolvency or inability to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance contract could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. - 26 - - 21st Century Holding Company The availability and costs associated with the acquisition of reinsurance will vary year to year. These fluctuations, which can be significant, are not subject to our control and may limit our ability to purchase adequate coverage. The recovery of increased reinsurance costs through rate action is not immediate and cannot be presumed, as it is subject to Florida OIR approval. For the 2009-2010 hurricane season, the excess of loss and FHCF treaties will insure us for approximately $456.6 million of aggregate catastrophic losses and LAE with a maximum single event coverage totaling approximately $349.7 million, with the Company retaining the first $5.0 million of losses and LAE for each event. Our reinsurance program includes coverage purchased from the private market, which afforded optional reinstatement premium protection that provides coverage beyond the first event, along with coverage from the FHCF. Coverage afforded by the FHCF totals approximately $259.0 million or 56.7% of the $456.6 million of aggregate catastrophic losses and LAE. The FHCF affords coverage for the entire season, subject to maximum payouts, without regard to any particular insurable event. Our reinsurance structure has significant risks, including the fact that the FHCF may not be able to raise sufficient money to pay their claims or impair their ability to pay their claims in a timely manner. This could result in significant financial, legal and operational challenges to our company. Therefore, in the event of a catastrophic loss, we may become dependent upon the FHCF's ability to pay, which may, in turn, be dependent upon the FHCF's ability to issue bonds in amounts that would be required to meet its reinsurance obligations in the event of such a catastrophic loss. In this economic climate, there is no assurance that the FHCF will be able to do this. Please see “Business-Reinsurance” for more information about FHCF. We may experience financial exposure from climate change. Our financial exposure from climate change is most notably associated with losses in connection with the occurrence of hurricanes striking Florida. We mitigate the risk of financial exposure from climate change by restrictive underwriting criteria, sensitivity to geographic concentrations and reinsurance. Restrictive underwriting criteria can include, but are not limited to, higher premiums and deductibles and more specifically excluded policy risks such as fences and screened-in enclosures. New technological advances in computer generated geographical mapping afford us an enhanced perspective as to geographic concentrations of policyholders and proximity to flood prone areas. Our amount of maximum reinsurance coverage is determined by subjecting our homeowner and mobile homeowner exposures to statistical forecasting models that are designed to quantify a catastrophic event in terms of the frequency of a storm occurring once in every “n” years. Our reinsurance coverage contemplated a catastrophic event occurring once every 100 years. Our amount of losses retained (our deductible) in connection with a catastrophic event is determined by market capacity, pricing conditions and surplus preservation. Our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual liability for losses, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and LAE. These reserves are estimates based on historical data and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Actual loss and LAE reserves, however, may vary significantly from our estimates. Factors that affect unpaid losses and LAE include the estimates made on a claim-by-claim basis known as “case reserves” coupled with bulk estimates known as IBNR. Periodic estimates by management of the ultimate costs required to settle all claim files are based on our analysis of historical data and estimations of the impact of numerous factors such as (i) per claim information; (ii) company and industry historical loss experience; (iii) legislative enactments, judicial decisions, legal developments in the awarding of damages, and changes in political attitudes; and (iv) trends in general economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. Management revises its estimates based on the results of its analysis. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for estimating the ultimate settlement of all claims. There is no precise method for subsequently evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of the reserves, because the eventual redundancy or deficiency is affected by multiple factors. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimated loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves will be adequate to cover our actual losses. If our reserves for unpaid losses and LAE are less than actual losses and LAE, we will be required to increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. Future loss experience substantially in excess of our reserves for unpaid losses and LAE could substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition. - 27 - - 21st Century Holding Company Our revenues and operating performance will fluctuate due to statutorily approved assessments that support property and casualty insurance pools and associations. We operate in a regulatory environment where certain entities and organizations have the authority to require us to participate in assessments. Currently these entities and organizations include, but are not limited to, the Florida Joint Underwriters Association (“JUA”), FIGA, Citizens and the FHCF. The current assessments stem from the catastrophic effects to the property insurance industry in the state of Florida from the hurricanes that occurred during the fourteen months between August 2004 and October 2005. Several of the assessments resulted in a charge to current operations. The insurance companies currently pass the assessments on to insurance policies, in the form of a policy surcharge, and reflect the collection of these assessments as fully earned credits to operations in the period collected. The collection of these fees may adversely affect our overall marketing strategy due to the competitive landscape in Florida. All other pricing considerations remaining the same, a newly formed property insurance company would not be subject to the recoupment of previously imposed assessments. During 2009, we noted that the Florida OIR placed at least four property and casualty insurance companies in some form of receivership while several other Florida domiciled insurance companies have recapitalized in order to remain viable in the Florida market. The insolvency of these companies poses a risk to all other remaining carriers in the state including Federated National and American Vehicle in terms of assessments to support those failed companies. To date we are not aware of any such assessments in connection with the takeovers during 2009; however no guarantee can be made that no assessments will be imposed. Future assessments are likely, however the impact of these assessments on our balance sheet, results of operations or cash flow are undeterminable at this time. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which would significantly reduce our earnings. As do other insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a substantial portion of our earnings. During the time that normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and any payment of insurance claims, we invest the funds received, together with our other available capital, primarily in debt securities and to a lesser extent in equity securities, in order to generate investment income. In connection with our equity securities, we determined that certain securities qualified for other than temporary impairment status in 2008. In connection with this process we charged to operations a net realized investment loss that totaled approximately $9.9 million, net of an estimated provisional tax effect of approximately $3.7 million. Most of these investments were subsequently sold during the third and fourth quarter of the year, and, we recognized an additional $0.2 million loss, net of an estimated tax benefit of approximately $0.1 million. In connection with our equity securities, we determined that no securities qualified for other than temporary impairment in 2009. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates or decrease in credit worthiness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, bond prices decrease as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less than expected. We may experience a loss due to the concentration of credit risk. Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentration of credit risk consist of cash and cash equivalents held in a mutual fund money market account. Management believes that the financial institution holding the Company’s mutual fund money market account is credit worthy and accordingly minimal credit risk exists with respect to those investments. The Company had approximately $19.2 million and $121.4 million invested in the MTB Prime Money Market-Inst Fund Number 142, for which the NAIC classification is Class 1, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. A money market fund is eligible for listing on the Class 1 list if the fund meets the following conditions: - 28 - - 21st Century Holding Company · The fund maintains a rating of “A” or better from Standard and Poor’s or a rating of “A” or better from Moody’s Investor’s Services (“Moody’s”) or an equivalent or better rating from another NAIC Acceptable Rating Organizations (“ARO”); · The fund maintains a constant net asset value of $1.00 at all times; · The fund allows a maximum of seven-day redemption of proceeds; and · The fund invests at least ninety-five percent (95%) of its total assets in any combination of: the United States Government securities listed in Section 14 of the Appendix, securities rated in the highest short term rating category by an NAIC ARO, unrated securities determined by the fund’s Board to be of comparable quality, securities of money market funds that are registered investment companies and collateralized repurchase agreements comprised of such obligations at all times. The remaining five percent (5%) may be invested in Second Tier Securities as that phrase is defined by Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (17 CFR 270.2a-7). We face risks in connection with potential material weakness resulting from our Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 management report and any related remedial measures that we undertake. In conjunction with our ongoing reporting obligations as a public company and the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In order to identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we engaged in a process to document, evaluate and test our internal controls and procedures, including corrections to existing controls and implement additional controls and procedures that we may deem necessary. As a result of this evaluation and testing process, no material financial reporting deficiencies were noted. Although we did not have any material weaknesses in our internal controls for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we cannot be certain that there will be none in the future. In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, the correction of any such significant deficiencies or material weaknesses could require additional remedial measures that could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the discovery of material weaknesses could also require the restatement of prior period operating results. If a material weakness exists as of a future period year-end (including a material weakness identified prior to year-end for which there is an insufficient period of time to evaluate and confirm the effectiveness of the corrections or related new procedures), our management will be unable to report favorably as of such future period year-end as to the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including, but not limited to, exclusions relating to types of vehicles we insure, specific artisan activities and homes in close proximity to the coast line. In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While our insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely affect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. An example of such emerging change is the influence public adjusters have had on property claim patterns. Public adjusters represented the vast majority of new and reopened claims filed during 2009 where the cause of loss was asserted as hurricane related. Although the legitimacy of the claim may not prevail we are still required to research, review, and sometimes mediate these claims. Several legislative actions in the state of Florida, such as limiting the time a claim can be filed subsequent to the cause of loss, have either passed or remain in legislative sub-committees. Each of these actions is designed to enhance the legitimacy of the public adjusters’ influence on the claim process. - 29 - - 21st Century Holding Company The Company’s operating results in 2009 were also influenced by legislative enactments relating to claims payments. Following the 2004 and 2005 hurricane seasons, the Florida legislature required all insurers issuing replacement cost policies to pay the full replacement cost of damaged properties without deducting depreciation whether or not the insureds repaired or replaced the damaged property. Under prior law, insurers would pay the depreciated amount of the property until insureds commenced repairs or replacement. The new law has led to an increase in disagreements regarding the scope of damage and has resulted in insureds’ not repairing damage. Despite our efforts to adjust claims and promptly pay meritorious amounts, our operating results have been be affected by a claims environment in Florida that produces opportunities for fraudulent or overstated claims. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, financial results and capital requirements. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of our claims representatives, the culture of our claims organization and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors. Our failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our image and negatively affect our financial results. In addition, if we do not train new claims adjusting employees effectively or if we lose a significant number of experienced claims adjusting employees, our claims department’s ability to handle an increasing workload as we grow could be adversely affected. In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, we could suffer decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower our operating margins. If we are unable to continue our growth because our capital must be used to pay greater than anticipated claims, our financial results may suffer. Our future growth will depend on our ability to expand the types of insurance products we offer and the geographic markets in which we do business, both balanced by the business risks we choose to assume and cede. We believe that our Company is sufficiently capitalized to operate our business as it now exists and as we currently plan to expand it. Our existing sources of funds include possible sales of our investment securities and our earnings from operations and investments. Unexpected catastrophic events in our market areas, such as the hurricanes experienced in Florida, have resulted and may result in greater claims losses than anticipated, which could require us to limit or halt our growth while we redeploy our capital to pay these unanticipated claims. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe current capital, together with our anticipated retained earnings, will support our operations without the need to raise additional capital. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect our capital needs and their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders’ ownership could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our business is heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to shareholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. - 30 - - 21st Century Holding Company From time to time, some states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. In other situations, states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance. For example, in 2007 Florida enacted legislation that required us to charge rates for homeowners insurance that we believe are inadequate to cover the related underwriting risk. This same legislation authorizes a state-owned insurance company to reduce its premium rates and begin competing against private insurers in the Florida residential property insurance market. Currently the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to banks. In addition, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly impact the insurance industry and us. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements. Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Our insurance companies are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws, including the laws of their state of domicile, Florida. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC require our insurance companies to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level risk-based capital. Authorized control level risk-based capital is the number determined by applying the NAIC’s risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations. Any failure by one of our insurance companies to meet the applicable risk-based capital or minimum statutory capital requirements imposed by the laws of Florida or other states where we do business could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. As of December 31, 2009, American Vehicle and Federated National were in compliance with the NAIC risk-based capital requirements (see “Business-Regulation” for further discussion). Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. Our revenues and operating performance may fluctuate with business cycles in the property and casualty insurance industry. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns characterized by periods of significant competition in pricing and underwriting terms and conditions, which is known as a "soft" insurance market, followed by periods of lessened competition and increasing premium rates, which is known as a "hard" insurance market. Although an individual insurance company's financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern, with profitability generally increasing in hard markets and decreasing in soft markets. At present, we are experiencing a soft market in the property and casualty market in Florida because of regulatory changes. We cannot predict, however, how long these market conditions will persist. We do not compete entirely on price or targeted market share. Our ability to compete is governed by our ability to assess and price an insurance product with an acceptable risk for obtaining profit. - 31 - - 21st Century Holding Company We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to expand the types of insurance products we offer or the states in which we operate. The insurance industry is highly regulated. Prior to selling a new insurance product in a state, we must obtain approval from the applicable state insurance regulators. The insurance regulators in states to which we might apply may request additional information, add conditions to the license that we find unacceptable, or deny our application. This would delay or prevent us from operating in that state. If we want to operate in any additional states, we must file similar applications for licenses, which we may not be successful in obtaining. Adverse ratings by insurance rating agencies may adversely impact our ability to write new policies, renew desirable policies or obtain adequate insurance, which could limit or halt our growth and harm our business. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the ability of insurers to pay their claims. These financial strength ratings are used by the insurance industry to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers. These ratings are based on criteria established by the rating agencies and reflect evaluations of each insurer's profitability, debt and cash levels, customer base, adequacy and soundness of reinsurance, quality and estimated market value of assets, adequacy of reserves, and management. Ratings are based upon factors of concern to agents, reinsurers and policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors, such as purchasers of our common stock. Demotech has publicly stated that the potential inability of the FHCF to honor its obligations to carriers in Florida who are dependent on its reinsurance has impacted its ratings process. See Business-Ratings. Furthermore, on March 22, 2010, Federated National received notice from Demotech that it would require a capital infusion of $10 million by March 31, 2010 in order for Federated National to maintain its’ “A” rating with the agency. We are working to comply with this requirement; however there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. Any additional capital contribution to Federated National must be approved by the Florida OIR. The withdrawal of our ratings could limit or prevent us from writing or renewing desirable insurance policies, from competing with insurers who have higher ratings, from obtaining adequate reinsurance, or from borrowing on a line of credit. The withdrawal of our ratings could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial position because the Company’s insurance products might no longer be acceptable to the secondary marketplace and mortgage lenders. Furthermore, a withdrawal of our ratings could prevent independent agents from selling and servicing our insurance products. We rely on independent and general agents to write our insurance policies, and if we are not able to attract and retain independent and general agents, our revenues would be negatively affected. We currently market and distribute Federated National's and American Vehicle's products and services through contractual relationships with a network of approximately 4,200 independent agents, of which approximately 300 actively sell and service our products, and a selected number of general agents. Our independent agents are our primary source for our automobile and property insurance policies. Many of our competitors also rely on independent agents. As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business. Our competitors may offer a greater variety of insurance products, lower premiums for insurance coverage, or higher commissions to their agents. If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract business from independent agents to sell our products. A material reduction in the amount of our products that independent agents sell could negatively affect our revenues. We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure of these systems could disrupt our operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our current information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. As a result, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Nonstandard automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than standard automobile insurance, thereby increasing our potential for loss exposure beyond what we would be likely to experience if we offered only standard automobile insurance. Nonstandard automobile insurance is provided to insureds that are unable to obtain preferred or standard insurance coverage because of their payment histories, driving records, age, vehicle types, or prior claims histories. This type of automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than does preferred or standard automobile insurance policies, although the average dollar amount of the claims is usually smaller under nonstandard insurance policies. As a result, we are exposed to the possibility of increased loss exposure and higher claims experience than would be the case if we offered only standard automobile insurance. - 32 - - 21st Century Holding Company Florida's personal injury protection insurance statute contains provisions that favor claimants, causing us to experience a higher frequency of claims than might otherwise be the case if we operated only outside of Florida. Florida's personal injury protection insurance statute limits an insurer's ability to deny benefits for medical treatment that is unrelated to the accident, that is unnecessary, or that is fraudulent. In addition, the statute allows claimants to obtain awards for attorney's fees. Although this statute has been amended several times in recent years, primarily to address concerns over fraud, the Florida legislature has been only marginally successful in implementing effective mechanisms that allow insurers to combat fraud and other abuses. We believe that this statute contributes to a higher frequency of claims under nonstandard automobile insurance policies in Florida, as compared with claims under standard automobile insurance policies in Florida and nonstandard and standard automobile insurance policies in other states. Although we believe that we have successfully offset these higher costs with premium increases, because of competition, we may not be able to do so with as much success in the future. Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite. The results of our operations and the financial condition of our insurance companies depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, LAE and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: · the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; · the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; · our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques; · changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and restoration costs; and · legislatively imposed consumer initiatives. Consequently, we could under-price risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Current operating resources are necessary to develop future new insurance products. We currently intend to expand our product offerings by underwriting additional insurance products and programs, and marketing them through our distribution network. Expansion of our product offerings will result in increases in expenses due to additional costs incurred in actuarial rate justifications, software and personnel. Offering additional insurance products may also require regulatory approval, further increasing our costs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful bringing new insurance products to our marketplace. Increased competition, competitive pressures, industry developments and market conditions could affect the growth of our business and adversely impact our financial results. We operate in highly competitive markets and face competition from national, regional and residual market insurance companies in the homeowners’, commercial residential property, commercial general liability, and automobile markets, many of whom are larger, have greater financial and other resources, have better ratings, and offer more diversified insurance coverage. Our competitors include companies that market their products through agents, as well as companies that sell insurance directly to their customers. Large national writers may have certain competitive advantages over agency writers, including increased name recognition, increased loyalty of their customer base and reduced policy acquisition costs. Significant competition emerged because of the January 2007 emergency Florida legislation session wherein it passed, and the Governor signed into law, a bill known as “CS/HB-1A”. This law made fundamental changes to the property and casualty insurance business in Florida and undertook a multi-pronged approach to address the cost of residential property insurance in Florida. First, the law increased the capacity of reinsurance that stabilized the reinsurance market to the benefit of the insurance companies writing properties lines in the state of Florida. Secondly, the law provided for rate relief to all policyholders. - 33 - - 21st Century Holding Company The law also authorized the state-owned insurance company, Citizens, which is free of many of the restraints on private carriers such as surplus, ratios, income taxes and reinsurance expense, to reduce its premium rates and begin competing against private insurers in the residential property insurance market and expands the authority of Citizens to write commercial insurance. We previously stated our belief that these aggressive marketplace changes have forced some carriers to pursue market share based on “best case” pricing models that may ultimately prove unprofitable from an underwriting perspective. For example, during 2009 we noted that the Florida OIR placed at least four property and casualty insurance companies in some form of receivership while several other Florida domiciled insurance companies have recapitalized in order to remain viable in the Florida market. The insolvency of these companies poses a risk to all other remaining carriers in the state including Federated National and American Vehicle in terms of assessments to support those failed companies. To date we are not aware of any such assessments in connection with the takeovers during 2009; however no guarantee can be made that no assessments will be imposed. In recent years, approximately two-dozen new homeowner insurance companies received authority by the Florida OIR to commence business as admitted carriers in the state of Florida. At least one new carrier has been licensed to enter the Florida homeowners’ market during 2009 and another in 2010. We did not participate in the Capital Build-Up incentive program and therefore have been able to remain committed to the discipline of writing business that is profitable from an underwriting perspective. This commitment resulted in a significant erosion of our homeowners’ property insurance market share in 2009 and 2008, as compared with 2007. Although our pricing is inevitably influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, we believe that it is generally not in our shareholders’ best interest to compete solely on price. We compete based on underwriting criteria, our distribution network and superior service to our agents and insureds. We face increased competition from existing carriers and new entrants in our niche markets. As mentioned earlier, in an effort to foster competition after the hurricanes of 2004 and 2005, the State of Florida loaned money to multiple carriers with certain debt covenants, including the maintenance of minimum written premium. Our competition has attempted to gain market share through aggressive pricing and generous policy acquisition costs which has had an adverse affect on our ability to maintain market share. Although our pricing is inevitably influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, we believe that it is generally not in our best interest to compete solely on price. We compete on the basis of underwriting criteria, our distribution network and superior service to our agents and insureds. In Florida, more than 200 companies are authorized to underwrite homeowners’ insurance. National and regional companies that compete with us in the homeowners’ market include Allstate Insurance Company and First Floridian Insurance Company. In addition to these nationally recognized companies, we also compete with several Florida domestic property and casualty companies such as Universal Insurance Company of North America, Universal Property and Casualty Insurance Company, United Property and Casualty, Royal Palm Insurance Company, Edison Insurance Company, Olympus Insurance Company, St. Johns Insurance Company, Cypress Property and Casualty Insurance Company, Tower Hill Insurance Company, Florida Family Insurance Company, Homeowners Choice Property and Casualty Insurance Company and American Strategic Insurance Company. Companies which compete with us nationally in the commercial general liability insurance market include Century Surety Insurance Company, Atlantic Casualty Insurance Company, Colony Insurance Company and Burlington/First Financial Insurance Companies. Comparable companies in the personal automobile insurance market include U.S. Security Insurance Company, United Automobile Insurance Company, Direct General Insurance Company, Ocean Harbor Insurance Company, and Security National Insurance Company, as well as national insurers such as Progressive Casualty Insurance Company and GEICO. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not meet the prices offered by our competitors, we may lose business in the short term, which could also result in reduced revenues. - 34 - - 21st Century Holding Company Our senior management team is critical to the strategic direction of our company. If there were an unplanned loss of service by any of our officers our business could be harmed. We depend, and will continue to depend, on the services of our executive management team which includes Michael Braun, our Chief Executive Officer and President of 21st Century Holding Company and Federated National, and Peter Prygelski, our Chief Financial Officer. Our success also will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. If we were to lose the services of members of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel throughout our history. We have employment agreements with select members of our executive management team. Nevertheless, because of the executive management role and involvement in developing and implementing our current business strategy, any unplanned loss of service could substantially harm our business. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Shares We have authorized but unissued preferred stock, which could affect rights of holders of common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the preferred stock could be issued as a method of discouraging a takeover attempt. Although we do not intend to issue any preferred stock at this time, we may do so in the future. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Florida law may discourage takeover attempts and may result in entrenchment of management. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and may result in entrenchment of management. · Our board of directors is elected in classes, with only two or three of the directors elected each year. As a result, shareholders would not be able to change the membership of the board in its entirety in any one year. Shareholders would also be unable to bring about, through the election of a new board of directors, changes in our officers. · Our articles of incorporation prohibit shareholders from acting by written consent, meaning that shareholders will be required to conduct a meeting in order to vote on any proposals or take any action. · Our bylaws require at least 60 days' notice if a shareholder desires to submit a proposal for a shareholder vote or to nominate a person for election to our board of directors. In addition, Florida has enacted legislation that may deter or frustrate takeovers of Florida corporations, such as our company. · The Florida Control Share Act provides that shares acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation's disinterested shareholders. A "control share acquisition" is an acquisition, in whatever form, of voting power in any of the following ranges: (a) at least 20% but less than 33-1/3% of all voting power, (b) at least 33-1/3% but less than a majority of all voting power; or (c) a majority or more of all voting power. · The Florida Affiliated Transactions Act requires supermajority approval by disinterested shareholders of certain specified transactions between a public company and holders of more than 10% of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation (or their affiliates). As a holding company, we depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay management fees and dividends to the holding company as the primary source of our income. We are an insurance holding company whose primary assets are the stock of our subsidiaries. Our operations, and our ability to service future potential debt, are limited by the earnings of our subsidiaries and their payment of their earnings to us in the form of management fees, commissions, dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. These payments can be made only when our subsidiaries have adequate earnings. In addition, dividend payments made to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by Florida law governing the insurance industry. Generally, Florida law limits the dividends payable by insurance companies under complicated formulas based on the subsidiary's available capital and earnings. - 35 - - 21st Century Holding Company We may not continue making dividend payments on our common stock. During 2008 and 2007, we paid quarterly dividends of $0.18 per share. In the first quarter of 2009, we lowered our dividend to $0.06 per share. We cannot assure you that we will continue to make quarterly dividend payments. Payment of dividends in the future will depend on our earnings, financial position and such other factors, as our Board of Directors deems relevant. Moreover, our ability to continue to pay dividends may be restricted by regulatory limits on the amount of dividends that Federated National and American Vehicle are permitted to pay the parent company. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 