risk factors or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to expectations over time. We own the following trademarks: ADVANCED TASER®, CHECKLOK®, TASER®, XREP®, C2®, X3®, the bolt on West Hemisphere logo, the bolt on ball logo, the bolt on circle logo, and the bolt within circle logo, all registered in the US. All other trademarks and service marks including M18, M26, X26, X26C, AXON, EVIDENCE.COM, Shockwave, PROTECTOR, and designs belong to TASER International, Inc., except as expressly indicated as belonging to another. Item 1. Business Overview TASER International, Inc.’s (the Company or TASER or we or our) core mission is to protect life, prevent conflict and resolve disputes through technologies that make communities safer. We are a market leader in the development, manufacture and sale of advanced Electronic Control Devices (ECDs) designed for use in the law enforcement, military, corrections, private security and personal defense markets. Since our inception in 1993, we have remained committed to providing solutions to violent confrontation by developing devices with proprietary technology to incapacitate dangerous, combative, or high-risk subjects who pose a risk to law enforcement officers, innocent citizens, or themselves in a manner that is generally recognized as a safer alternative to other uses of force. TASER solutions deliver significant results to our customers and to communities in which they are deployed. With more than 275 independent studies confirming the safety of TASER ECDs relative to other force options, TASER ECDs have proven a safer alternative to other responses to resistance in situations of conflict. Further, most reporting agencies demonstrate overall decreases in use of force, and decreases in suspect and officer injuries resulting from conflict. Reducing uses of force and gaining compliance by use of a TASER ECD has provided significant reductions in worker’s compensation expenses and claims for excessive use of force for agencies, cities and taxpayers. Our mission to protect life also extends to preventing conflict and resolving disputes. We have learned that bringing a subject into custody is not the end of the challenge for law enforcement. Often, it is just the beginning since a significant number of incidents that start as a physical conflict transition into a legal conflict. Whether it’s prosecuting and convicting the individual arrested, or responding to excessive use of force allegations, the post-incident legal process is a considerable part of the challenge law enforcement faces on a continual basis and can often take years and millions of litigation dollars to resolve in the courtroom. To help law enforcement address this challenge, we have developed a fully integrated hardware and software solution that provides our law enforcement customers the capabilities to capture, store, manage, share and analyze video and other digital evidence. Finally, the optimum situation is to have prevented the conflict from ever escalating. TASER ECDs and AXON on-officer video have a measured and positive effect on better suspect and officer behavior, as well as achieving compliance without escalation of force. Central to our strategy, we conduct research and develop advanced technologies for both the creation of new, and the enhancement of existing, hardware and software products and services. We believe that delivering breakthrough innovation and high-value solutions through our various product platforms is the key to delivering compelling value propositions to meet our customers’ needs, and to drive our future growth. We place the highest level of importance on the safety and appropriate use of our products and have established industry leading training services to provide our users a comprehensive overview of the legal, policy, medical information and risk mitigation issues relating to our ECDs and the use of force. Our products are sold through a network of distribution channels developed for selling and marketing our products and services to law enforcement agencies, primarily in North America, with continuing focus and effort placed on expanding these programs in international, military and other markets. In order to facilitate sales and provide customer service to our European customers, we established TASER International Europe SE, a wholly owned subsidiary, in 2009. Our operations are comprised of one segment — the sale of advanced ECDs, accessories and other products and services. Information about sales by geographic region is included in footnote 1(p) of the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4 Table of Contents Products Electronic Control Devices (ECDs) Our Technology We make ECDs that use our proprietary Neuro Muscular Incapacitation (NMI) effects for two main types of market segments: (a) the law enforcement, military, corrections and professional security markets; and (b) the consumer market. Our products use a replaceable cartridge containing compressed nitrogen to deploy and propel two small probes that are attached to the ECD by insulated conductive wires with lengths ranging from 15 to 35 feet. Our ECDs transmit electrical pulses along the wires and into the body affecting the sensory and motor functions of the peripheral nervous system. The current can penetrate up to two cumulative inches of clothing, or approximately one inch per probe. The basic design is to provide time cycles that provide incapacitating effects that last in cycles of five seconds for our law enforcement, military and corrections products and up to thirty seconds for our consumer market models. This effect can be extended, if necessary, by the operator. Law Enforcement, Military, Corrections and Professional Security Products For the law enforcement, military, corrections and professional security markets, we manufacture three hand-held ECD product lines and have also incorporated our technology into several other product line extensions. Our most popular product is the TASER® X26™ with Shaped Pulse Technology™, which we introduced in 2003. Shaped Pulse Technology is a refined energy pulse that concentrates a small portion of energy to first penetrate any barriers, while the majority of the energy flows into the target freely after the barrier has been penetrated. The TASER X26 product line consists of the TASER X26, various cartridges (described below), a digital power magazine (DPM™) — the replaceable battery power supply, data download software and equipment, extended warranties, and a number of holstering options and accessories. The TASER X26 product line (excluding sales of the consumer TASER® X26C™ and individual cartridge sales) accounted for approximately $40.8 million, $53.4 million and $51.2 million, or 47%, 51% and 55% of our net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the third quarter of 2009, we introduced the TASER® X3™, which we believe represents a significant advancement in capabilities and features over our existing devices. The X3 is a revolutionary new multi-shot ECD that can engage three separate targets, display Warning Arcs while loaded, deliver a calibrated NMI pulse that results in improved safety characteristics and enhanced dataport logs known as the Trilogy Logs that include Event, Pulse, and Engineering Logs. While the TASER X3 offers enhanced firepower over existing ECDs, it also represents a significant leap in sensor and computation power — making it the most intelligent hand-held force option ever developed. The TASER X3 product line (excluding individual cartridge sales) accounted for approximately $2.3 million and $0.5 million, or approximately 3% and less than 1%, of our net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our third law enforcement product line is the ADVANCED TASER® M26™, which we originally launched in November 1999 and was the first TASER ECD featuring the NMI capability. The ADVANCED TASER M26 product line consists of the ADVANCED TASER M26, various cartridges (described below), rechargeable batteries, a battery charging system, data download software and equipment, extended warranties, and a number of holstering options and accessories. We will discontinue the sale of this product in North America beginning in 2011; however, it will continue to be available and will be supported for emerging international markets who wish to introduce our technology with a lower cost option. The ADVANCED TASER M26 product line (excluding individual cartridge sales) accounted for approximately $2.2 million, $3.3 million and $2.5 million, or approximately 3%, of our net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010 2009 and 2008, respectively ECD Product Line Extensions Over the past several years, we have developed more innovative methods to deploy our proprietary NMI technology, increasing the capabilities of our systems and extending the range at which they can be deployed. This resulted in two new products which were introduced to the market in 2009. The TASER eXtended Range Electronic Projectile (XREP™) is a self-contained, wireless (non-tethered) ECD that deploys from a 12-gauge pump-action shotgun. It delivers a similar NMI bio-effect as our X26 handheld ECD, but can be delivered to a maximum effective range of 100 feet (30.48 meters). The battery supply is fully integrated into the chassis and provides the power to the XREP round. While the XREP can be fired from a pump-action shotgun, we also partnered with Mossberg to develop the TASER® X12™ Less-Lethal Shotgun (LLS). The X12 is a Mossberg® 500 12-gauge shotgun modified for improved functioning with the XREP™. It is a fully integrated less-lethal platform. The TASER X12 includes Radial Key™ ammunition technology, which is a proprietary, patent-pending technology designed to prevent the TASER X12 from deploying lethal 12-gauge rounds, eliminating the possibility of an end user loading lethal ammunition during high-stress situations. 5 Table of Contents The TASER® Shockwave™ security system is the first generation of TASER® Remote Area Denial (TRAD™) technology allowing for both increased safety and stand-off capability during hostile situations through the use of our NMI technology. It is a manually activated TASER security system that simultaneously fires six TASER cartridges to saturate a 20-degree arc with 25-foot TASER cartridges. The Shockwave is designed as a fully modular system, allowing the end user complete flexibility to deploy as needed to achieve the desired objective. Multiple TASER Shockwave units can be stacked together either horizontally in order to extend area coverage, or vertically to allow multiple salvo engagements; or vertically to maximize either area coverage or cartridge pattern density. These features provide the capability to project area denial from a secure location. The system minimizes risk as the system can be activated with the push of a button on a control box at a safe stand-off distance of up to 100 meters. The TASER Shockwave unit deploys its cartridges up to 25-feet to instantaneously incapacitate multiple personnel within the field of deployment coverage. Consumer Products For the personal defense market our primary consumer product is the TASER® C2™ ECD, which we introduced in 2007. This device is a compact system that provides the same proven NMI effectiveness as our market leading TASER X26 but in a less intimidating, more compact form factor and at a price point more attractive to private citizens. Our sale and marketing of the TASER C2 promotes responsible ownership and aims to prevent misuse by keeping the device inactive until the owner has successfully completed identification verification. We also manufacture the TASER® X26C™, ADVANCED TASER® M18™ and ADVANCED TASER® M18L™ devices for use by consumers. The X26C was developed in conjunction with the law enforcement TASER X26 version; however, its effect lasts longer allowing the owner more time to escape danger. The ADVANCED TASER M18 and ADVANCED TASER M18L are designed after the law enforcement ADVANCED TASER M26 version; however, the electrical pulse rate is lower. The ADVANCED TASER M18 and ADVANCED TASER M18L are identical except that the ADVANCED TASER M18L has an integrated laser-aiming device. These three product lines consist of the units themselves, cartridges, batteries and digital power magazines, and a number of holstering options and accessories. Our total consumer products accounted for approximately $4.8 million, $5.9 million and $7.6 million, or 6%, 6% and 8% of our net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cartridges and Other Accessories We manufacture multiple cartridge types: a 15’ cartridge, a 21’ cartridge, a 25’ XP cartridge, a 35’ cartridge, a 21’ training cartridge, a 15’ cartridge for the C2, and in 2009, we introduced the new range of Smart Cartridges for use with the X3. The 15’ cartridge is capable of firing a distance of 15 feet and is sold primarily to the law enforcement market for training and the consumer market for use in the ADVANCED TASER M18, ADVANCED TASER M18L, and TASER X26C devices. The C2 15’ cartridge is designed specifically for use in the TASER C2. The 21’, 25’ XP, 35’, and 21’ training cartridges are sold only to the law enforcement, military, and corrections markets. The 25’ XP cartridge is different from the 21’ cartridge in that it has a longer range and its probes are longer and heavier, which allows it to penetrate a thicker clothing barrier. The training cartridge contains non-conductive wiring, which allows law enforcement, military, and corrections trainers to use the cartridge during training role-playing scenarios. The Smart Cartridges designed for the X3 come in a more compact profile to accommodate the 3-in-1 multi-shot capability of the X3, with ranges of 15’, 25’ and 35’. The Smart Cartridge communicates with the fire control system within the X3, indicating the type of cartridge loaded in each bay and its deployment status. The new static resistant propulsion system allows the X3 to display NMI arcs without firing the cartridge — which also reduces the risk of accidental static discharge misfires. All of our cartridges, with the exception of the training cartridge, contain numerous colored, confetti-like tags bearing the cartridge’s serial number. These tags, referred to as Anti-Felon Identification tags, or AFIDs, are scattered when one of our cartridges is deployed. We require sellers of our products to participate in the AFID program by registering buyers of our cartridges. In many cases, we can use AFIDs to identify the registered owner of cartridges deployed. Individual cartridge sales accounted for approximately $22.0 million, $27.9 million and $20.5 million, or approximately 25%, 27% and 22%of our net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In 2009, we introduced the TASER® Controlled Digital Power Magazine (CDPM™), a new accessory for the TASER X26 ECD. The CDPM has the same functionality as a regular DPM; however, the CDPM features a disabling safety key and wrist strap lanyard designed to secure the device to the officer. If a prisoner or suspect attempts to take the TASER X26 device away, the lanyard pulls the safety key connection away from the unit. If the key is separated for more than two seconds, the system instantly deactivates the TASER X26 and requires a password to reactivate it. 6 Table of Contents In 2006, we launched an accessory to the X26 called the TASER® Cam™ recorder. The TASER Cam is a video recording device that captures both video and audio of potential and actual TASER use incidents. The device can capture video and audio before, during and after a TASER deployment, which provides law enforcement with a greater level of accountability to support their use of TASER devices against a resistant subject. The TASER Cam is capable of recording in zero light conditions through the use of an infrared illuminator. A non-audio version of the device is also available for agencies operating in states where legislation prohibits the use of audio recordings. In 2004, we introduced the X-Rail™ mount as an accessory designed to attach an X26 ECD to a Picatinny rail (MIL-STD-1913 rail) providing law enforcement and military the ability to combine TASER technology with their firearms giving the user lethal and non-lethal options on the same weapon. AXON and EVIDENCE.COM In 2008 and 2009, we devoted significant resources to the design and development of our new end-to-end on-officer video and digital evidence management solution —TASER AXON™ tactical computer and EVIDENCE.COM™. The AXON tactical computer (ATC) combines advanced audio-video record/capture capabilities worn by first responders. An audio-video earpiece, imager, speaker and microphone integrates into the communications loop between existing radios and the communications headset, recording video of critical incidents from the visual perspective of the officer. AXON significantly improves officer efficiency by reducing report documentation workload while increasing accuracy and accountability. EVIDENCE.COM is a virtual evidence management system and warehouse, offering digital evidence management, sharing, analysis and storage in a highly secure, easily accessible environment. From EVIDENCE.COM, both agencies and legal professionals may quickly and securely access key evidence data without the difficult and sometimes-impossible inventory searches common to existing evidence management and storage methods. They can also view uploaded TASER X3 ECD trilogy logs including firing, pulse and engineering data. We launched initial field trials of the AXON and EVIDENCE.COM in the fourth quarter of 2009, and completed a number of trials in 2010 which resulted in several agency deployments. We anticipate an increasing volume of similar trial programs in 2011 and believe these trial programs are the best way for our customers to see the powerful capabilities, benefits and strong return on investment of the value proposition of this technology for themselves. Product Warranties We offer a one year limited warranty on all of the TASER X3, TASER X26 and ADVANCED TASER devices. After the warranty expires, if the device fails to operate properly for any reason, we will replace the TASER X3 and X26 at a discounted price depending on when the product was placed in service. These fees are intended to cover the handling and repair costs and include a profit. We believe this policy is attractive to our law enforcement, military, and corrections agency customers. In particular, it avoids disputes regarding the source or cause of any defect. Extended warranties, which provide additional coverage beyond the limited warranty, ranging from one to four years, are also offered at specified fees. We offer a 90-day limited warranty on the TASER C2 and the X26C devices. Our TASER C2 and the X26C are designed to disable an attacker for up to 30 seconds. We encourage private citizens to leave the units and flee after firing them. As a result, we also provide free replacement units to private citizens who follow this suggested procedure. To qualify for the replacement unit, users must file a police report that describes the incident and confirms the use of the TASER C2 or the X26C. The AXON ATC comes with a one year standard warranty, while the head cam, communications hub and cabling are warranted for 90 days. The TASER Cam is warranted for one year. Markets Law Enforcement and Corrections Federal, state and local law enforcement agencies in the United States and throughout the world currently represent the primary target market for our TASER ECDs. In the law enforcement market, more than 16,000 law enforcement agencies in more than 40 countries have made initial purchases of our TASER brand devices for testing or deployment. 7 Table of Contents We continue to deploy resources for educating correctional facility personnel as well as parole and probation field officers in the benefits of using TASER brand products. We have developed training programs and command staff demonstrations specific to the corrections market and we attended several corrections tradeshows and conferences to expand our reach into the market. Our TASER devices are deployed in county correctional facilities such as those operated by the Los Angeles Custody Division and the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office (AZ). State correctional agencies deploying TASER devices include Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky, Louisiana, Montana, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, Tennessee, Utah, Washington, and Wisconsin. Military Forces, both United States and Foreign Allies TASER devices continued to be deployed in support of key strategic military operations in locations around the world. We continued our focus initiative on supporting our military customers. The former head of the Military Joint Non Lethal Weapons Directorate is our Vice President of Government and Military Programs, and we meet quarterly with our Senior Executive Advisory Group (SEAG) comprised of a team of professionals with extensive military, homeland defense and law enforcement experience with the purpose of advising on business models in support of military users. The business group (Federal Programs) has concentrated on supporting military and other federal use of our existing products as well as developing new technology through contracted support. In 2008, we entered into a science and technology contract with the Joint Non-Lethal Weapons Directorate (JNLWD) of the U.S Department of Defense to develop a 40mm projectile, compatible with already fielded weapons, which allows for extension and improvement of the our existing eXtended Range Electronic Projectile (XREP) technology. The development contract comprised three phases, each of which were successfully completed between 2008 and 2010. Private Security We still continue to pursue opportunities for sales of TASER devices in private security markets; however, we have made limited sales to date. Private security officers represent a broad range of individuals, including contract security patrol, healthcare, gaming, retail security employees and many others. Similar to our other emerging markets, we have developed training programs and demonstrations specific to the industry by meeting with several large corporate and private patrol security companies to discover their unique needs. We also attended several private security tradeshows, conferences and industry association meetings to generate a presence in this market space. Private Citizen / Personal Protection In July 2007, we introduced the TASER C2 personal protection device, specifically designed for the private citizen market. This consumer product combined with other consumer offerings, contributed approximately 5%, 6% and 8% of our total net sales in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. While it has been a challenge generating product traction in a difficult economic climate for consumers, we believe private citizen sales will continue to be a steady contributor to our business in 2011 as a result of various distribution relationships and marketing strategies we have put in place to continue to promote awareness of the TASER C2 in the consumer market. Sales and Marketing Law enforcement, federal / military, corrections and security agencies represent our primary target markets. In each of these markets, the decision to purchase TASER ECDs is normally made by a group of people, including the agency head; the agency’s training staff, and agency weapons experts. Depending on the size and cost of the device deployment and local procurement rules and customs, the decision may involve political decision-makers such as city council members or the federal government. The decision-making process can take as little as a few weeks or as long as several years. Although we have focused on three primary markets, we have been able to expand our customer base to thousands of end users within these markets. We currently sell our products to more than 16,000 law enforcement agencies. 8 Table of Contents Since the introduction of the ADVANCED TASER M26 in 1999, we have used multiple types of media to communicate the benefits of acquiring and deploying our products. These campaigns have included the development of personalized CD/DVD packages geared toward law enforcement leaders in the community, web and print advertisements in law enforcement publications, and the use of more than 2,600 training classes conducted around the world, and more recently in the case of the TASER X3 an integrated online media launch including a dedicated website. We also target key regional and national law enforcement trade shows where we can demonstrate the TASER devices to leading departments. In 2010, we attended and exhibited at 75 regional, national and international law enforcement trade shows. We also held our annual TASER Conference as part of our certified master instructor school, the continued focus of which was to train the officers in the use of all of the latest ECDs and other new products. We plan to continue investment in web activities (search, advertising and social media), public relations and law enforcement trade shows and conferences in 2011, as it provides us the ability to market our products to our target audience. We believe these types of activities accelerate penetration of our TASER product lines in each market, which should lead to increased visibility in both the private security and private citizen markets and reinforce the value of non-lethal devices for self-defense. United States Distribution With the exception of several accounts to which we sell directly, the vast majority of our law enforcement agency sales in the United States are made through our network of law enforcement distributors. In addition, we have one military and federal government contracting distributor. These distributors were selected based upon their reputation within their respective industries, their contacts, and their distribution network. Our regional managers work closely with the distributors in their territory to inform and educate the law enforcement communities. We continue to monitor our law enforcement distributors closely to help ensure that our service standards are achieved. We also reserve the right to take any large agency order directly to secure the agency’s account balance with us. Sales in the private citizen market are primarily made through our commercial distributors and our web site, iTASER.com. We have also established relationships selling to sporting goods retail chains. We have implemented a variety of marketing initiatives to support sales of the TASER C2 personal protection device, with a focus on web, public relations and consumer trade shows. We hired a professional digital media marketing firm and a separate public relations company to assist us in media and press events, and editorial placements along with attending numerous tradeshows specifically to target the consumer market. We continue to sell all other TASER citizen devices and products through web sales and our established commercial distributors. International Distribution We market and distribute our products to foreign markets through a network of distributors. For geographical and cultural reasons, our distributors usually have a territory defined by their country’s borders. These distributors market both our law enforcement, military, and corrections products, and our consumer products where allowed by law. Our distributors work with local law enforcement, military, and corrections agencies in the same manner as our domestic market distributors. For example, they perform demonstrations, attend industry tradeshows, maintain country specific web sites, engage in print advertising, and arrange training classes. Training Programs Most law enforcement, military, security and corrections agencies will not purchase new weapons until a training program is in place to instruct and certify personnel in their proper use. We offer a 20 hour class that certifies law enforcement, military, corrections and security agency trainers as instructors in the use of TASER ECDs. We have partnered with the Northeast Wisconsin Technical College (NWTC) to provide an online learning opportunity for new and re-certifying TASER instructors. As of December 31, 2010, over 46,200 law enforcement officers around the world have been trained and certified as instructors in the proper use of TASER brand devices. This includes approximately 41,400 officers in the United States and 4,800 in other countries. 9 Table of Contents Currently, 1,979 of our certified instructors have undergone further training and became certified as master instructors. 1,421 were certified in the US and 558 were international. We authorize these individuals to train and certify other law enforcement, military, corrections and professional security agency trainers as TASER instructors, not just end users within their own organization. The Master Instructors are independent professional trainers, serve as local area TASER experts, and assist in conducting TASER demonstrations at other police departments within their regions. In addition, 207 of our certified instructors have completed the same training and were certified as Advanced Instructors. Advanced Instructors are authorized to certify others within their own agency as TASER instructors. From 2001 — 2008, TASER has held one Master Instructor School per year. Due to increased demand, in 2009 we started scheduling two Master Instructor Schools each year in the US, one in the East and one in the West to accommodate customer requests. The fee for attending the Master Instructor School is $695. Military personnel are trained by our Chief Instructor. Approximately 170 of our Master Instructors have agreed to conduct TASER device training classes on a regular basis. We provide logistical support for the training classes. We charge a fee of $350 for each training attendee who is being certified for the first time and $175 for recertification. We pay Master Instructors a per-session training fee for each session they conduct. We conducted 450 training courses in 2010 and as of December 31, 2010, we have conducted a cumulative 2,611 training courses during which we have trained more than 46,200 individuals as instructors for TASER ECD’s. In 2005, we started a TASER Technician course to train agencies on proper care and preventative maintenance of TASER devices. We charge a fee of $275 to each attendee. In 2010, we hosted 29 Technician courses, including 26 in the United States and 3 internationally; 337 students attended the Technician course in the United States and 36 attended in other countries. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 2,300 people have been trained and certified as TASER Technicians in 131 courses. In 2008, we started offering a TASER Evidence Collection and Analysis (“ECA”) course to teach investigators how to collect and analyze TASER ECD related evidence at a crime scene. In 2010 we conducted 25 such ECA courses in the United States and trained 226 people, and one course internationally for 10 people. As of December 31, 2010, we have conducted 41 ECA courses and trained 352 people. The fee for the ECA course is $150 per student. We have also designed a training course for private citizen customers. Customers who purchase an X26C device receive a certificate good for a one hour, one-on-one training session with an X26C certified instructor. We have 836 instructors certified to give the X26C training. In the first quarter of 2011 we will launch a new online training course for consumer instructors. This course focuses on non-law enforcement private self-defense training schools that have expressed a desire to include TASER consumer products in their courses. The course fee will be $99. In December 2010 we launched an online TASER ECD End User course through NWTC. The fee is $30 per student. In order to coordinate the growing demands of our training programs, we created a Training Advisory Board. This board annually reviews the qualifications of the master instructors, and provides retraining or certification as required. In addition, the Training Advisory Board oversees the trainers and curriculum to ensure that new information is properly communicated and implemented. The Training Advisory Board also gives input into new product development. We also created the position of Senior Master Instructor. Twenty four experienced Master Instructors have been promoted to this position based on their exemplary performance as Master Instructors. Their primary duties are to perform quality control checks on Master Instructors during an instructor course and to help instruct at the Master Instructor School. Additionally, we employ one staff Instructor who is a full-time employee responsible for coordinating course delivery and development. We also employ a Director of Training Operations who oversees the day to day operation of the department, coordinates major training events, assists with course development and delivery, and supervises the clerical staff. Manufacturing We perform light manufacturing and final assembly operations at our headquarters in Scottsdale, Arizona and own substantially all of the equipment required to develop, prototype, manufacture and assemble our finished products. This includes critical injection molds, schematics, test equipment and prototypes utilized by our supply chain for the production of required raw materials and sub-assemblies. We have implemented lean/six sigma methodologies to optimize all direct and indirect resources within the organization which has helped to boost capacity for existing products, as well as provide the flexibility to accommodate production of new TASER product introductions. We are currently operating a single production shift; however, other capacity options, including the use of multiple shifts, will be considered should we experience higher demand resulting from large orders of legacy or new product releases. We continue to maintain our ISO 9001 certification. Our XREP product is considered a firearm due to the propellant used to launch it from a firearm. We have a Class 7 Federal Firearms license to manufacture, store and sell XREP and related products. We lease facilities from a local third party who specializes in defense products and provides facilities, ensuring compliance to required firearm and dangerous good standards. 10 Table of Contents We continuously seek opportunities to invest in automated equipment for the continuous improvement of product quality and reduction of manufacturing costs. As a result, we have implemented a number of equipment initiatives including the purchase and integration of robotic equipment, computerized laboratory and medical testing equipment, machining and tooling equipment, as well as sophisticated modeling equipment for our Research and Development Department. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we completed an ambitious undertaking with the final installation of our highly automated cartridge assembly line which, in 2010, has improved both our production capacity and yields, while significantly improving efficiency over what was previously a very labor-intensive manufacturing process. Supply chain management has and will continue to be a focus for us. We presently purchase completed Printed Circuit Board Assemblies (PCBA’s) and components primarily from suppliers located in the United States, along with selective strategic relationships internationally. Although we currently obtain plastic components from an outside supplier base, we own all the designs and tooling. We believe there are readily available qualified alternative suppliers in most cases who can consistently meet our needs for these components. We continue to develop and implement policies to mitigate supply chain risk and ensure continuity of supply, while maintaining efficiencies at all levels within the organization. Competition Law Enforcement, Corrections and Private Security Markets The primary competitive factors in the law enforcement and corrections market include a weapon’s accuracy, effectiveness, safety, cost and ease of use. Stinger Systems, introduced an electronic device in 2007 to compete with the TASER X26; however, they had limited success before going out of business in 2010. Stinger Systems subsequently sold its assets to Karbon Arms. We are not aware of any significant sales to date. We were granted summary judgment in a patent infringement claim against Stinger Systems in 2010 and an injunction was issued against Stinger Systems in August 2010. We believe that our strong relationship with customers, our large installed base of products, and the significant amount of medical and safety testing already performed on our products will provide us with a strong competitive advantage over our competition. We also believe the ADVANCED TASER, TASER X26 and TASER X3 devices compete indirectly with a variety of non-lethal alternatives. These alternatives include, but are not limited to, pepper spray and impact weapons sold by companies such as Defense Technology, and PepperBall Technologies, Inc. We believe our TASER brand devices’ advanced technology, versatility, effectiveness, built-in accountability systems, and low injury rate enable it to compete effectively against these less-lethal alternatives. Military Market In the military markets, both in the United States and abroad, a wide variety of weapon systems are utilized to accomplish the mission at hand. Conducted energy devices have gained increased acceptance as a result of the policing role of military personnel in the conflicts in both Iraq and Afghanistan. There has also been an increased awareness of the use of non-lethal weapons to preserve human intelligence. TASER ECDs give our armed forces one means to capture or immobilize targets without using lethal force. We are the only supplier providing ECDs to these military agencies. There is indirect competition from pepper spray and impact weapons sold by companies such as Defense Technology and PepperBall Technologies, Inc. Private Citizen Market Electronic control devices have gained limited acceptance in the private citizen market. These devices compete with other less lethal weapons such as batons, clubs, and chemical sprays as well as lethal force options. The primary competitive factors in the private citizen market include a weapon’s cost, effectiveness, safety and ease of use. We believe the widespread adoption of our TASER devices by prominent law enforcement agencies will help us to further penetrate the private citizen market. Video Evidence Market As we move into the video evidence capture and storage market segment, we are directly competing in a highly fragmented and competitive market against companies with an established presence such as the in-car video market. We believe our AXON product, which places the camera directly on-officer, overcomes some of the inherent limitations that an in-car system brings. When combined with our EVIDENCE.COM service to store, manage and analyze video events, we believe our end-to-end solution is a compelling value proposition for law enforcement agencies to evaluate. 11 Table of Contents Regulation United States Regulation The TASER X26, TASER X3, ADVANCED TASER, TASER C2, SHOCKWAVE and AIR TASER 34000™ devices, as well as the cartridges used by these devices, are subject to regulations; however, none are considered to be a “firearm” by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The TASER XREP, however, does use a propellant system which falls under the definition of a “firearm” and is, therefore, subject to Federal firearms-related regulations specifically applying to the sale and distribution of these devices within the United States. In the 1980s many states adopted regulations restricting the sale and use of stun guns, inexpensive hand-held shock devices and electronic weapons. We believe existing stun gun laws and regulations also apply to our devices. In 2009, New Jersey’s Attorney General approved a supplemental use of force policy which allows law enforcement officers in New Jersey to use electronic stun devices in limited circumstances involving emotionally disturbed individuals. This policy also limits the number of patrol officers per agency who carry electronic control devices. Prior to 2009, New Jersey was the only state to prohibit the use of ECD’s and stun devices by law enforcement. In 2002 through 2004, we worked with several law enforcement agencies, government agencies and distributors to overturn prior legislation preventing the sale of TASER devices to law enforcement agencies in certain regions of the U.S. These combined efforts were successful in changing the legislation in the states of Hawaii, Massachusetts and Michigan. In many cases, the law enforcement and corrections market is subject to different regulations than the private citizen market. Where different regulations exist, we assume the regulations affecting the private citizen market also apply to the private security markets except as the applicable regulations otherwise specifically provide. As of December 31, 2010, state and local codes prohibit the possession of stun guns, including TASER ECDs by the general public in Hawaii, Wisconsin, Michigan, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey and the District of Columbia as well as a number of counties, cities and towns. We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations, including restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Reference is made to Section 1A, Risk Factors under the heading “Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs”. Our EVIDENCE.COM SaaS online offering is subject to government regulation of the internet in many areas, including telecommunications, data protection, user privacy and online content. United States Export Regulation Our ECDs are considered a crime control product by the U.S. Government. Accordingly, the export of our devices is regulated under export administration regulations. As a result, we must obtain export licenses from the Department of Commerce for all shipments to foreign countries other than Canada. Most of our requests for export licenses have been granted, and the need to obtain these licenses has not caused a material delay in our shipments. The need to obtain licenses, however, has limited or impeded our ability to ship to certain foreign markets. Export regulations also prohibit the further shipment of our products from foreign markets in which we hold a valid export license to foreign markets in which we do not hold an export license for our products. In addition, in 2000, the Department of Commerce adopted regulations restricting the export of technology used in our devices. These regulations apply to both the technology incorporated in our device systems and in the processes used to produce them. The technology export regulations do not apply to production that takes place within the United States, but is applicable to all sub-assemblies and controlled items manufactured outside the United States. Foreign Regulation Foreign regulations, which may affect our devices, are numerous and often unclear. We prefer to work with a distributor who is familiar with the applicable import regulations in each of our foreign markets. Experience with foreign distributors in the past indicates that restrictions may prohibit certain sales of our products in a number of countries. The vast majority of countries permit TASER devices to be sold and used by law enforcement. We rely on our distributors to inform us of those countries where the TASER device is prohibited or restricted. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property with U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks. Our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products. We also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2010, we hold 47 United States patents and 55 foreign patents and also have numerous patents and trademarks pending. Our patents expire at varying dates ranging between 2014 and 2029. The earliest expiring US patent covers an aiming system having two angled laser light sources, one for the top dart and one for the lower dart. This technology is used in the X3 ECD. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors’ operations in particular countries and regions; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. Confidentiality agreements are used with employees, consultants and key suppliers to help ensure the confidentiality of our trade secrets. TASER has the exclusive rights to many internet domain names primarily including ‘TASER.com’ and ‘EVIDENCE.COM’. Research and Development Our research and development initiatives are conducted in two separate categories. The first is internally funded research and development, and the second is research externally funded by customers having requirements for specific capabilities. Both categories focus on next generation technology, yet are differentiated by the anticipated breadth of the market opportunity, the time to project completion and accounting treatment. Internally funded research has been primarily focused on improvements to existing TASER products, or the development of new applications for TASER technology that we believe generally will have broad market appeal. Externally funded work focuses on specific packaging or delivery requirements of existing TASER technology that is of high value to particular customers but may not be viable product solutions to other customers. These projects generally represent product developments which are long-term in nature and require external resources, development using outside companies or expert consulting. Research and development initiatives include bio-medical research and electrical, mechanical and software engineering. We expect that future development projects will focus on extending the range, improving the functionality and developing new delivery options for our ECD products. In addition, during 2009 and 2010 we devoted significant resources to the development of AXON and EVIDENCE.COM and have established a dedicated software development team in Carpenteria, CA to plan, develop, test and support the operation of our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) product. Our investment in internally funded research and development totaled approximately $11.4 million, $20.0 million and $12.9 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our investment in research and development staff and equipment continues to represent a significant increase from previous years and reflects our commitment to maintaining and extending our current technology. Our return on that investment is intended to be realized over the long term, although new systems and technologies often have a more immediate impact on our business. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 320 full-time employees and 45 temporary employees. The breakdown of our full-time employees by department is as follows: 129 direct manufacturing employees and 191 administrative and manufacturing support employees. Of the 191 administrative and manufacturing support employees, 51 were involved in sales, marketing, communications and training; 62 were employed in research, development, TASER Virtual Systems and engineering; 28 were employed in administrative functions inclusive of executive management, legal, finance and accounting; 8 were employed in information systems technologies; 11 were employed in quality control and 31 were employed in manufacturing support functions. Our employees are not covered by any collective bargaining agreement, and we have never experienced a work stoppage. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available Information We were incorporated in Arizona in September 1993 as an ICER Corporation. We changed our name to AIR TASER, Inc. in December 1993 and to TASER International, Incorporated in April 1998. In January 2001, we reincorporated in Delaware as TASER International, Inc. Our website is located at www.TASER.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. Other information that is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K can be accessed through our website at www.TASER.com. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, our past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate our results or trends in future periods. We are materially dependent on acceptance of our products by the law enforcement, both domestic and international, and federal markets. If law enforcement agencies do not continue to purchase our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. A substantial number of law enforcement and corrections agencies may not purchase our electronic control devices. Law enforcement and corrections agencies may be influenced by claims or perceptions that ECDs such as our products are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner. In addition, earlier generation conducted energy devices may have been perceived as ineffective. Sales of our products to these agencies may also be delayed or limited by these claims or perceptions. Most of our end-user customers are subject to budgetary and political constraints, particularly in the currently challenging economic environment, that may delay or prevent sales. Most of our end-user customers are government agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore, have limited control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if an agency wants to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. Currently, many governmental agencies are continuing to experience severe budgetary constraints. There can be no assurance that the economic and budgeting issues will not worsen and adversely impact sales of our products. Some government agency orders may also be canceled or substantially delayed due to budgetary, political or other scheduling delays which frequently occur in connection with the acquisition of products by such agencies and such cancellations may accelerate or be more severe than we have experienced historically as a result of the current economic environment. We may face personal injury, wrongful death and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our products are often used in aggressive confrontations that may result in serious, permanent bodily injury or death to those involved. Our products may be associated with these injuries. A person injured in a confrontation or otherwise in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, wrongful death, negligent design, defective product or inadequate warning. We are currently subject to a number of such lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. If successful, personal injury, misuse and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could result in negative publicity about our products. Although we carry product liability insurance, we do incur significant legal expenses within our self-insured retention in defending these lawsuits and significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources, negative publicity and a potential award of monetary damages in excess of our insurance coverage. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that our existing or any future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our financial condition or financial results. We substantially depend on sales of our TASER X26 ECDs, and if these products do not continue to be widely accepted, our growth prospects will be diminished. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we derived our revenues predominantly from sales of the TASER X26 brand devices and related cartridges, and expect to depend on sales of these products for the foreseeable future. A decrease in the prices of or demand for these products, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth, our prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our product and service lines and our manufacturing capacity as needed to meet future demand. Any significant expansion may strain our managerial, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will need to continually improve our operations, financial and other internal systems to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may lead to inefficiencies and redundancies, and result in reduced growth prospects and profitability. To the extent demand for our products increases, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to ramp manufacturing production capacity which may be accomplished by the implementation of customized manufacturing automation equipment. To the extent demand for our products increases significantly in future periods, one of our key challenges will be to ramp our production capacity to meet sales demand, while maintaining product quality. Our primary strategies to accomplish this include introducing additional shifts, increasing the physical size of our assembly facilities, the hiring of additional production staff, and the implementation of customized automation equipment. The investments we make in this equipment may not yield the anticipated labor and material efficiencies. Our inability to meet any future increase in sales demand or effectively manage our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and financial condition. Pending litigation may subject us to significant litigation costs, judgments, fines and penalties in excess of insurance coverage, and divert management attention from our business. We are involved in numerous litigation matters relating to our products or the use of such products, litigation against persons who we believe have defamed our products, litigation against medical examiners who made errors in their autopsy reports, litigation against a competitor and litigation against former employees. Such matters have resulted and are expected to continue to result in substantial costs to us and some diversion of our management’s attention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to expand sales through distributors and our inability to recruit new distributors would negatively affect our sales. Our distribution strategy is to pursue sales through multiple channels with an emphasis on independent distributors. Our inability to establish relationships with and retain law enforcement equipment distributors who we believe can successfully sell our products would adversely affect our sales. In addition, our arrangements with our distributors are generally short-term. If we do not competitively price our products, meet the requirements of our distributors or end-users, provide adequate marketing support, or comply with the terms of our distribution arrangements, our distributors may fail to aggressively market our products or may terminate their relationships with us. These developments would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our reliance on the sales of our products by others also makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash flow and operating results. The success of our EVIDENCE.COM software as a service delivery model is materially dependent on acceptance of this business model by our law enforcement customers. Delayed or lengthy time to adoption by law enforcement agencies will negatively impact our sales and profitability. A substantial number of law enforcement agencies may be slow to adopt our EVIDENCE.COM digital data evidence management and storage solution, requiring extended periods of trial and evaluation. The hosted service delivery business model is not presently widely adopted by our law enforcement customer base. As such the sales cycle has additional complexity with the need to educate our customers and address issues regarding agency bandwidth requirements, data retention policies, data security and chain of custody. Delays in successfully securing widespread adoption of EVIDENCE.COM could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to design, introduce and sell new products or new product features successfully, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products or new product features that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new products and new product features is complex, time consuming and expensive, and we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We cannot provide any assurance that products that we may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop new products or new product features on a timely basis that achieve market acceptance, our business, financial results and competitive position could be adversely affected. Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development of software products such as EVIDENCE.COM is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on our Software-as-a-Service platform also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don’t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. We expend significant resources in anticipation of a sale due to our lengthy sales cycle and may receive no revenue in return. Generally, law enforcement and corrections agencies consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, training costs, the cost to use our products in addition to or in place of other non-lethal products, budget constraints and product reliability, safety and efficacy. The length of our sales cycle may range from a few weeks to as long as several years. Adverse publicity surrounding our products or the safety of such products has in the past and could in the future lengthen our sales cycle with customers. In the past, we believe we have experienced revenue decreases in part as the result of adverse effects on our customers and potential customers of negative publicity surrounding our products or use of our products. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and received no revenue in return. Government regulation of our products may adversely affect sales. Federal regulation of sales in the United States: With the exceptions of the TASER XREP, our ECDs are not firearms regulated by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, but are consumer products regulated by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission. Although there are currently no federal laws restricting sales of our core ECD products in the United States, future federal regulation could adversely affect sales of our products. Federal regulation of international sales: Our devices are controlled as a “crime control” product by the U.S. Department of Commerce, or DOC, for export directly from the United States. Consequently, we must obtain an export license from the DOC for the export of our devices from the United States other than to Canada. Our inability to obtain DOC export licenses on a timely basis for sales of our devices to our international customers could significantly and adversely affect our international sales. 16 Table of Contents State and local regulation: Our devices are controlled, restricted or their use prohibited by a number of state and local governments. Our devices are banned from private citizen sale or use in seven states: New York, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Michigan, Wisconsin, Massachusetts and Hawaii. Some municipalities, including Omaha, Nebraska and Washington, D.C., also prohibit private citizen use of our products. Other jurisdictions may ban or restrict the sale of our products and our product sales may be significantly affected by additional state, county and city governmental regulation. Foreign regulation: Certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit the sale of ECDs such as our products, limiting our international sales opportunities. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. Environmental legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these requirements. The EU has published Directives on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the RoHS Directive) and on electronic and electrical waste management (the WEEE Directive). The RoHS Directive restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. The WEEE Directive directs members of the European Union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the U.S. (under federal and state laws) and other countries, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. We continue to monitor the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by the RoHS and WEEE Directives. We endeavor to comply with applicable environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs; increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacturing; limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory; limit our sales activities; and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose a competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. Our future success depends upon our proprietary technology. Our protective measures, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, and internet identity registrations, may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights and market advantage. The right to stop others from misusing our trademarks and service marks in commerce depends to some extent on our ability to show evidence of enforcement of our rights against such misuse in commerce. Our efforts to stop improper use, if insufficient, may lead to loss of trademark and service mark rights, brand loyalty and notoriety among our customers and prospective customers. The scope of any patent to which we have or may obtain rights may not prevent others from developing and selling competing products. The validity and breadth of claims covered in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions, and the resolution of such claims may be highly uncertain, lengthy and expensive. In addition, our patents may be held invalid upon challenge, or others may claim rights in or ownership of our patents. We have a judgment of patent infringement against Stinger Systems as to our U.S. patent 6,999,295, claims 2 and 40. The validity of claims 2 and 40 of U.S. patent 6,999,295 is being re-examined by the USPTO in an ex parte proceeding. The outcome of this proceeding cannot be predicted. Stinger Systems has sold its business to Karbon Arms. Delays in obtaining the product of Karbon Arms for infringement analysis may delay our ability to stop unlawful competition. 17 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management attention from our business. Any intellectual property infringement claims against us, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and divert our management’s attention from our business. If our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be forced to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to be able to sell our products or discontinue use of the protected technology. Such royalty and licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we face competition in foreign countries, we can enforce patent rights only in the jurisdictions in which our patent applications have been granted. Our U.S. patents protect us from imported infringing products coming into the U.S. from abroad. Applications for patents in a few foreign countries have been made; however, these may be inadequate to protect markets for our products in other foreign countries. Each foreign patent is examined and granted according to the law of the country where it was filed independent of whether a U.S. patent on similar technology was granted. A patent in a foreign country may be subject to cancellation if the claimed invention is not worked in that country. Meeting the requirements of working the invention differs by country and ranges from sales in the country to manufacturing in the country. U.S. export law or the laws of some foreign countries may prohibit us from satisfying the requirements for working the invention, creating a risk that some of our foreign patents may become unenforceable. Our efforts to avoid the patent, trademark, and copyright rights of others may not provide notice to us of potential infringements in time to avoid investing in product development and promotion that must later be abandoned if suitable license terms cannot be reached. There is no guarantee that our use of conventional technology searching and brand clearance searching will identify all potential rights holders. Rights holders may demand payment for past infringements and/or force us to accept costly license terms or discontinue use of protected technology and/or works of authorship that may include, for example, photos, videos, and software. Our current research and development focus on developing software-based products increases this risk. Government regulations applied to our products may affect our markets for these products. We rely on the opinions of The Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, including the determination that a device that has projectiles propelled by the release of compressed gas in place of the expanding gases from ignited gunpowder, are not classified as firearms. Changes in statutes, regulations, and interpretation outside of our control may result in our products being classified or reclassified as firearms. Our private citizen market could be substantially reduced if consumers are required to obtain a registration to own a firearm prior to purchasing our products. Defects in our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at any point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased warranty costs which could have a material adverse effect on profitability and financial condition We face risks associated with rapid technological change and new competing products. The technology associated with non-lethal devices is receiving significant attention and is rapidly evolving. While we have patent protection in key areas of electro-muscular disruption technology, it is possible that new non-lethal technology may result in competing products that operate outside our patents and could present significant competition for our products. 18 Table of Contents Our dependence on third party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or sub-assemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of sub-assemblies, machined parts, injection molded plastic parts, printed circuit boards, custom wire fabrications and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Component shortages could result in our inability to produce volume to adequately meet customer demand, which could result in a loss of sales, delay in deliveries and injury to our reputation. Single or sole-source components used in the manufacture of our products may become unavailable or discontinued. Delays caused by industry allocations or obsolescence may take weeks or months to resolve. In some cases, parts obsolescence may require a product re-design to ensure quality replacement components. These delays could cause significant delays in manufacturing and loss of sales, leading to adverse effects significantly impacting our financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence on foreign suppliers for key components of our products could delay shipment of our finished products and reduce our sales. We depend on foreign suppliers for the delivery of certain components used in the assembly of our products. Due to changes imposed for imports of foreign products into the United States, as well as potential port closures and delays created by terrorist threats, public health issues or national disasters, we are exposed to risk of delays caused by freight carriers or customs clearance issues for our imported parts. Delays caused by our inability to obtain components for assembly could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. We may experience a decline in gross margins due to rising raw material and transportation costs associated with a future increase in petroleum prices. A significant number of our raw materials are comprised of petroleum-based products, or incur some form of landed cost associated with transporting the raw materials or components to our facility. A significant rise in oil prices could adversely impact our ability to sustain current gross margins, by increasing component pricing. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. Our software-related research and development and primary EVIDENCE.COM data center are located in Southern California, located near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Security vulnerabilities in our EVIDENCE.COM service could lead to reduced revenues or to liability claims. Maintaining the security of our EVIDENCE.COM computer equipment, networks, and the evidentiary data stored and managed on them is a critical issue for us and our customers. Hackers may develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack or gain access to our networks and data centers. We devote significant resources to engineer secure products and ensure security vulnerabilities are mitigated. Despite these efforts, any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our service could lead some customers to seek to cancel service, to reduce or delay future purchases, or to use competing products. In addition, if third parties gain access to our networks or data centers they could attempt to obtain, tamper with, or destroy evidentiary data related to ongoing criminal or other legal investigations. Any actual or perceived vulnerabilities in these circumstances may lead to claims against us. We may experience outages and disruptions of our EVIDENCE.COM service if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. We anticipate increasing user traffic related to the introduction of EVIDENCE.COM. The complexity of this SaaS product will demand significant computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle an anticipated increase in traffic. This expansion is expensive, complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, which could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter to quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to: • budgetary cycles of municipal, state and federal law enforcement and corrections agencies • market acceptance of our products and services • the timing of large domestic and international orders • the outcome of any existing or future litigation • adverse publicity surrounding our products, the safety of our products, or the use of our products • changes in our sales mix • new product introduction costs • increased raw material expenses • changes in our operating expenses • regulatory changes that may affect the marketability of our products As a result of these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful in the short term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our competitiveness and sales in foreign markets. The relative change in currency values creates fluctuations in our product pricing for potential international customers. These changes in foreign end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. These changes may also negatively affect the financial condition of some existing or potential foreign customers and reduce or eliminate their future orders of our products. We maintain all of our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances, some of which are not insured, at two depository institutions. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalent accounts at two depository institutions. As of December 31, 2010, our aggregate balances in such accounts were $42.7 million. Of such amount, $250,000 was covered by Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance, while the remaining amounts were not insured as of the end of fiscal 2010. We could suffer losses with respect to the uninsured balances if the depositary institutions failed and the institution’s assets were insufficient to cover its deposits and/or the Federal government did not take actions to support deposits in excess of existing FDIC insurance limits. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key management and technical personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our officers, the employment of such persons is “at-will” and either we or the employee can terminate the employment relationship at any time, subject to the applicable terms of the employment agreements. The competition for our key employees is intense. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 