Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Whitney must recognize and attempt to manage a number of risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and Whitney are: · credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; · market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; · liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; and · operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although Whitney generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of Whitney’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk and should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s overall risk profile. Whitney’s profitability depends in substantial part on net interest income and on our ability to manage interest rate risk. Whitney’s net interest income represented more than 75% of total revenues in each of the last five years. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other earning assets, and interest owed on deposits and borrowings. Numerous and often interrelated factors influence Whitney’s ability to maintain and grow net interest income, and a number of these factors are addressed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7. One of the most important factors is changes in market rates and in the relationship between these rates for different financial instruments and products and at different maturities. Such changes are generally outside the control of management and cannot be predicted with certainty. Although management applies significant resources to anticipating these changes and to developing and executing strategies for operating in an environment of change, they cannot eliminate the possibility that interest rate risk will negatively affect our net interest income and lead to earnings volatility. Whitney’s market area is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms, which may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Most of Whitney’s market area lies within the coastal region of the five states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. This is an area that is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. Within its broader market area, the greater New Orleans area is Whitney’s primary base of operations and is home to branches and relationship officers that service approximately 40% of the Bank’s total loans and 50% of total deposits at December 31, 2006. Hurricane Katrina hit the greater New Orleans area and the Mississippi coast in August 2005, with lesser impacts on coastal Alabama and the western panhandle of Florida. Hurricane Rita made landfall the following month at the border of Texas and Louisiana, with a major impact on southwest Louisiana, including the Lake Charles area. These two storms caused widespread property damage, required the relocation of an unprecedented number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. The impact on the Company, both operationally and with respect to credit risk and liquidity, and the uncertainties that remain in the wake of these storms are covered in detail in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7. 8 Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 