Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. References in this section to our fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each year. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of United States and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. We continually face significant competition in our markets. This competition results in declining average selling prices for our products. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. Moreover, as with many companies in the semiconductor industry, customers also compete with us in certain product lines. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • level of integration; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products and reduce costs. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others our ability to: • anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • accurately define new products; • timely complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • achieve overall market acceptance of our products; • invest in significant amounts of research and development; and 12 Table of Contents • coordinate product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China, to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. In addition, prices of established products may decline, sometimes significantly and rapidly, over time. We believe that in order to remain competitive we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful and as a result gross margins may decline in future periods. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time these and other factors cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry, and in our business in particular. These factors have caused substantial fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the past and may experience them in the future. Our operating results may be negatively affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effect of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these as well as other factors could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. 13 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. We have incurred substantial expense settling certain intellectual property litigation in the past such as our $70.0 million charge in fiscal 2006 related to the settlement of our patent infringement litigation with Texas Instruments Incorporated. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly and may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our ability to repay our debt; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; • our inclusion in, or removal from, any equity market indices; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • judgments favorable or adverse to us; and • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions We have recently incurred substantial losses and may incur additional future losses. Our net losses for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $402.5 million, $122.6 million and $176.0 million respectively. We have previously initiated several restructuring activities to improve our operating cost structure, and our new President and Chief Executive Officer has initiated further changes. These restructuring activities include a refocusing of our business, changes in product lines and workforce reductions and will have the near-term effect of increasing our operating expenses as a result of special charges we have recorded and will record to implement these actions. Additionally, as the result of previous business combinations, we have significant amounts of intangible assets for which we record amortization expense each period. Finally, any further decline in revenue would significantly affect our results. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability, and we may incur additional substantial losses in the future. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 28, 2007, we had $406.3 million of goodwill and $26.1 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 44% of our total assets. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, 14 Table of Contents with a charge against earnings. If our market capitalization drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, if our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or if other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a non-cash charge against earnings. During fiscal 2007, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $309.5 million and $30.3 million, respectively, which had a material negative impact on our results of operations. Because of the significance of our remaining goodwill and intangible asset balances, any future impairment of these assets could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although, as a non-cash charge, it would have no effect on our cash flow. Significant impairments may also impact shareholder equity. The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our twenty largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 68%, 67% and 64% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; and • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005 approximately 93%, 92% and 90%, respectively, of our net revenues were from customers located outside of the United States, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, a significant portion of our workforce and many of our key suppliers are located outside of the United States. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; 15 Table of Contents • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; and • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities. Because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. We also conduct a significant portion of our international sales through distributors. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 34%, 35% and 28% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our arrangements with these distributors are terminable at any time, and the loss of these arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For those international distributors that we account for under a deferred revenue recognition model, we rely on the distributor to provide us timely and accurate product sell through information, without which the accuracy of amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements may be affected and, therefore, have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because our markets generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; and • evolving industry standards. For example, a portion of our analog modem business which is bundled into PCs is becoming debundled as broadband communications become more ubiquitous. Several of our PC OEM customers have indicated that the trend toward debundling may become more significant, which may have an adverse effect on both our revenues and profitability. Further, our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. At September 28, 2007, we had a total of $275.0 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior secured notes outstanding. These notes are due in November 2010, but we are required to offer to repurchase, for cash, notes at a price of 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, with the net proceeds of certain asset dispositions if such proceeds are not used within 360 days to invest in assets (other than current assets) related to our business. The sale of our investment in Jazz in February 2007 and the sale of two other equity investments in January 2007 qualify as asset dispositions requiring us to make offers to repurchase a portion of the notes no later than 361 days following the respective asset dispositions. Based on the proceeds received from these asset dispositions and our estimates of cash investments in assets (other than current assets) related to our business 16 Table of Contents to be made within 360 days following the asset dispositions, we estimate that we will be required to make offers to repurchase approximately $58.0 million of the senior secured notes, at 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest, in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. At September 28, 2007, we also had a total of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes outstanding. These notes are due in March 2026, but the holders may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or part of their notes on March 1, 2011, March 1, 2016 and March 1, 2021 at a price of 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We also have an $80.0 million credit facility with a bank, under which we had borrowed $80.0 million as of September 28, 2007. The term of this credit facility has been extended through November 28, 2008, and the facility remains subject to additional 364-day extensions at the discretion of the bank. We may not have access to sufficient capital to repay amounts due under (i) our credit facility expiring November 2008 if it is not renewed, (ii) our floating rate senior secured notes when they become due in November 2010 or earlier as a result of a mandatory offer to repurchase, and (iii) our convertible subordinated notes when they become due in March 2026 or earlier as a result of the mandatory repurchase requirements. Further, we may not be able to refinance any portion of this debt on favorable terms or at all. In the future, we may need to make strategic investments and acquisitions to help us grow our business, which may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel at all levels of our business. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. If OEMs of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins”. Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. 17 Table of Contents Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need six months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. The lengthy period of time required also increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate sales to that customer. Thus, we may incur significant research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 34%, 35% and 28% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other supplier products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact their future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Therefore, our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer production capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we risk experiencing delays in access to key process technologies, production or shipments and increased manufacturing costs. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and test of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks that we have with respect to our reliance on outside wafer fabrication facilities. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a wafer fabrication process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for our products. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. All 18 Table of Contents such delays or disruptions could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis and may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition efficiently, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could negatively affect our relationships with our customers and result in the loss of design wins to our competitors, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times we incorporate the intellectual property of our customers into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. 19 Table of Contents Uncertainties involving litigation could adversely affect our business. We and certain of our current and former officers and our Employee Benefits Plan Committee have been named as defendants in a purported breach of fiduciary duties class action lawsuit. Although we believe that this lawsuit is without merit, an adverse determination could have a negative impact on our results of operation and the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, this or other lawsuits may divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and acquisitions. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in: • large initial one-time write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our product lines and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 