Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. References in this section to our fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each year. We are a much smaller company than in the recent past and dependent on fewer products for our success. We are a much smaller company than in the recent past with a narrower, less diversified and more focused portfolio of products. Our smaller size could cause our cash flow and growth prospects to be more volatile and make us more vulnerable to focused competition. We will also have less capital available for research and development and for strategic investments and acquisitions. As a smaller company, we will be subject to greater revenue fluctuations if our older product lines sales were to decline faster than we anticipate. Moreover, we could also face greater challenges in satisfying or refinancing our debt obligations as they become due. In addition, we may not be able to appropriately restructure our supporting functions to fit the needs of a smaller company. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products to offset declines in our legacy products, increase market share, and reduce costs. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis to enable us to grow and to replace decreasing revenue from our established legacy products, which include wireless networking solutions, computer modems and modems for digital television platforms in Japan. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others, our ability to: • anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • define accurately new products; • complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • achieve overall market acceptance of our products; and • coordinate product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China, to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. The average selling prices of our established legacy products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. Many of our products face significant competition and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices over the life of the products. We have historically decreased the average selling prices of many of our products in order to meet market demand, and we expect that we will continue to reduce prices in the future. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers. A decline in average selling prices could harm our gross margins. Historically, we have generally been able to substantially offset 9 Table of Contents reductions in our average selling prices with decreases in our product costs and increases in our unit volumes. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our unit volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. While gross profit may decline as a result of reductions in average selling prices, we may continue to incur research and development costs at higher or existing levels to develop future products. This continued spending would have an adverse impact on our immediate operating results if our revenue does not continue to grow or our gross margins decline. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general, and the markets in which we compete in particular, are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. We continually face significant competition in our markets. This competition results in declining average selling prices for our products. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • level of integration; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. In addition, the financial stability of suppliers is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have a stronger financial position, less indebtedness and greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our relationship with existing and potential customers could be adversely affected if our customers perceive that we lack an appropriate level of financial liquidity or stability or if they think we are too small to do business with. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Recent domestic and global economic weakness and uncertainty have presented unprecedented and 10 Table of Contents challenging conditions reflecting continued concerns about the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, declining real estate values, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and spending and added concerns fueled by the U.S. federal government’s interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. In addition, these conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which could cause our sales to decrease or result in an extension of our sales cycles. Further, given uncertainty in the economic environment, our customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or within our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue to be subject to these adverse economic conditions, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. Since we have limited visibility as to the volume of sales of our products by our customers and inventory levels of our products held by our customers, our ability to forecast accurately future demand for and sales of our products is limited. We sell our chipsets to OEMs, who integrate our chipsets into their products, or to ODMs who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our OEM and ODM customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales and inventory. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales and we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need several months to test, evaluate and choose whether to adopt our product, and to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. Due to these lengthy sales cycles, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur certain research and development costs, selling, general and administrative expenses, and build initial inventory, until the time we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures. Even if a customer selects our solution to incorporate into its product, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its product or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle also increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or curtail, reduce or delay its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated. We will continue to expend substantial resources developing products for new applications or markets and may never achieve the sales volume that we anticipate for these products, which may limit our future growth and harm our results of operations. We have focused our R&D investments in Imaging, Audio and Video areas. Through the acquisition of the Sigmatel MFP business in 2008, and the purchase of assets and certain liabilities of the ADI audio business in 2009 and our internal development efforts, we have increased our sales in these application areas. Although we plan to continue to drive growth in these applications and other new areas, we still have a significant portion of revenue coming from our legacy modem businesses. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to offer products outside of this legacy business, and we face a number of risks in connection with these products, including those described in other risk factors in this report. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, expend substantial resources in developing new and additional products for new applications and markets. We may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products and defects upon volume production and broad 11 Table of Contents deployment. In addition, we will have limited experience in these new markets, and we may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling any products we develop for these or other new markets. The markets we choose to enter will likely be highly competitive and many of our competitors will have substantially more experience in these markets. Our success will depend on the growth of the markets we enter, the competitiveness of our products and our ability to increase our market share in these markets. If we choose to enter markets that do not achieve or sustain the growth we anticipate, or if our products are not competitive, we may not achieve volume sales, which may limit our future growth and would harm our results of operations. The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if a second source supplier becomes available to a key customer for whom we are the sole supplier, our revenue from that key customer could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our 20 largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 82%, 87% and 83% of our net revenues in fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008, respectively. For fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008, one distributor accounted for 13%, 23% and 23% of our net revenues, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • our customers’ perceptions of our liquidity and viability may have a negative impact on their decisions to incorporate our products into their own products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products; • some of our customers’ liquidity may be negatively affected by continued uncertainty in global economic conditions; and • our small size, our cost-savings efforts and any future liquidity constraints may limit our ability to develop and deliver new products to customers. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, PC, and consumer markets. Recently, unfavorable domestic and global economic conditions have had an adverse impact on demand in these end-user markets by reducing overall consumer spending or shifting consumer spending to products other than those made by our customers. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending by customers in these end-markets will adversely impact demand by our customers for our products and could also 12 Table of Contents slow new product introductions by our customers and by us. Lower net sales of our products would have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because the markets we operate in generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; • evolving industry standards; and • constant transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. If OEMs of electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins.” Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of the agreement governing our accounts receivable financing facility and the terms of the indenture governing our senior secured notes due 2015. The agreement governing our accounts receivable financing facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes due 2015 contain financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to take, or prevent us from taking, certain actions that we believe are in the best interests of our business and our stockholders. For example, the indenture governing our senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries who are guarantors of our senior secured notes to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain redeemable or preferred stock; repurchase capital stock; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; create liens; redeem junior debt; sell certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale-leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required to use the proceeds of certain asset dispositions to offer to repurchase our senior secured notes if we do not use the proceeds within 360 days to invest in assets (other than current assets) to be used in our business; and this requirement limits our ability to use asset sale proceeds to fund our operations. The restrictions imposed by the agreement governing our accounts receivable financing facility and the indenture 13 Table of Contents governing our senior secured notes may prevent us from taking actions that could help to grow our business or increase the value of our securities. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For the fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008, net revenues from customers located outside of the United States (“U.S.”), primarily in the Asia-Pacific region, represented approximately 94%, 97% and 97%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In addition, many of our key suppliers are located outside of the U.S. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • local economic and political conditions; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity, armed conflict, or natural disasters; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • the laws and policies of the U.S. and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; and • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities. Further, because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into during the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. As of October 1, 2010, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. We also conduct a significant portion of our international sales through distributors. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 24%, 36% and 34% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008, respectively. Our arrangements with these distributors are terminable at any time, and the loss of these arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances, acquisitions and where appropriate, divestitures and restructurings. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in: • write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; 14 Table of Contents • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our products and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, in the event that we have unprofitable operations or products, we may be forced to restructure or divest such operations or products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to restructure or divest such operations or products on a timely basis or at a value that will avoid further losses or that will successfully mitigate the negative impact on our overall operations or financial results. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 24%, 36% and 34% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended October 1, 2010, October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other suppliers’ products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact the distributors’ future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously-sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Therefore, our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer fabrication capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we risk experiencing delays in access to key process technologies, production or shipments and increased manufacturing costs. Moreover, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build or expand wafer fabrication facilities. However, current uncertain economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased the level of liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. These conditions may make it difficult for foundries to obtain adequate or historical levels of capital to finance the building or expansion of their wafer fabrication facilities, which would have an adverse impact on their production capacity and could in turn negatively impact our wafer output. In addition, certain of our suppliers have required that we keep in place standby letters of credit for all or part of the products we order. Such requirement, or a requirement that we pre-pay for all or part of vendor invoices or that we shorten our payment cycle times in the future, may negatively impact our liquidity and cash position, or may not be available to us due to our then-current liquidity or cash position, and would have a negative impact on our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several 15 Table of Contents months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and testing of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks that we have with respect to our reliance on outside foundries. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for that product. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer fabrication capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer fabrication capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. All such delays or disruptions could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis and may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times, we incorporate intellectual property licensed from our customers and other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. A significant portion of our intellectual property rights is located in foreign jurisdictions. Because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights frequently do not receive the same degree of protection in foreign jurisdictions as they would in the U.S. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technologies. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, which we may not be successful in developing; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want or at prices you find attractive. The price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. For example, since September 29, 2007, the price of our stock has ranged from a high of $14.80 per share to a low of $0.26 per share. We cannot assure you as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors included herein, some of the reasons for fluctuations in our stock price could include: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; • proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; and • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 17 Table of Contents We own or lease a significant amount of space in which we do not conduct operations, and doing so exposes us to the financial risks of default by our tenants and subtenants and expenses related to carrying vacant property. As a result of our various reorganization and restructuring related activities, we lease or own a number of domestic facilities in which we do not operate. At October 1, 2010, we had 407,175 square feet of leased space and 456,000 square feet of owned space, of which approximately 89% was being leased to third parties and 11% was vacant and offered for lease. Included in these amounts are 389,000 square feet of owned space in Newport Beach, California that we have leased to TowerJazz (formerly Jazz Semiconductor, Inc.). As of October 1, 2010, the aggregate amount owed to landlords under space we lease but do not operate over the remaining terms of the leases was approximately $56.0 million and, of this amount, subtenants had lease obligations to us in the aggregate amount of $13.7 million. The space we have subleased to others is, in some cases, at rates less than the amounts we are required to pay landlords and, of the aggregate obligations we had to landlords for unused space at October 1, 2010, approximately $7.0 million was attributable to space we were attempting to sublease. In the event one or more of our subtenants fails to make lease payments to us or otherwise defaults on their obligations to us, we could incur substantial unanticipated payment obligations to landlords. In addition, in the event tenants of space we own fail to make lease payments to us or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could be required to seek new tenants and we cannot assure you that our efforts to do so would be successful or that the rates at which we could do so would be attractive. In the event our estimates regarding our ability to sublet our available space are incorrect, we would be required to adjust our restructuring reserves, which could have a material impact on our financial results in the future. We have historically incurred substantial losses and may incur additional future losses. Our loss from continuing operations (as retrospectively adjusted) for the fiscal years ended October 2, 2009 and October 3, 2008 was $40.5 million and $12.7 million, respectively. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and operating cash flows. We cannot assure you that our business will be profitable or that we will not incur additional substantial losses in the future. Additional operating losses or lower than expected product sales will adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition and could impair our ability to satisfy our indebtedness obligations as such obligations come due. The value of our warrant to purchase 6.1 million shares of Mindspeed common stock is subject to material increases and decreases in value based on factors beyond our control. We have a warrant to purchase approximately 6.1 million shares of Mindspeed common stock at an exercise price of $16.74 per share through June 2013. At October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, the market value of Mindspeed common stock was $7.73 and $3.05 per share, respectively. We account for the Mindspeed warrant as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the warrant are included under other expense (income), net in the statement of operations for each period. At October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, the aggregate fair value of the Mindspeed warrant included on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets was $20.7 million and $5.1 million, respectively. At October 1, 2010, the warrant was valued using the Black-Scholes-Merton model with an expected term of 2.75 years, expected volatility of 101%, risk-free interest rate of 0.58% and no dividend yield. The aggregate fair value of the warrant is reflected as a long-term asset on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because we do not intend to liquidate any portion of the warrant in the next twelve months. At October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, the value of the warrant represented 7% and 1%, respectively, of total assets. The valuation of this derivative instrument is subjective, and option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. We could, at any point in time, ultimately realize amounts significantly different than the carrying value. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel at all levels of our business. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business. We are involved in various claims and lawsuits from time to time. For example, in February 2005, certain of our current and former officers and our Employee Benefits Plan Committee were named as defendants in a purported breach of fiduciary duties class action lawsuit that we recently settled for $3.25 million. Any of these claims or legal actions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. If any of the tax holidays or favorable tax incentives under which we operated in certain foreign jurisdictions are disallowed, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We operated under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. While we believe we qualified for these incentives that reduced our income taxes and operating costs, the incentives required us to meet specified criteria, which are subject to audit and review. We cannot assure you that we met such criteria that would enable us to enjoy such tax holidays and incentives or realize any tax benefits from the tax holidays and incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could be limited by an ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs. We have significant NOLs, R&D tax credits, capitalized R&D and amortizable goodwill available to offset our future U.S. federal and state taxable income. A significant amount of our NOLs were acquired in the acquisition of certain of our subsidiaries. Those NOLs are subject to limitations imposed by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (and applicable state law). In addition, our ability to utilize any of our NOLs and other tax attributes may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (and applicable state law) if we undergo an ownership change. An ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if, among other things, 5% stockholders (i.e., stockholders who own or have owned 5% or more of our stock (with certain groups of less-than-5% stockholders treated as single stockholders for this purpose)) increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our common stock by more than fifty percentage points above the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the relevant testing period. Stock ownership for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code is determined under a complex set of attribution rules, so that a person is treated as owning stock directly, indirectly (i.e., through certain entities) and constructively (through certain related persons and certain unrelated persons acting as a group). In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation (based upon our value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOLs. If we undergo an ownership change, Section 383 would also limit our ability to use R&D tax credits. In addition, if the tax basis of our assets exceeded the fair market value of our assets at the time of the ownership change, Section 382 could also limit our ability to use amortization of capitalized R&D and goodwill to offset taxable income for the first five years following an ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. As a result, our inability to utilize these NOLs, credits or amortization as a result of any ownership changes could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs and credits for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs, credits and tax attributes in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. In the event of a change of control, we may not be able to repurchase our outstanding debt as required by the applicable indenture, which would result in a default under the indenture. Upon a change of control, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our senior notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the applicable repurchase date. As of October 1, 2010, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the senior notes was $175.0 million. Future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. We may not have the financial resources to repurchase our indebtedness. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At October 1, 2010, we had $109.9 million of goodwill and $4.3 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 37% of our total assets. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our market capitalization drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a charge against earnings. Our remaining goodwill is associated with our business. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level annually in the fourth fiscal quarter and, if necessary, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, we determined that the fair value of our business was greater than its carrying value and therefore there was no impairment of goodwill as of October 1, 2010. Because of the significance of our remaining goodwill and intangible asset balances, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although, as a charge, it would have no effect on our cash flow. Significant impairments may also impact shareholders’ equity (deficit). Our revenues, cash flow from operations and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, particularly given uncertain domestic and global economic conditions. Our revenues, cash flow and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • adverse economic conditions, including the unavailability or high cost of credit to our customers; • the inability of our customers to forecast demand based on uncertain economic conditions; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; 20 Table of Contents • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effect of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 