Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business You should carefully consider the following risk factors and all other information contained herein as well as the information included in this Annual Report in evaluating our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, other than those we describe below, that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business and financial results could be harmed. You should refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our success is dependent on growth in the deployment of wireless networks and new technology upgrades, and to the extent that such growth slows, our business may be harmed. Telecommunications carriers are constantly re-evaluating their network deployment plans in response to trends in the capital markets, changing perceptions regarding industry growth, the adoption of new wireless technologies, increasing pricing competition for subscribers and general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. If the rate of network deployment slows and carriers reduce their capital investments in wireless infrastructure or fail to expand into new geographic areas, our business may be significantly harmed. The uncertainty associated with rapidly changing telecommunications technologies may also negatively impact the rate of deployment of wireless networks and the demand for our services. Telecommunications service providers face significant challenges in assessing consumer demand and in acceptance of rapidly changing enhanced telecommunications capabilities. If telecommunications service providers perceive that the rate of acceptance of next generation telecommunications products will grow 11 more slowly than previously expected, they may, as a result, slow their development of next generation technologies. Moreover, increasing price competition for subscribers could adversely affect the profitability of carriers and limit their resources for network deployment. Any significant sustained slowdown will further reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our financial results. If wireless carriers, network equipment vendors and enterprises do not outsource their wireless telecommunications services, our business will suffer. Our success depends upon the continued trend by wireless carriers and network equipment vendors to outsource their network design, deployment and management needs. If this trend does not continue and wireless carriers and network equipment vendors elect to perform more network deployment services themselves, our operating results and revenues may decline. If enterprise customers do not invest in security systems and other new in-building technologies such as wireless local area networks, our business will suffer. We intend to devote significant resources to developing our enterprise-based WLAN (Wireless Local Area Networks), but we cannot predict that we will achieve widespread market acceptance amongst the enterprises we identify as potential customers. It is possible that some enterprises will determine that capital constraints and other factors outweigh their need for WLAN systems. As a result, we may be affected by a significant delay in the adoption of WLAN by enterprises, which would harm our business. Our failure to obtain new government contracts, the cancellation of our current government contracts, or a reduction in federal budget appropriations involving our services could materially adversely affect our revenues. We anticipate that a material portion of our future revenues will come from our Government Network Services segment. Our revenues and cash flows from our Government Network Services segment may decline if a significant number of our government contracts are delayed or cancelled due to cutbacks in defense, homeland security or other federal agency budgets or for other reasons. In addition, our failure to successfully compete for and retain such government contracts could have an adverse effect on our revenues and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that we—or if we are a subcontractor, that the prime contractor—will win any particular bid, or that we will be able to replace business lost upon expiration or completion of a contract. We anticipate that our Government Network Services segment will also be sensitive to changes in national defense and budget priorities. Demand for our services may decline if conflicts in the Middle East and other high risk areas subside, or if U.S. defense budget appropriations are reduced. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and our failure or inability to comply with these regulations could subject us to penalties and result in a loss of our government contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues. The wireless networks that we design, deploy and manage are subject to various regulations issued by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and other regulatory bodies in the U.S. and other countries. FCC regulations require that these networks meet certain radio frequency emission standards, not create unallowable interference to other services, and in some cases accept interference from other services. These networks are also subject to government regulations and requirements of local standards bodies in foreign countries in which we have business operations, where we are less prominent than local competitors and have less opportunity to participate in the establishment of regulatory and standards policies. We are also subject to state and federal health, safety and environmental regulations, as well as regulations related to the handling of and access to classified information. Additionally, because we conduct business throughout the U.S., many of our activities are subject to different state and local regulatory schemes, including those relative to licensing, taxes and employment matters, with which we are required to comply. We are subject to routine audits to assure our compliance with these requirements. 12 Our failure to comply with these regulations, rules and approvals could result in the impositions of penalties and the loss of our government contracts and disqualification as a U.S. government contractor, which could adversely affect our revenues. Additional regulations may be adopted, including changes in the allocation of available spectrum by the U.S. government and other governments or exclusion of our technology by a standards body, which may result in additional cost to us or restrict our current business operations, which could have a harmful effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial position. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers. To the extent that any significant client uses less of our services or terminates its relationship with us, our revenues could decline significantly. As a result, the loss of any significant client could seriously harm our business. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had two customers which comprised 26.3% and 9.0% of our revenues, respectively, and our five largest customers accounted for approximately 49.0% of our total revenues. None of our customers are obligated to purchase additional services from us. As a result, the volume of work that we perform for a specific client is likely to vary from period to period, and a significant client in one period may not use our services in a subsequent period. Recent business acquisitions and potential future business acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. We have completed several acquisitions of complimentary business in recent years, and we continually evaluate opportunities to acquire new businesses as part of our ongoing strategy. Our integration of historical and future acquisitions will require significant management time and financial resources because we will need to integrate dispersed operations with distinct corporate cultures. We also may continue to expand our operations through business acquisitions over time. Our failure to properly integrate businesses we acquire and to manage future acquisitions successfully could seriously harm our operating results. In addition, acquired companies may not perform as well as we expect, and we may fail to realize anticipated benefits. We may issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ ownership and incur debt and other costs in connection with future acquisitions which may cause our quarterly operating results to vary significantly. In February 2004, we filed an acquisition shelf registration statement on Form S-4 that, subject to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, will enable us to issue up to $200 million shares of our newly issued common stock in one or more acquisition transactions. In addition, we currently have a $15 million senior credit facility with KeyBank National Association, which can be expanded to a $60 million facility to fund future acquisitions. The consolidation of equipment vendors or carriers could adversely impact our business. Recently, the wireless telecommunications industry has been characterized by significant consolidation activity including Cingular’s acquisition of AT&T Wireless, both of whom were significant customers of ours, the merger between Alltel and Western Wireless and the merger between Sprint and Nextel Communications. The consolidation of equipment vendors or carriers could reduce the number of our current or potential customers and increase the bargaining power of our remaining customers which may adversely impact our business. If our customers do not receive sufficient financing or fail to pay us for services performed, our business may be harmed. A few of our customers rely upon outside financing to pay the costs of deploying their networks. These customers may fail to obtain adequate financing or experience delays in receiving financing and they may choose the services of our competitors if our competitors are willing and able to provide project financing. 13 In addition, we have historically taken significant write-offs of our accounts receivable. While the vast majority of our customers today are tier 1 carriers, large enterprises and the federal government, it is possible that in some instances we may not receive payment for services we have already performed. If our customers do not receive adequate financing or if we are required to write-off significant amounts of our accounts receivables, then our net income will decline, and our business will be harmed. We are in highly competitive markets, face competition from large, well-established competitors with significant resources, and may not be able to compete effectively. Each of the vertical markets that we compete in is highly competitive. If we fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, our business, financial condition and operating results may be harmed. We expect competition to continue and intensify in the future. We cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully with existing or new competitors. Many of our current competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, generate greater revenues and have greater name recognition and experience than we do. This may place us at a disadvantage in responding to our competitors’ pricing strategies, technological advances, advertising campaigns, strategic partnerships and other initiatives. In addition, many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our potential clients and have extensive knowledge of our industry. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and they may be able to devote more resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can. Our quarterly results fluctuate and may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will likely fluctuate in the future. As a result, we believe that period to period comparisons of our results of operations are not a good indication of our future performance. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, are likely to cause these fluctuations. Some of these factors include: · telecommunications market conditions and economic conditions generally; · the timing and size of network deployments and technology upgrades by our carrier customers; · fluctuations in demand for outsourced network services; · the timing of expansion into new markets, both domestically and internationally; · the success of our international business operations; · changes in our effective tax rate including changes in our judgment as to the necessity of the valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax asset; · the length of sales cycles; · the ability of certain customers to sustain capital resources to pay their trade accounts receivable balances and required changes to our allowance for doubtful accounts based on periodic assessments of the collectibility of our accounts receivable balances; · reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; · our success in bidding on and winning new business; · changes in the actual and estimated costs and time to complete fixed-price, time-certain projects that may result in revenue adjustments for contracts where revenue is recognized under the percentage of completion method; · our sales, marketing, and administrative cost structure; and · costs of integrating businesses that we acquire. 14 Because our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and our common stock could decline significantly which may expose us to risks of securities litigation, impair our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals using equity incentives and make it more difficult to complete acquisitions using equity as consideration. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The market for our services is characterized by rapid change and technological improvements. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments will result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenues from creating wireless networks that are based upon today’s leading technologies and that are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to develop and market service offerings that respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Failure to properly manage projects may result in costs or claims. Our wireless network engagements often involve large scale, highly complex projects. The quality of our performance on such projects depends in large part upon our ability to manage the relationship with our customers, and to effectively manage the project and deploy appropriate resources, including third-party contractors, and our own personnel, in a timely manner. Any defects or errors or failure to meet clients’ expectations could result in claims for substantial damages against us. Our contracts generally limit our liability for damages that arise from negligent acts, error, mistakes or omissions in rendering services to our clients. However, we cannot be sure that these contractual provisions will protect us from liability for damages in the event we are sued. In addition, in certain instances, we guarantee customers that we will complete a project by a scheduled date or that the network will achieve certain performance standards. If the project or network experiences a performance problem, we may not be able to recover the additional costs we will incur, which could exceed revenues realized from a project. Finally, if we underestimate the resources or time we need to complete a project with capped or fixed fees, our operating results could be seriously harmed. In addition, a majority of our enterprise businesses and additional significant deployment projects are located in the southeastern United States, an area which is susceptible to hurricanes. In late summer 2005, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita struck the Gulf Coast region of the United States, resulting in labor and material shortages in the area. Although we expect certain delays and increased cost estimates in our deployment business for both carriers and enterprise customers as a result of the rebuilding effort in the wake of the 2005 hurricanes, we are unable to predict with certainty the extent of the impact on our operating results. Our failure to attract and retain key managerial, technical, selling and marketing personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon our attracting and retaining key members of our management team. The loss of any of our key members might delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives. Our future performance will be substantially dependent on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key members of our management team. We must also continue to hire and retain additional highly skilled engineering, managerial, business development and sales personnel. In an effort to manage our costs, it is our policy to hire many of our employees on a project-by-project basis. Upon completion of an assigned project, the employees are no longer employed by us until we elect to hire them for the next project. Competition for such highly skilled personnel in our industry is intense, especially for engineers and project managers, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to hire or re-hire sufficiently qualified personnel in adequate numbers to meet 15 the demand for our services. We also believe that our success depends to a significant extent on the ability of our key personnel to operate effectively, both individually and as a group. If we are unable to identify, hire and integrate new employees in a timely and cost-efficient manner, our operating results will suffer. Our failure to maintain appropriate staffing levels could adversely affect our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to hire the requisite number of experienced and skilled personnel when necessary in order to service a major contract, particularly if the market for related personnel becomes more competitive. Conversely, if we maintain or increase our staffing levels in anticipation of one or more projects and the projects are delayed, reduced or terminated, we may underutilize the additional personnel, which would increase our general and administrative expenses, reduce our earnings and possibly harm our results of operations. If we are unable to obtain major contracts or effectively complete such contracts due to staffing deficiencies, our revenues may decline and our business may be harmed. Government regulations could restrict our ability to hire employees or to utilize employees effectively. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 176 or 8% of our employees in the United States were working under H-1B visas. H-1B visas are a special class of nonimmigrant working visas for qualified aliens working in specialty occupations, including, for example, radio frequency engineers. The H-1B program refers to a provision of the United States Immigration and Nationality Act that allows highly skilled foreigners to work in the United States for as long as six years. Current law limits the number of foreign workers who may be issued a visa or otherwise be provided H-1B status to 65,000, plus 20,000 additional numbers for the U.S. advanced degree exception through 2005. Immigration policies are subject to rapid change, and these policies have become more stringent since the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Any additional significant changes in immigration law or regulations may further restrict our ability to continue to employ or to hire new workers on H-1B visas and otherwise restrict our ability to utilize our existing employees as we see fit, and, therefore, could harm our business. International uncertainties and fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could harm our profitability. We currently have international operations, including offices in Brazil, China, India, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Turkey. For the year ended December 31, 2005, international operations, excluding discontinued operations, accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenues. Our international business operations are subject to a number of material risks, including, but not limited to: · difficulties in building and managing foreign operations including, without limitation, management and contracts administration processes; · regulatory uncertainties in foreign countries, including changing regulations and delays in licensing carriers to build out their networks in various locations; · difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems and addressing other legal issues; · unexpected restrictions on transferring cash from foreign operations to the U.S.; · longer payment cycles; · foreign and U.S. taxation issues; · potential weaknesses in foreign economies, particularly in Europe and Latin and South America; · fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; 16 · general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; and · unexpected domestic and international regulatory, economic or political changes. Our significant international subsidiaries (i.e., Brazil and the United Kingdom) procure certain transactions that are denominated in U.S. dollars. Downward fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies, compared to the U.S. dollar, may make our services more expensive than local service offerings in international locations. This would make our service offerings less price competitive than local service offerings, which could harm our business. To date, our experience with this foreign currency risk has predominately related to the Brazilian Real and Mexican Peso (in our discontinued business). In addition, we also conduct business in British Pound Sterling, Chinese Renminbi, Indian Rupee, Euro, Swedish Krona and Turkish Lira. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risks of currency fluctuations. Therefore, fluctuations in foreign currencies could have a negative impact on the profitability of our global operations, which would harm our financial results. Payment for the sale of our operations in Mexico was made in part by a promissory note, which could be placed into default in the event of non-payment by the buyer. As part of the sales price of the Company’s subsidiaries in Mexico, the Company received a $16.5 million promissory note from the buyer. Although the note is secured by a pledge of assets and a personal guaranty, the buyer could default on the note. If upon the execution of the pledges on the assets and the personal guaranty, there were insufficient funds for a full payment of the note, the Company would incur a loss on the transaction. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Accounting Standards No.123 (revised 2004) “Share-Based Payment” (SFAS No. 123R), a revision of FASB Statement 123 Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which requires that companies record compensation expense in the statement of operations for employee stock options using the fair value method. Implementation of this statement as required during the first quarter of 2006 may have a significant negative effect on our reported results and may impair our ability to use equity compensation to attract and retain skilled personnel. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We have reported material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that, if we do not substantially remedy, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. As described in Item 9A of this Report, we have restated our previously issued financial statements for the quarters ended July 1, 2005 and September 30, 2005 to reflect the accounting impact of the cancellation of sites by one of our customers in Mexico in those periods. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s auditing standards provide that a restatement is a strong indicator of a material weakness. Accordingly, we determined that due to the lack of time available to assess the operating effectiveness of remediated entity level controls at the Mexico operations, and the fact that full transaction details that led us to restate previously issued financial statements were not discovered until after our fiscal year end, this control deficiency constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In particular, the Company’s entity level controls surrounding the 17 control environment at the Mexico subsidiary and the timely and accurate communication of information to executive management were not operating effectively. In connection with management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005, management also concluded that a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting existed because we were unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of finance and accounting personnel to support compliance with our financial reporting requirements. As a result of this weakness, we have made adjustments to our previously published unaudited operating results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005 in our earnings release and our Current Report on Form 8-K. The specific adjustments are disclosed in Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The differences from the reported numbers were substantially all related to our discontinued operations in Mexico, and were primarily related to non-cash adjustments such as an impairment for deferred tax assets as well as the impairment of accumulated foreign currency translation losses of our discontinued operations. These adjustments were primarily triggered as a result of the disposal of our operation in Mexico. A material weakness, by itself or in combination with other control deficiencies, results in a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement in our financial statements will not be prevented or detected by our employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. In addition, from time to time we acquire businesses which could have limited infrastructure and systems of internal controls. Performing assessments of internal controls, implementing necessary changes, and maintaining an effective internal controls process is costly and requires considerable management attention, particularly in the case of newly acquired entities. Internal control systems are designed in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and all such systems, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. We also cannot assure you that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Any failure to remediate any future material weaknesses or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements or other public disclosures. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and NASDAQ Stock Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, which may continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our officers, directors and principal stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to exert significant influence over our management and operations, acting in their best interests and not in the best interests of other stockholders. As of December 31, 2005, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 38.8% of our outstanding common stock, after giving effect to the conversion of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock. In particular, our Chairman Masood K. Tayebi, beneficially owned, approximately 9.7% of our outstanding common stock. 8.7% of our outstanding 18 common stock is beneficially owned by certain of our other officers and directors and their affiliates. The remaining 20.4% is beneficially owned by other members of the Tayebi family. As a result, the executive officers, directors and their affiliates are able to collectively exercise significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As a result of their actions or inactions our stock price may decline. We may need additional capital in the future to fund the growth of our business, and financing may not be available. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating income will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot assure you that such resources will be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. In particular, we may experience a negative operating cash flow due to billing milestones and project timelines in certain of our contracts. We may raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings if such financings become available on favorable terms or we may expand our current $15 million senior credit facility up to $60 million to fund future acquisitions. We also filed a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3. Under this shelf registration statement, we may sell, in one or more public offerings, shares of newly issued common stock or preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or any combination of such securities, for proceeds in an aggregate amount of up to $200 million. Such financing or offerings would likely dilute our stockholders’ equity ownership. In addition, we cannot assure you that any additional financing we may need will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop new products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders or customers could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that that we will always be able to resolve such disputes on terms favorable to us. In addition, we and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named defendants in class action and derivative lawsuits. While we believe that allegations lack merit and we intend to vigorously defend all claims asserted, we are unable to estimate what our liability in these matters may be. We may be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses in connection with such matters in aggregate amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Disclosure of trade secrets could aid our competitors. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with third parties, our employees and consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. If our trade secrets become known we may lose our competitive position. 19 Our stock price may be volatile, which may result in lawsuits against us and our officers and directors. The stock market in general, and the stock prices of technology and telecommunications companies in particular, have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. Factors which could have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock include, but are not limited to, the following: · quarterly variations in operating results; · announcements of new services by us or our competitors; · the gain or loss of significant customers; · changes in analysts’ earnings estimates; · rumors or dissemination of false information; · pricing pressures; · impact of litigation; · short selling of our common stock; · general conditions in the market; · political and/or military events associated with current worldwide conflicts; and · events affecting other companies that investors deem comparable to us. Companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have frequently been the object of securities class action litigation. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named defendants in class action and derivative lawsuits. These matters, and any other securities class action litigation in which we may be involved, could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our charter documents and Delaware law may deter potential acquirers and may depress our stock price. Certain provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law, as well as certain agreements we have with our executives, could make it substantially more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us. These provisions include: · authorizing the board of directors to issue preferred stock; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings of our stockholders; · Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder unless specific conditions are met; and · a number of our executives have agreements with us that entitle them to payments in certain circumstances following a change in control. In addition, on December 16, 2004, we adopted a stockholder rights plan (“Rights Plan”). Pursuant to the Rights Plan, our Board of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one preferred share purchase 20 right (“Right”) on each outstanding share of our common stock. Each Right will entitle stockholders to buy one one-hundredth of a share of newly created Series C Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $54, subject to adjustment, in the event that the Rights become exercisable. Subject to limited exceptions, the Rights will become exercisable if a person or group acquires 15% or more of our common stock or announces a tender offer for 15% or more of the common stock. If we are acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction which has not been approved by our Board of Directors, each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Rights then-current exercise price, a number of the acquiring company’s common shares having a market value at the time of twice the Rights exercise price. These provisions may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change in control and may limit our stockholders’ ability to approve transactions that they deem to be in their best interests. As a result, these provisions may depress our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 