Item 1A. Risk Factors Please carefully consider the risks described below regarding the Company. The risks described below are not the only ones faced by the Company. Additional risks not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently believes are immaterial may also impair business operations and financial results. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of the Company’s common stock could decline and an investor could lose all or part of his, her or its investment. Increased compliance and pipeline safety requirements and fines. The Company is committed to the safe and reliable delivery of natural gas to its customers. Working in concert with this commitment are numerous laws and regulations derived at both the federal and state levels. The Company is diligent in complying with these regulations and is subject to ongoing inspections and reviews. Failure to comply with such requirements could result in the levy of significant fines. Recent enforcement actions by the Virginia Division of Utility and Railroad Safety have resulted in increased fine levels for gas distribution companies across the state of Virginia. There are inherent risks that may be beyond the Company’s control, including third party actions, which could result in damage to the pipeline facilities, injury and even death. Such incidents could subject the Company to lawsuits, large fines, increased scrutiny and loss of customers, all of which could have a significant effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operation. Weather conditions may cause revenues and earnings to vary from year to year. The Company’s revenues and earnings are highly dependent upon weather conditions, specifically winter weather. A warm winter can reduce energy consumption and therefore lower the volume of gas delivered, which reduces revenue and earnings. The Company’s rate structure currently has a weather normalization adjustment factor that operates around a weather band of approximately 3% above and below the 30-year average for heating degree-days. If the provision for the weather normalization adjustment were removed from its rate structure, the Company would be exposed to a much greater risk related to weather variability resulting in earnings volatility. Competition from other energy providers. The Company competes with other energy providers in its service territory, including those that provide electricity, propane, coal and fuel oil. A significant competitive factor is price. Higher natural gas costs or decreases in the price of other energy sources may lead to competition and encourage customers to convert their gas-fired equipment to systems that use alternative energy sources, thus lowering natural gas deliveries and earnings. Price considerations could also inhibit customer and revenue growth if builders and developers do not perceive natural gas to be a better value than other energy options and elect to install heating systems that use an energy source other than natural gas. Business activities are concentrated in a limited geographic region. Changes in the Roanoke Valley’s economies, politics, regulations and weather patterns could negatively impact the existing customer base, leading to declining usage patterns and financial condition of customers, both of which could adversely affect earnings. General downturn in the economy or prolonged period of slow economic recovery. A weak or poorly performing economy can negatively affect the Company’s profitability. An economic downturn can result in loss of commercial and industrial customers due to plant closings as well as slow or declining growth in new customer additions, both of which would result in reduced sales volumes and lower revenues. An economic downturn could also result in rising unemployment and other factors that could result in increased customer delinquencies and bad debt expense. Availability of adequate and reliable pipeline capacity. The Company is served directly by two interstate pipelines. These two pipelines carry 100% of the natural gas transported to the Company’s distribution system. Depending on weather conditions and the level of customer demand, failure of one or both of these interstate transmission pipelines could have a major impact on the Company’s ability to meet customer demand for natural gas and adversely affect the Company’s earnings as a result of lost revenue and the cost of service restoration. Environmental laws or regulations. Passage of new environmental legislation or implementation of regulations that mandate reductions in greenhouse gas emissions or other similar restrictions could have a negative effect on the Company’s core operations. Natural gas is a clean and efficient energy source; however, the combustion of natural gas results in carbon related emissions. Such legislation could impose limitations on greenhouse gas emissions, require funding of new energy efficiency objectives, impose new operational requirements or lead to other additional costs to the Company. New regulations could result in a significant reduction in the use of coal as a fuel for electric power generation, potentially resulting in natural gas supply concerns and higher cost for natural gas. Legislation or regulations could limit the exploration and development of natural gas reserves, making the price of natural gas less competitive and less attractive as a fuel source for consumers, resulting in reduced deliveries and earnings. Supply disruptions due to weather or other forces. Hurricanes and other natural or man-made disasters could damage or inhibit production and/or pipeline transportation facilities, which could result in decreased supplies of natural gas. Decreased supplies could result in an inability to meet customer demand leading to higher prices or service disruptions. Disasters could also lead to additional governmental regulations that limit production activity or increase production and transportation costs. The cost of providing post-retirement benefits and related funding obligations may increase. The costs of providing defined benefit pension and retiree medical plans are dependent on a number of factors such as the rates of return on plan assets, discount rates used in determining plan liabilities, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plan, future government regulation, changes in life expectancy, and required or voluntary contributions made to the plan. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual results, as well as a significant decline in the value of investments that fund these plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase the expense of these plans and require significant additional funding of these plans. Such funding obligations could have a material impact on liquidity by reducing cash flows and could negatively affect results of operations. Security breach or cyber-attacks on the Company’s computer systems could corrupt financial information, expose confidential personal information or compromise the safe and reliable delivery of natural gas. A breach of the Company’s information systems from cyber-attacks or other sources could lead to disruptions in natural gas deliveries or compromise the safety of our distribution system. Such attacks could also result in corruption of the Company’s financial information or the unauthorized release of confidential customer, employee or vendor information. The Company takes reasonable precautions to safeguard its computer systems from attack; however, there is no guarantee that Company processes will adequately protect against unauthorized access to data. In the event of a successful attack, the Company could be exposed to material financial and reputational risks. Changes in accounting standards and their effect on the financial statements. The SEC continues to evaluate requiring public issuers in the United States to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of the current generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) used in the United States. IFRS is a principles based set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). The application of IFRS would result in differences in the components of a company’s financial statements as a result of differences between IFRS and GAAP. One major difference is IFRS does not currently provide an industry accounting standard for rate-regulated activities. As such, the adoption of IFRS in its current form, without other mitigating regulatory actions, could result in the Company no longer recognizing regulatory assets and liabilities on its financial statements which could have a significant effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the governing body in the United States, could also issue new accounting standards that would have a significant impact on the Company’s financial statements and increase the Company’s cost of compliance. Access to capital to maintain liquidity. The Company relies on a variety of capital sources to operate its business and fund capital expenditures, including internally generated cash from operations, short-term borrowings under its line-of-credit, proceeds from stock issued under the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (“DRIP”) and other sources. Access to a bank line-of-credit is essential to provide seasonal funding of natural gas operations and provide capital budget bridge financing. Access to capital markets and other long-term funding sources is important to provide more predictable financing for capital outlays. The ability of the Company to maintain and renew its line-of-credit and to secure longer-term financing is critical to operations. Adverse market trends or deterioration in the financial condition of the Company could increase the cost of borrowing or limit the Company’s ability to secure adequate funding. Risks associated with the operation of a natural gas distribution pipeline and LNG storage facility. Numerous potential risks are inherent in the operation of a natural gas distribution system and LNG storage facility including unanticipated or unforeseen events that are beyond the control of the Company. Examples of such events include adverse weather conditions, acts of terrorism, accidents, equipment breakdowns, failure of upstream pipelines and storage facilities, as well as catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods, or other similar events. These risks could result in injury or loss of life, property damage, pollution and customer service disruption resulting in potentially significant financial losses. The Company maintains insurance policies with financially sound carriers to protect against many of these risks. If losses result from a risk that is not fully covered by insurance, the Company’s financial condition could be significantly impacted if it were unable to recover such losses from customers through the regulatory rate making process. Even if the Company did not incur a direct financial loss as a result of any of the events noted above, it could encounter significant reputational damage from a reliability, safety, integrity or similar viewpoint, ultimately resulting in longer-term earnings impact. Volatility in the price and availability of natural gas. Natural gas represents the single largest expense of the Company. Recent improvements in the technologies needed for accessing the natural gas contained in shale rock have been the primary factor in the decline in natural gas commodity prices as these natural gas reserves are now accessible. Even with increasing demand from other areas including electric generation, natural gas prices are currently expected to remain stable in the near term, although there can be no guarantee to that effect. However, if restrictions on drilling for natural gas in the shale rock formations are imposed at either federal or state levels due to environmental or other concerns or other exploration and development restrictions on conventional drilling are enacted, the price of natural gas could escalate. Furthermore, if demand for natural gas increases at a rate in excess of current expectations, natural gas prices could also face upward pressure. Increasing natural gas prices could make natural gas a less attractive energy source to the Company’s customers; thereby potentially resulting in declining sales as well as increases in bad debt expense. Regulatory actions or failure to obtain timely rate relief could decrease future profitability. The Company’s natural gas operations are regulated by the SCC. The SCC approves the rates that the Company charges its natural gas customers. If the SCC did not allow rates that provided for the timely recovery of costs or a reasonable rate of return on investment in natural gas distribution facilities, earnings could be negatively impacted. Debt and equity financings are also subject to SCC regulation and approval. Delays or lack of approvals could inhibit the ability to access capital markets and negatively impact liquidity or earnings. Inability to attract and maintain adequate staffing could affect operations. The Company is dependent on competent management and other professionally or technically trained employees for the safe, reliable and profitable operations of its natural gas distribution facilities. Aging of the work force and the choice by younger replacement workers not to accept employment in the natural gas and utility service industries could result in worker shortages and inhibit the Company’s ability to meet customer service needs and regulatory requirements. Effect of the federal budget deficit on corporate tax structure and the economic environment. The United States budget has been operating at a deficit of more than a trillion dollars annually during the last few years. The result is an increasing debt level of the United States government that will require greater resources to meet debt servicing needs. In order to reduce the growth in government debt, Congress and the Presidency will need to take actions that may include increasing tax revenues and decreasing governmental spending. The federal government could increase tax revenue by raising tax rates or eliminating deductions, either of which could increase the Company’s tax liability. Reduction in government spending could push the economy back into a recession which could lead to a decline in natural gas sales due to reduced economic production and higher bad debt expense due to the inability of some customers to pay their bills. Either or both of these scenarios could have a negative effect on the Company’s financial position and results of operation. Inability to complete necessary or desirable pipeline expansion or infrastructure development projects may delay or prevent the Company from adequately serving its customers or expanding its distribution system. In order to serve new customers or expand service to existing customers, the Company needs to maintain, expand or upgrade its distribution, transmission and/or storage infrastructure, including new pipeline installation. Various factors may prevent or delay the completion of such projects or make them more costly, such as the inability to obtain required approval from local, state and/or federal regulatory and governmental bodies, public opposition to the projects, inability to obtain adequate financing, competition for labor and materials, construction delays, cost overruns, and an inability to negotiate acceptable agreements relating to rights-of-way, construction or other material development components. As a result, the Company may not be able to adequately serve existing customers or support customer growth, which would negatively impact earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 