Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. References in this section to Conexant’s fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each year. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time these and other factors, together with changes in general economic conditions, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry, and in our business in particular. Periods of industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. These factors have caused substantial fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. We have experienced these cyclical fluctuations in our business in the past and may experience them in the future. Our operating results may be negatively affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these as well as other factors could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. As of September 29, 2006, we had a total of $706.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes outstanding, of which $456.5 million is due in February 2007 and $250.0 million is due in March 2026. The conversion price of the notes due in February 2007 is substantially higher than the current market value of our common stock. We also have an $80.0 million credit facility with a bank, under which we had borrowed $80.0 15 Table of Contents million as of September 29, 2006. This credit facility had an initial term of 364 days, and in November 2006, the term of the credit facility was extended through November 28, 2007. The facility remains subject to additional 364-day renewal periods at the discretion of the bank. On November 13, 2006, we issued $275.0 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior secured notes due November 2010. Proceeds from this issuance, net of fees, were approximately $268.1 million. These notes bear interest at three-month LIBOR (reset quarterly) plus 3.75%, and interest is payable in arrears quarterly on each February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15, beginning on February 15, 2007. We intend to use the net proceeds of this offering, together with available cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand, to repay at maturity or otherwise retire our outstanding $456.5 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes due February 2007. We may not have access to sufficient capital to repay amounts due under (i) our credit facility expiring November 2007 (if it is not renewed), (ii) our floating rate senior secured notes due November 2010, and (iii) our convertible subordinated notes due March 2026, and we may not be able to refinance any portion of this debt on favorable terms or at all. In the future, we may need to make strategic investments and acquisitions to help us grow our business, which may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly and may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our ability to repay our debt; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; • our inclusion in, or removal from, any equity market indices; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; and • judgments favorable or adverse to us. 16 Table of Contents In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and are currently experiencing, price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We have recently incurred substantial losses and we anticipate additional future losses. Our net losses for fiscal 2006 and 2005 were $122.6 million and $176.0 million, respectively. We have implemented a number of expense reduction and restructuring initiatives to improve our operating cost structure. The cost reduction initiatives included workforce reductions, the closure or consolidation of certain facilities and an increasing shift of product development resources to lower-cost regions, among other actions. However, these expense reduction initiatives alone will not return us to profitability. In order to return to profitability, we must achieve substantial revenue growth. We cannot assure you as to whether or when we will return to profitability or whether we will be able to sustain such profitability, if achieved. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of United States and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue. This competition has resulted in and is expected to continue to result in declining average selling prices for our products. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. Moreover, as with many companies in the semiconductor industry, customers for certain of our products offer other products that compete with similar products offered by us. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • level of integration; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. 17 Table of Contents The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our twenty largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 67%, 64% and 59% of our net revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; and • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products and reduce costs. Our operating results will depend largely on our ability to continue to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others: • our ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • our ability to accurately define new products; • our ability to timely complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • our ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • overall market acceptance of our products; • our ability to invest in significant amounts of research and development; and • our ability to transition product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China. As a result of the Paxonet Communications acquisition in December 2004 and organic growth, we have increased our headcount in India from approximately 180 employees at the end of fiscal 2004 to approximately 1,260 employees as of September 29, 2006. We plan to continue this growth trend in India and other international locations in the Asia-Pacific region. Expansion and transition of product development efforts to other locations entails risks associated with our ability to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations, to achieve key program milestones, and to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design and development of our products. If we experience product design or development delays as a result of the transition, or an inability to adequately staff the programs, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products. Furthermore, we are required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. In addition, prices of established products may decline, sometimes significantly and rapidly, over time. We believe that in order to remain competitive we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful and as a result gross margins may decline in future periods. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 92%, 90% and 89%, respectively, of our net revenues were from customers located outside of the United States, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, a significant portion of our workforce and many of our key suppliers are located outside the United States. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. We plan to continue our international expansion, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities; and • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property. Because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. We also conduct a significant portion of our international sales through distributors. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 35%, 28% and 36% of our net revenues for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our arrangements with these distributors are terminable at any time, and the loss of these arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. For those international distributors that we account for under a deferred revenue recognition model, we rely on the distributor to provide us timely and accurate product sell through information. No assurances can be given that these international distributors will continue to provide us this information. If we are unable to obtain this information on a timely basis, or if we determine that the information we do receive is unreliable, it may affect the accuracy of amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements, and therefore have an adverse effect on our operating results. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because our markets generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; and • evolving industry standards. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, members of our executive team, and those in design, technical, marketing and staff positions. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense in the semiconductor industry. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. In addition, we have relied on our ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options may impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully attract, motivate, and retain key personnel. If OEMs of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are not sold directly to the end-user but are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins”. Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need six months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. The lengthy period of time required 20 Table of Contents also increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we may incur significant research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 35%, 28% and 36% of our net revenues for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other supplier products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact their future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. For example, the reduced demand outlook for fiscal year 2005 and the further decline of average selling prices for certain of our products resulted in net inventory charges of approximately $45.0 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2005. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Under our fabless business model, our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer production capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we may experience delays in shipments or increased manufacturing costs. We do not have any long-term supply arrangements. There are significant risks associated with our reliance on third-party foundries, including: • the lack of assured wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices; • limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and product quality; and • the unavailability of, or delays in obtaining, access to key process technologies. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and test of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks as are described herein with respect to our reliance on outside wafer fabrication facilities. Wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test companies are currently experiencing increased demand for their capacity. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a wafer fabrication process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for our products. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. 21 Table of Contents The foundries and other suppliers on whom we rely may experience financial difficulties or suffer disruptions in their operations due to causes beyond our or their control, including labor strikes, work stoppages, electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding or other natural disasters. Certain of our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are located near major earthquake fault lines in California and the Asia-Pacific region. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. Difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products on favorable terms, or at all, could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis. Moreover, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. Currently our products are manufactured in a variety of process technologies ranging from 0.8 micron technology, which is our most mature technology, to 90 nanometer, which is the most advanced. We currently have product development efforts underway at the 65 nanometer process technology node. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition efficiently, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could negatively affect our relationships with our customers and result in the loss of design wins to our competitors, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times we incorporate the intellectual property of our customers into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We 22 Table of Contents may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Uncertainties involving litigation could adversely affect our business. We and certain of our current and former officers and directors have been named as defendants in several purported securities class action lawsuits, which have now been consolidated into a single action. We and certain of our directors and officers have also been named as defendants in purported shareholder derivative actions. We and certain of our current and former officers and our Employee Benefits Plan Committee have also been named as defendants in a purported breach of fiduciary duties action. Although we believe that these lawsuits are without merit, an adverse determination could have a negative impact on the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, the lawsuits may divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and acquisitions. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in: • large initial one-time write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our product lines and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 29, 2006, we had $710.8 million of goodwill and $76.0 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 50% of our total assets. Approximately $616.3 million of the goodwill was generated in our merger with GlobespanVirata, Inc. in February 2004. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related 23 Table of Contents intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our market capitalization drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, if our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or if other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a non-cash charge against earnings. Because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although it would have no effect on our cash flow. We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could adversely impact our business. Our former manufacturing operations used a variety of chemicals and were subject to a wide range of environmental protection regulations in the United States and Mexico. We have been designated as a potentially responsible party and are engaged in groundwater remediation under a previously approved Consent Decree at one Superfund site located at a former silicon wafer manufacturing facility and steel fabrication plant in Parker Ford, Pennsylvania formerly occupied by us, which has been settled pursuant to a Consent Decree entered into with the EPA in August 2006. In addition, we are engaged in remediations of groundwater contamination at our former Newport Beach, California wafer fabrication facility. We estimate the remaining costs for these remediations to be approximately $2.1 million as of September 29, 2006 and have accruals for these costs in our consolidated balance sheets. In the United States, environmental regulations often require parties to fund remedial action regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. While we have not experienced any material adverse effects on our operations as a result of such regulations, we cannot assure you that the costs that might be required to complete remedial actions, if any, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be limited in the future in the amount of net operating losses that we can use to offset taxable income. As of September 29, 2006, we had approximately $1.2 billion of U.S. federal income tax net operating loss (NOL) carry forwards that can be used to offset taxable income in subsequent years. Approximately $455.9 million of the NOL carry forwards were acquired in the merger with GlobespanVirata and in other acquisitions. The NOL carry forwards are scheduled to expire at various dates through 2026. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code could limit the future use of some or all of the NOL carry forwards if the ownership of our common stock changes by more than 50 percentage points in certain circumstances over a three-year testing period. Based on information known to us, we have not undergone such a change of ownership and the merger did not constitute a change of ownership, although the shares of our common stock issued in the merger will be taken into account in any change of ownership computations. Direct or indirect transfers of our common stock, when taken together with the shift in ownership resulting from the merger, could result in a change of ownership that would trigger the Section 382 limitation. If such an ownership change occurs, Section 382 would limit our use of NOL carry forwards in each subsequent taxable year to an amount equal to a federal long-term tax-exempt rate published by the Internal Revenue Service at the time of the ownership change, multiplied by our fair market value at such time; any unused annual limitation amounts may also be carried forward. The merger resulted in a change of ownership of GlobespanVirata and the future use of GlobespanVirata’s NOL carry forwards is subject to the Section 382 limitation (or further limitation in the case of NOL carry forwards already subject to limitation as a result of previous transactions) based on the fair market value of GlobespanVirata at the time of the merger. Provisions in our organizational documents and rights agreement and Delaware law may make it difficult for someone to acquire control of us. We have established certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock and convertible notes. Our restated certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, our rights agreement with Mellon Investor Services LLC, as rights agent, dated as of November 30, 1998, as amended, and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as: 24 Table of Contents • the division of our board of directors into three classes to be elected on a staggered basis, one class each year; • the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of our preferred stock in one or more series without further authorization of our shareholders; • a prohibition on shareholder action by written consent; • a requirement that shareholders provide advance notice of any shareholder nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting of shareholders; • a requirement that a supermajority vote be obtained to remove a director for cause or to amend or repeal certain provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws; • elimination of the right of shareholders to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • a fair price provision. Our rights agreement gives our shareholders certain rights that would substantially increase the cost of acquiring us in a transaction not approved by our board of directors. In addition to the rights agreement and the provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any business combination with any interested shareholder during the three-year period following the time that such shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, unless a majority of the directors then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder or specified shareholder approval requirements are met. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 