ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and our Company. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, operating performance and financial condition. WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH TO EVALUATE AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMPANY. We were founded in December 1997 and began selling textbooks on our website in August 1998. In May 2005, we acquired privately held Campus Outfitters, L.L.C. (“Campus Outfitters,”) a retailer of private elementary, middle and high school uniforms, which was founded in 1997 and began selling school uniforms in 1998. As a relatively new company, we face significant risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to successfully implement our strategy. If we are unable to grow as planned, our chances of maintaining profitability and the anticipated or forecasted results of operations could be reduced. You must consider the risks and uncertainties that a company with a limited operating history like ours faces. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties or are unable to execute our strategy, our business could be harmed which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. WE MUST CONTINUE TO CONVERT SCHOOLS TO OUR SCHOOL PROGRAMS AND RETAIN THEM IN THE PROGRAMS. To be successful, we must attract and retain a significant number of schools to our eduPartner and Campus Outfitter school programs. Ultimately, we must attract the students and parents from each eduPartner and Campus Outfitter school to our website or retail stores at a reasonable cost. Any significant shortfall in the expected number of purchases occurring through our website or retail stores may negatively affect our financial results. Conversion of schools from traditional on campus bookstore operations to our online textbook and retail uniform outsource solutions may not occur as rapidly as we expect. Therefore, we may not achieve the customer traffic we believe is necessary to sustain the growth and profitability of our enterprise. Specific factors that could prevent widespread customer acceptance of our business and our ability to increase retail revenues include: • lack of awareness of our eduPartner and Campus Outfitter school programs; • pricing that does not meet consumer expectations; • consumer concerns about the security of online transactions; • shipping charges, which do not apply to shopping at traditional retail stores and are not always charged by some of our online competitors; • the delivery time associated with online orders, as compared to the immediate receipt of products at traditional retail stores; • product damage from shipping or shipments of the wrong products, which may result in a failure to establish trust in purchasing our products online; • delays in responses to consumer inquiries or in deliveries to consumers; and 11 • difficulty in returning or exchanging orders. Based on these or other factors, we may not be able to retain existing eduPartners or Campus Outfitter member schools or sign-up new eduPartners or Campus Outfitter member schools. WE PRIMARILY RELY ON ONE SUPPLIER TO MEET OUR TEXTBOOK FULFILLMENT NEEDS. We depend on B&T as our primary supplier of the textbooks that we offer. Our relationship with B&T is critical to our success. Our current contract with B&T expires on June 30, 2008. If we are unable to renew this contract when it expires, or are unable to otherwise rely on B&T for inventory maintenance and shipping services and we are unable to open our own distribution center or establish a comparable vendor relationship before the B&T relationship discontinues, our business may be materially harmed. B&T warehouses most of our textbook inventory and we rely on them to maintain adequate inventory levels and rapidly fill our customers’ orders. Prices we pay for promotional, customer service and database management services and credits that we receive from B&T are currently based on volume and average cost requirements. Failure to meet these benchmarks would increase our costs. If they do not maintain sufficient inventory, or if they are unable to deliver the specific books our customers order or deliver these books in a timely fashion, we would not be able to meet our obligations to our customers, our revenues would decrease and we would likely experience a reduction in the value of our brand. If our relationship with B&T is disrupted or does not continue for any reason and we are unable to establish a comparable vendor relationship or open our own warehouse before the B&T relationship discontinues, we would not be able to fulfill our customers’ textbook orders. We cannot be certain that we would be able to establish new vendor relationships to ensure acquisition and distribution of textbooks in a timely and efficient manner or on acceptable commercial terms. In such event, we may determine that we need to maintain inventory, establish warehouse facilities and provide distribution services, which would require us to change our business model. In addition, we estimate that a single publisher represented approximately 18% of our textbook revenues in 2006. If B&T’s relationship with this publisher is disrupted or discontinued, our business may be harmed. We benefit from the shipping discounts offered to B&T by UPS and we rely on UPS and other third party common carriers for all shipments to and from B&T. If B&T’s relationship with UPS is discontinued or disrupted for any reason, we cannot be certain we would be able to affordably obtain comparable delivery services and might not be able to deliver textbooks to our customers in a timely manner. In addition, because we rely on third party common carriers to ship products to and from the B&T warehouses that our fulfillment is currently conducted from, we are subject to the risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, that may prevent such third parties from meeting our fulfillment and delivery needs. Failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may harm our reputation, our brand and our business. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION IN THE ONLINE TEXTBOOK MARKETS AND THAT COMPETITION MAY INCREASE SUBSTANTIALLY BECAUSE OF THE LOW BARRIERS TO MARKET ENTRY. The e-commerce and online textbook markets are new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Barriers to entry in the e-commerce industry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites quickly and at a relatively low cost. In addition, new and expanded Internet technologies, including search and web services, may further increase competition in the online textbook and e-commerce industries. We currently compete with a variety of other companies in the sale of textbooks, and if we are able to add other online product or service offerings we will have additional competition in those markets. Our current and potential competition in the textbook market includes the following categories of companies: • traditional new and used textbook retailers, such as campus bookstores; • traditional used textbook retailers, some of which have begun online selling; • textbook retailers and distributors such as the Follett Corporation, MBS Textbook Exchange, Nebraska Book Company, eCampus and Adams Book Company; and • Internet-based booksellers such as Amazon.com, Wal-Mart.com and BarnesandNoble.com We are not able to reliably estimate the number of our direct competitors. To date, our most active competitor targeting the private middle and high school textbook market with an online bookstore program is MBS Textbook Exchange. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer general retail operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, technological, operational and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors may be able to secure textbooks from vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing, shipping policies or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. As competition increases, we may experience reduced operating margins from pricing pressure or higher customer acquisition and retention costs, loss of market share and a diminished brand franchise. 12 To remain competitive, we may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that our supply channel (distributors and, indirectly, publishers) may enter the market and match our pricing through direct retail centers. Either or both of our supply channel or traditional operators of school bookstores may enter the online commerce market as our competitors. As Internet use becomes increasingly prevalent, it is possible that the full text of books we offer for sale will be available for viewing on the web or on other electronic devices such as virtual textbooks. If virtual textbooks become a reality and students rely on them in lieu of purchasing hard copies of textbooks, our business may decline. WE RELY ON OUR RELATIONSHIPS WITH VENDORS TO PURCHASE UNIFORM AND APPAREL MERCHANDISE AT FAVORABLE PRICES. IF THESE RELATIONSHIPS WERE TO BE IMPAIRED, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN A SUFFICIENT SELECTION OF MERCHANDISE AT ATTRACTIVE PRICES, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE IMPACT ON OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION, OUR BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. We do not have long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements with any of our uniform and apparel vendors and, therefore, our success in the school uniform retail market depends on maintaining good relations with them. Since our business is fundamentally dependent on selling merchandise at attractive prices, we must continue to obtain from our vendors a wide selection of this merchandise at favorable wholesale prices. Our growth strategy depends to a significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors to supply us with sufficient inventory to stock our stores. If we fail to continue to deepen and strengthen our relations with our existing vendors to improve the quality of merchandise they supply us we may limit our ability to obtain a sufficient amount and variety of merchandise at favorable prices, which could have a negative impact on our competitive position. WE PRIMARILY RELY ON ONE MANUFACTURER FOR CERTAIN MATERIALS REQUIRED BY SOME OF OUR CAMPUS OUTFITTER SCHOOLS. Some of our Campus Outfitter program schools require uniforms with specific fabric and design requirements. We believe that suitable materials for these school uniforms could be obtained from other manufacturers in the event that our regular supplier (because of financial difficulties or otherwise) is unable or fail to provide them. However, there could be a significant production delay or disruption caused by the inability of the current supplier to deliver these materials which would make it difficult to identify and utilize alternative suppliers quickly, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If we did experience any such delays or interruptions, there is no assurance that we would be able to find adequate alternative suppliers at a reasonable cost or without significant disruption to our business. WE MAY VIOLATE FINANCIAL COVENANTS UNDER OUR CREDIT FACILITY, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On March 8, 2007, the Company entered into a Revolving Line of Credit Loan Agreement (“Loan Agreement” and Security Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (“BOA”). If our financial performance results in a violation of financial covenants under our Loan Agreement in future periods, BOA retains the right, among others, to unilaterally alter or eliminate the extension of financing under the agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Please see Note 19. WE EXPERIENCED A SIGNIFICANT LOSS IN FISCAL 2006 DUE TO EXPENDITURES RELATED TO THE LAUNCH OF NEW SERVICE OFFERINGS AND LOSSES MAY CONTINUE IN 2007. Beginning in the second quarter of 2006, we moved aggressively to launch service offerings outside our core book and uniform offerings. Significant costs were incurred in this effort. In November 2006, due to the financial impact of cost increases together with limited new revenue generation from non-book/uniform service offerings, efforts to launch service offerings outside the book and uniform areas were terminated or suspended. Significant cost reductions have been implemented and our current strategy includes only the book, uniform and school supplies businesses, however, with management turnover and a significantly smaller management and employee workforce, the 2007 financial impact of these actions are uncertain. WE HAVE REDUCED OUR WORKFORCE AS PART OF OUR RECENT COST REDUCTION INITIATIVES. IF WE FAIL TO FIELD AND RETAIN A QUALIFIED WORKFORCE, OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. 13 We believe that our success depends on our ability to motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for skilled personnel can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining the personnel required to improve our financial performance and grow. In addition, the cost of hiring and retaining skilled employees is high. Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. Our recent cost reduction initiative may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, reduced employee morale and decreased productivity. In addition, the recent trading levels of our stock have decreased the value of our stock options granted to employees under our stock option plans. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek alternate employment, such as with larger, more established companies or companies that they perceive as having less volatile stock prices or better prospects. Continuity of personnel is a very important factor in sales and implementation of our software and our product development efforts. Attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a material decrease in employee morale or productivity could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. YOU SHOULD NOT RELY ON OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AS AN INDICATION OF OUR FUTURE RESULTS BECAUSE THEY ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular quarter. We expect to continue to experience significant seasonality in our business related to the academic calendar and the corresponding demand for textbooks, uniforms and educational materials. Due to the concentration of private middle and high schools in our eduPartners and Campus Outfitters school programs, our revenues are concentrated in the traditional Fall back-to-school season of July, August and September, our third calendar quarter. During the third quarter of 2006, 2005, and 2004, our revenues were approximately 88%, 86%, and 85% of total annual revenues, respectively. We expect this trend to continue. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline. You should not rely on sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal trends in the textbook and school uniform industry and in the buying habits of students; • concentration of private middle and high schools in our eduPartners and Campus Outfitters school programs; • our ability to manage or influence inventory and fulfillment operations; • the level of merchandise returns we experience; • our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, maintain customer satisfaction and respond to our competitors; • introduction of enhancements or a change in pricing policies, by us or our competitors, or a change in pricing policy by our fulfillment sources in either the textbook or school uniform industries; • changes in the amount and timing of expenditures related to marketing, information technology and other operating expenses to support future growth; • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our website specifically; • potential acquisitions or strategic alliances either by us or our competitors; • general economic conditions, economic conditions specific to the Internet, eCommerce or the textbook and uniform industries; and • our ability to adequately staff our retail locations. As a result of the seasonal fluctuations and because the online sale of textbooks and online selling in general is relatively new and it is difficult to predict consumer demand, it is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, it is likely that the price of our stock would decline. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK WITH OUR TEXTBOOKS. Our textbook inventory balance as of December 31, 2006 consisted mainly of: • New textbooks consist of new book inventory primarily held at Baker & Taylor (“B&T”), our fulfillment partner, acquired by B&T or by the Company in support of our eduPartners program for which there generally are not standard return privileges with the publisher. New textbooks also include inventory held at Campus Outfitters retail locations and new textbooks held at other locations; and • Used textbooks held at B&T, Campus Outfitters retail locations, or other locations. Under our agreement with B&T in which B&T provides our order fulfillment and drop shipment services, B&T assumes ownership of all new textbooks until shipment and does not assume ownership of the used products it processes for us. 14 Approximately 90% of new textbook unsold inventory at B&T is returned for credit with our publishers, which substantially reduces our risk of inventory obsolescence, however, we take title to the remaining unsold inventory and write down this balance for estimated excess and obsolete or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions on a quarterly basis. Should textbook return privileges extended to B&T or us by publishers materially change, we may face increased inventory risk and higher working capital requirements which could adversely affect our operating results. For example, during 2006, our largest publisher imposed a restocking fee on textbook returns, increasing our cost of sales by approximately $0.4 million. To the extent that we continue to procure used textbooks and maintain textbook inventory at our Campus Outfitter retail operations, we will face increased inventory risk, which may adversely affect our operation results. WE HAVE EXPERIENCED THE LOSS OF SEVERAL KEY EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL AND THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR REMAINING KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL OR THE INABILITY OF OUR REMAINING KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL TO WORK TOGETHER EFFECTIVELY OR SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR OPERATIONS COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Our future operations depend to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of our management team, particularly Eric J. Kuhn, our co-founder and Chairman of the Board, and Jim Craig, our Chief Financial Officer since May 17, 2006 and Interim President and Chief Executive Officer since November 17, 2006. We have entered into agreements with Mr. Kuhn and Mr. Craig that provide, among other things, that they are compensated in the event they are terminated without cause. The loss or departure of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan. We do not maintain key person insurance on any member of our management team. WE REDUCED OUR STAFFING BY APPROXIMATELY 40% DURING OUR FOURTH QUARTER OF 2006 AND IF WE FAIL TO EMPLOY AND RETAIN A QUALIFIED WORKFORCE, OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of several key operating managers and employees, many of whom have been employed by Varsity Group for extended periods and have intimate knowledge of our systems, processes and procedures. We have entered into agreements with several key operating managers and employees that provide, among other things, that they are compensated in the event they are terminated without cause. Also, several key members of the SchoolOne staff have intimate knowledge of our information technology systems and their operation. SchoolOne has taken actions to retain these key staff members. The loss or departure of any significant number of these individuals could harm our operating performance and our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADAPT AS INTERNET TECHNOLOGIES AND CUSTOMER DEMANDS CONTINUE TO EVOLVE, OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS COULD BECOME LESS DESIRABLE. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer service levels. An unanticipated dramatic increase in the volume of traffic on our website or the number of orders placed by our customers may force us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our website or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually enhancing the technologies used in our Internet products and services and introducing new technology to address the changing needs of our business and customers. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or business and customer requirements, our business could be harmed. We are continuing to upgrade our information systems, which includes substantially all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, cash and credit card processing, purchasing, inventory management and shipping in order to accommodate the Campus Outfitters acquisition, the continued growth of our textbook program, and to comply with the numerous reporting and control requirements imposed by the Sarbanes Oxley Act, including Section 404, in part for our December 31, 2007 10-K and fully for 2008. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and provide high-quality customer service, largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. While many of the Campus Outfitters uniform systems were upgraded in time for the 2006 selling season, we did experience delays in the release of our new order management and inventory management software systems, which contributed to operational difficulties that we feel were a considerable factor contributing to the causes of the 15 increase in cost of uniforms in 2006. We completed upgrades to our textbook transaction system in our second quarter of 2006, however, these systems upgrades are complex. This complexity can make it difficult to detect errors or failure in our website prior to implementation. We may not immediately discover errors in our new system until the volume of orders placed by our customers significantly increases from the levels we experienced in our last fall back to school season. As a result, the upgraded website may not achieve the expected benefits. Unanticipated problems with our website may result in customer dissatisfaction, a loss of, or delays in, the market acceptance of our website, and lost revenue and collection difficulties during the period required to correct these errors. Failure to correct these problems may harm our reputation, our brand and our business. WE DEPEND ON A THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDER FOR OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE. IF OUR THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDER EXPERIENCES ANY SYSTEM FAILURE OR INADEQUACY, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE JEOPARDIZED. Our operations are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and communications software and equipment in effective working order and to protect our systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure or similar events. In addition, the growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the capacity of our computer and communications systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and provide high-quality customer service, largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. We use an internally developed system for our website, search engine and substantially all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, cash and credit card processing, purchasing, inventory management and shipping. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware and software systems associated with the operation of our website are located at a single facility in Cleveland, Ohio. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware and software systems associated with the operation of our website are located at a single secure which is located in Cleveland, Ohio, hosts our server environment and acts as our Internet service provider A disruption in this Internet service could cause a disruption in our ability to service our clients. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. Any damage, failure or delay that causes interruptions in our system operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to our offsite software and hardware related to our website, at our headquarters we maintain a local area network, or LAN, which we use for our financial reporting systems, customer service operations, monitoring of our customer orders, e-mails and other internal processes. Any loss of service or other failure of this LAN, regardless of the availability of our website, would significantly impair our ability to service our customers and monitor and fulfill customer orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of either our website or our LAN or any other systems interruptions that results in unavailability of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance, especially during the peak Fall sales period of July/August/September, could result in negative publicity or could reduce the volume of goods sold and attractiveness of our website and would seriously impair our ability to service our customers’ orders, all of which could negatively affect our revenues. Because our servers are located at a third-party’s facility and because some of the reasons for a systems interruption may be outside of our control, we also may not be able to exercise sufficient control to remedy the problem quickly or at all. Regardless of whether we or a third-party controls or creates system failure, the occurrence of system failure could adversely affect our reputation, seriously harm our business and cause us to lose a significant and disproportionate amount of revenues. CONCERNS ABOUT SECURITY ON THE INTERNET MAY REDUCE THE USE OF OUR WEBSITE AND IMPEDE OUR GROWTH. A significant barrier to confidential communications over the Internet has been the need for security. We rely on SSL encryption technology designed to prevent the misappropriation of customer credit card data during the transaction process. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions where, as is the case with the transactions we process, that merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our collections and harm our business. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurred. Our site could be particularly affected by any such breach because our online commerce model requires the entry of confidential customer ordering, purchasing and delivery data over the Internet, and we maintain a database of this historical customer information. Until more comprehensive security technologies are developed, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a medium for commerce. We cannot be certain that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in the compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect content and transactions on our website or proprietary information in our databases. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary, confidential customer 16 or company information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO BURDENSOME GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES AFFECTING THE INTERNET THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. To date, governmental regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in our markets. However, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the Internet is uncertain and may change. Uncertainty and new regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from delivering our products and services over the Internet. The growth of the Internet may also be significantly slowed. This could delay growth in demand for our online services and limit the growth of our revenues. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. New and existing laws may cover issues, which include: • sales and other taxes; • user privacy; • pricing controls; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • consumer protection; • libel and defamation; • copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and • other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. THE SARBANES OXLEY ACT OF 2002 IMPOSES ADDITIONAL OBLIGATIONS ON US, INCLUDING THE REQUIREMENT THAT WE DOCUMENT AND EVALUATE OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS. THIS EXERCISE HAS NO PRECEDENT AVAILABLE BY WHICH TO MEASURE THE ADEQUACY OF OUR COMPLIANCE AND MAY RESULT IN NON- COMPLIANCE WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. EFFORTS TO COMPLY WILL RESULT IN ADDITIONAL OPERATING EXPENSES, WHICH MAY MATERIALLY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and newly proposed or enacted rules and regulations of the SEC and NASDAQ impose new duties on us and our executives, directors, attorneys and independent accountants. In order to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and such new rules and regulations, we are evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting. Based on the most recent rules adopted by the SEC, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in part, for our December 31, 2007 Form 10-K and fully for 2008. Given our small company size and our limited resources, we expect that efforts to comply with these new regulations will partially offset our anticipated significant decreases in general and administrative expenses in fiscal 2007 and 2008 due to our recent cost reductions as we will be required to hire additional personnel and use additional outside legal, accounting and advisory services. Additionally, we expect that our efforts to prepare to comply with these new regulations will also result in a significant diversion of management time and attention from operating activities to compliance activities. Any of these developments could materially offset savings otherwise anticipated in our operating expenses or affect our operating performance, which would adversely affect financial results. We cannot be certain as to the outcome of our testing and resulting remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations since there is no precedent available by which to measure compliance adequacy. If we are not able to implement the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or NASDAQ, and our reputation may be harmed. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and may adversely affect our stock price. Moreover, because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. WE HAVE LIMITED FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND OPERATE IN A HIGHLY SEASONAL BUSINESS WHICH MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS OR TAKE ADVANTAGE OF FINANCIAL INCENTIVES IMPACTING OUR OPERATING MARGINS. Our business is presently highly seasonal, with the vast bulk of our revenues from the sale of books and apparel being earned during the back to school season in the third quarter of each year. In addition, beginning in the second quarter of 2006, we moved aggressively to launch service offerings outside our core book and uniform offerings. We experienced significant cash expenditures in this effort. In November 2006, due to the financial impact of cost increases and cash expenditures together with limited new revenue generation from non-book/uniform service offerings, efforts to launch service offerings outside the book and uniform areas were terminated or suspended. Significant cost reductions have been implemented, and our current strategy 17 includes only the book, uniform and school supplies businesses, however, as a result of this, our net cash and investments position is approximately $9.8 million lower as of December 31, 2006 compared to the prior period. This lower cash position as of December 31, 2006 together with the negative seasonality impact on cash during the January to June 2007 period may effect our ability to take advantage of significant early payment discounts available from our textbook fulfillment provider during part of or most of our Fall 2007 selling season and thereby increase the cost of textbooks in fiscal 2007. Early payment and prompt payment discounts from our textbook fulfillment provider were approximately $0.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, during 2006. As a result of our lower cash position as of December 31, 2006, we entered into a Revolving Line of Credit Loan Agreement and Security Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (“BOA”) in which BOA will lend up to a maximum amount of $5 million to assist in funding our seasonal cash requirements. We may also issue letters of credit under the facility. Borrowing ceiling levels are established monthly utilizing a borrowing base formula based on percentages of month-end inventory, receivable and investment collateral values. A $2 million restricted cash investment is required to be maintained at all times as the investment collateral portion of the borrowing base. The facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. The agreement terminates on April 30, 2008. With the BOA agreement in place, we presently believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments are sufficient to fund our operating needs until the 2007 back to school season and that cash generated from our sales during the back to school season will fund our cash needs for the remainder of the fiscal 2007 year. We are still considering spending reductions and additional external financings to meet our liquidity needs. Please see “Forward-Looking Statements.” NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR STOCK PRICE. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123R”.) This statement, which because effective in our first quarter of 2006, changes how we account for share-based compensation and may negatively impact our stock price. The future impact of adoption of SFAS 123R is difficult to predict because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. However, we believe if we had adopted SFAS 123R in periods prior to fiscal 2006, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS 123 as described in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. SFAS 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. This requirement will reduce our net operating cash flows and increase our net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. In the year ended December 31, 2006, we recognized approximately $725,000 in expense related to the adoption of this new accounting standard. OUR ACQUISITION OF CAMPUS OUTFITTERS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR COMBINED FINANCIAL RESULTS IN FUTURE YEARS. On May 26, 2005, we completed our first acquisition, acquiring substantially all of the assets of Campus Outfitters, a leading retailer of private elementary, middle and high school uniforms. As a result, we incurred acquisition and integration costs which contributed to a decrease in income before taxes. During our third and fourth quarters of 2006, the uniform business of Campus Outfitters experienced unexpected operational difficulties, which negatively affected its financial performance and the overall performance of Varsity Group, contributing to a significant decrease in Varsity Group market capitalization during the fourth quarter of 2006. We may experience additional unforeseen integration expenditures or we may not realize expected synergies between our businesses. If this happens, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. OUR CAMPUS OUTFITTER BUSINESS DEPENDS IN PART ON THE AVAILABILITY OF SUITABLE LEASE SPACE TO SELL ITS SCHOOL UNIFORMS. Through our Campus Outfitters brand, we sell school uniforms to the private K-12 school marketplace at retail locations in Indiana, Maryland, Michigan, North Carolina, New York, Ohio, Texas and Virginia. Part of our future growth is dependent on our ability to continue to operate these stores in desirable locations with lease costs that allow us to earn a reasonable return. One retail location is currently leased month-to-month and the other retail locations have leases that are scheduled to expire between January 2007 and May 2015. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our current leases as they expire, or that new leases will be available on terms acceptable to us. Failure to renew expiring leases may harm our reputation, our brand and our business. IF WE DO NOT SUCCESSFULLY OPERATE OUR CAMPUS OUTFITTER RETAIL LOCATIONS, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE HARMED. If we do not successfully operate our Campus Outfitter retail locations, our ability to meet customer demand could be significantly limited. Because our business model has not depended on sales from retail locations in the past, we may not manage our retail facilities in an optimal way, which may result in an excess or insufficient amount of inventory at our retail locations. A failure to optimize inventory in our retail locations will increase our shipping costs, by requiring us to make additional shipments to or from retail locations or vendors. We may be unable to adequately staff our retail locations. As we 18 expand our retail customer base, our fulfillment network may become increasingly complex and operating it will become more challenging. There can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our fulfillment network effectively. AS INTERNET TECHNOLOGY AND REGULATION ADVANCES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR DOMAIN NAMES. We currently hold various Internet domain names relating to our brands, including the “VarsityBooks.com”, “VarsityGroup.com”, “Varsity-Group.com” and “CampusOutfitters.com” domain names. Governmental agencies and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the generic category of domain names (i.e., .com, .net and .org) is now controlled by a non-profit corporation, which may create additional top-level domains. Requirements for holding domain names have also been affected. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any such inability could harm our business. SOME STATES MAY IMPOSE A NEW SALES TAX ON OUR BUSINESS. A 1992 Supreme Court decision held that the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution limits a state’s ability to impose a sales or use tax collection responsibility on an out-of-state vendor unless such vendor maintains a physical presence, i.e., substantial nexus, in the taxing state. Based on this Supreme Court decision, we have determined that we do not have a substantial nexus in some jurisdictions where our products are received by customers, and, therefore, do not collect or remit sales or use tax in such jurisdictions. Because the scope of the 1992 Supreme Court decision is unclear, states may challenge our determination of substantial nexus. If successful, such challenges could result in significant liabilities for sales and use taxes with a material and adverse effect on our business. We currently collect and remit sales or use tax on all shipments to eighteen states. The 1992 Supreme Court decision also established that Congress has the power to enact legislation that would permit states to require collection of sales and use taxes by mail-order companies. Congress has from time to time considered proposals for such legislation. We anticipate that any legislative change, if adopted, would be applied on a prospective basis. While there is no case law on the issue, we believe that this analysis could also apply to our online business. Recently, several states and local jurisdictions have expressed an interest in taxing e-commerce companies who do not have any contacts with their jurisdictions other than selling products online to customers in such jurisdictions. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO MAINTAIN OUR NASDAQ NATIONAL MARKET LISTING, OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE SUBJECT TO DELISTING FROM THE NATIONAL MARKET AND YOUR ABILITY TO TRADE SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD SUFFER. In September 2004, our common stock was approved for relisting on the NASDAQ National Market and began trading on the NASDAQ National Market on September 29, 2004. For our common stock to remain listed on the NASDAQ, we must meet the minimum listing requirements for continued listing, including, among other requirements, minimum bid price and market value of public float requirements. If we fail to continue to meet the minimum listing requirements, we may be delisted from the NASDAQ. If our common stock is delisted from the NASDAQ, sales of our common stock would likely be conducted only in the over-the counter market. This may have a negative impact on the liquidity and the price of our common stock, and investors may find it more difficult to purchase or dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of, our common stock. THE TRADING PRICE FOR OUR COMMON STOCK MAY DROP AND THIS COULD AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO RESELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE YOU PAID TO PURCHASE SUCH SHARES. The stock market, in general, and the trading prices of shares in public technology companies, particularly those such as ours that offer Internet-based products and services, have experienced extraordinary price and volume volatility in recent years. Such volatility has adversely affected the stock prices for many companies irrespective of, or disproportionately to, the operating performance of these companies. Indeed, the trading price of our common stock dropped significantly during the year ended December 31, 2000, thereby precipitating our delisting from the NASDAQ National Market in March 2001. Alternatively, the trading price of our common stock rose significantly during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, ultimately leading to our common stock being relisted on the NASDAQ National Market in September 2004. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, the trading price of our common stock dropped significantly. We believe that these fluctuations in our stock prices could be the result of many factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: • our quarterly or annual results in operations; • investor perception of us, online retailing services and retail store services in general; • general economic conditions both in the United States and in foreign countries; • adverse or favorable business developments; 19 • futures sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by our existing shareholders, officers or directors; • failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; and • announcements by us or our competitors of new products and services. As a result of these factors, we cannot assure you that the trading price of our common stock will not drop again or stay at its current price. Market and industry factors may materially and adversely further affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Significant decreases in the trading price of our common stock is likely to affect our visibility and credibility in our market and this could affect your ability to resell your shares at or above the price you paid to purchase such shares. IF OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE, WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO SECURITIES LITIGATION WHICH IS EXPENSIVE AND COULD RESULT IN A DIVERSION OF RESOURCES. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs to us in defending against the lawsuit and a diversion of management’s attention that could cause our business to be harmed. FUTURE SALES OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock by our existing shareholders, officers or directors, or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. IT MAY BE DIFFICULT FOR A THIRD PARTY TO ACQUIRE OUR COMPANY AND THIS COULD DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE. Delaware corporate law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our by-laws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Varsity Group or a change of our management that stockholders may consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include those which: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • provide for a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent; and • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. 20 