Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS This section summarizes certain risks, among others, that shareholders and prospective investors should consider. Many of these risks are discussed in other sections of this report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks of which we are presently unaware or that we currently consider immaterial may also impair our business operations and hinder our financial performance. Risks Related to Our Business We generate a significant amount of our revenues from our accounts receivable financing solution and our retail inventory management services, and those revenues have declined in recent years. If these trends continue, our financial performance may be materially and adversely affected. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 38.8% of our consolidated revenues from participation fees, license fees, insurance brokerage fees, and maintenance fees from BusinessManager®, our accounts receivable financing solution, and approximately 14.5% of our consolidated revenues from fees generated by RMSA, our retail inventory management services product. We expect to continue to generate a substantial portion of our revenues from BusinessManager® and RMSA during 2008. In recent years, our revenues from BusinessManager® declined from year-to-year. If our annual revenues from BusinessManager® continue to decline or begin to decline more rapidly, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues from our other products or services to offset that decline. In addition, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to successfully market and sell BusinessManager® to both financial institutions and their small business customers or successfully market. Our failure to do so, or any events that adversely affect BusinessManager®, would materially and adversely affect our overall business. The loss of our chief executive officer or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. Lynn Boggs, our chief executive officer, has substantial experience in our industry. Although we maintain key man life insurance on Mr. Boggs and we have an employment agreement with him, our client and marketing relationships would likely be impaired and our business would likely suffer if, for any reason, we lost the services of Mr. Boggs. In addition, we believe that our success depends on the continued contribution of a number of our other executive officers or key employees. The loss of services of any of these individuals would similarly adversely affect our business. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we experienced employee turnover in the position of chief financial officer, which has contributed to the material weakness in our internal controls disclosed in this report. There is no guarantee that this turnover will not affect our operations and results, particularly if we continue to have instability at this position. Acquisitions could result in integration difficulties, unexpected expenses, diversion of management’s attention and other negative consequences. Our growth strategy is partly based on making acquisitions. We plan to continue to acquire complementary businesses, products, and services. We must integrate the technology, products and services, operations, systems and personnel of acquired businesses, including our recent acquisitions, with our own and attempt to grow the acquired businesses as part of our company. The integration of other businesses is a complex process and places significant demands on our management, financial reporting, technical capabilities and other company resources. The successful integration of businesses we acquire is critical to our future success, and if we are unsuccessful in integrating these businesses, our financial and operating performance could suffer. The risks and challenges associated with acquisitions include: • the inability to centralize and consolidate our financial, operational, and administrative functions with those of the businesses we acquire; • our management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns; • the inability to retain and motivate key employees of an acquired company; • our entrance into markets in which we have little or no prior direct experience; • the inability to prepare and file with the SEC in a timely manner the required financial statements of businesses we acquire; • litigation, indemnification claims, and other unforeseen claims and liabilities that may arise from the acquisition or operation of acquired businesses; • the costs necessary to complete integration exceeding our expectations or outweighing some of the intended benefits of the acquisitions we close; • the inability to maintain the client relationships of an acquired business; and • the costs necessary to improve or replace the operating systems, products, and services of acquired businesses, which may exceed our expectations. We may be unable to integrate our acquisitions with our operations on schedule or at all. We cannot assure you that we will not incur significant accounting charges or other expenses in connection with any of our acquisitions or that our acquisitions will result in cost savings or sufficient revenues or earnings to justify our investment in, or our expenses related to, these acquisitions. Acquisitions could also result in material impairment charges as we review our acquired assets. We may acquire companies that have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in their internal control over financial reporting, which may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements, and harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to successfully integrate the business operations of companies we acquire in the future into our business operations, we will not realize the anticipated potential benefits from these acquisitions and our business could be adversely affected. Any future acquisitions we complete will involve the integration of companies that have previously operated independently and may be in markets that are new to us. Successful integration of future acquired businesses with our business entails numerous challenges and will depend on our ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures, eliminate redundancies, and reduce costs. If we are unable to do so, we may not realize any anticipated potential benefits of the acquisitions, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Because our business involves the electronic storage and transmission of data, security breaches, and computer viruses could expose us to litigation and adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Our online transaction processing systems electronically store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. The difficulty of securely storing confidential information electronically has been a significant issue in conducting electronic transactions. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our clients involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also result in interruptions of service to our clients, which could cause existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and could inhibit our ability to attract new clients. If we incur losses, we could experience difficulty meeting our business plan and our stock price could decline. We may not be able to maintain our financial performance as we implement our business plan. Any failure to achieve and maintain profitability could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. If our revenues decline or grow slower than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business operations and financial results will suffer. We anticipate that we will incur significant product development, administrative, and sales and marketing expenses. In light of these expenses, any failure to increase revenues significantly may also harm our ability to achieve and maintain profitability. If we are unable to maintain or grow our business, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. In recent years, revenues generated by our accounts receivable financing solution and retail inventory management services have declined. We cannot guarantee that our revenues will not continue to decline. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues, our operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any new sustained growth will place a significant strain on our management systems and operational resources. We anticipate that new sustained growth, if any, will require us to recruit, hire and retain new managerial, finance, sales, marketing and support personnel. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in recruiting, hiring or retaining those personnel. Our ability to compete effectively and to manage our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to maintain and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our work force. If we begin to grow, we cannot be certain that our personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations. Our business significantly depends on a productive sales force, and our sales force has experienced management and employee turnover in recent years. If these problems recur, we may not be able to achieve our sales plans or maintain our current level of sales. An important part of our sales strategy is to attract, hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel to maintain and expand our marketing capabilities. Because competition for experienced sales and marketing personnel is intense, we cannot be certain that we will be able to attract and retain enough qualified sales and marketing personnel or that those we do hire will be able to generate new business at the rate we currently expect. In recent years, we have experienced a significant amount of turnover in the management and personnel of our sales force, which we believe has been a factor in our declining revenues from our accounts receivable financing and retail inventory management products. If we are unable to hire and retain enough qualified sales and marketing personnel, or those we hire are not as productive as we expect, we may not be able to achieve our sales plans or maintain our current level of sales. Because we have a long sales and implementation cycle for some of our solutions, we face the risk of not closing sales after expending significant resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must expend substantial time, effort and money educating potential clients about the value of some of our solutions, particularly our core data processing solution. We may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to generate any revenues. For our core data processing solution, our sales cycle generally ranges between six to nine months, and our implementation cycle generally ranges between six to nine additional months. Many of our other products require similarly long sales and implementation cycles. Our sales cycle for all of our products and services is subject to significant risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including: • our clients’ budgetary constraints; • the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes; • our clients’ willingness to replace their current vendors; • the success and continued support of our strategic marketing partners’ sales efforts; and • the timing and expiration of our clients’ current license agreements or outsourcing agreements for similar services. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or if we experience delays as discussed above, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Competition, restrictions under our credit facility, market conditions, and other factors may impede our ability to acquire other businesses and may inhibit our growth. We anticipate that we may derive a portion of our future growth through acquisitions. The success of this strategy depends on our ability to: • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • reach agreements to acquire these companies; • obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms; and • successfully integrate the operations of these businesses. In pursuing acquisitions, we may compete with other companies that have similar growth strategies. Many of these competitors are larger and have greater financial, operational, and technical resources than we have. This competition may inhibit our ability to acquire businesses that could improve our growth or expand our operations. 10 Table of Contents We may not be able to enter into and successfully implement strategic alliances, which could limit our ability to grow our business as we intend. One element of our growth strategy is to evaluate and pursue strategic alliances that are complementary to our business. However, we may not be able to identify or negotiate strategic alliances on acceptable terms. If we are not able to establish and maintain strategic alliances, we may not be able to fully implement our growth strategy. In addition, pursuing and implementing strategic alliances may cause a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be unable to market our products and services successfully to new client financial institutions or to retain current client financial institutions. If we are unable to do so, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to persuade prospective client financial institutions to use our products. Failure to maintain market acceptance, retain clients or successfully expand the products and services we offer could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have spent, and will continue to spend, considerable resources educating potential clients about our products and services. Even with these educational efforts, however, we may be unable to grow or maintain market acceptance of our products and services or retain our clients. In addition, as we continue to offer new products and expand our services, existing and potential client financial institutions or their small business customers may be unwilling to accept the new products or services. The failure to execute our growth plans may affect our ability to remain a publicly traded company. We intend to grow organically and through acquisitions and strategic alliances. These growth plans will require a substantial expenditure of time, money and other valuable resources. Not only does this take resources away from our current business, but we face the risk that our strategy will not ultimately be successful. In that event, the continued costs associated with being a public company may outweigh the anticipated organic growth of our current business, which could result in our being delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market or engaging in a going private transaction. Our plans to expand the number of products and services we offer may not be successful and may lower our overall profit margin. Part of our business strategy is to expand our offering of products and services. We believe that we can provide these new services profitably, but they may generate a lower profit margin than our current products and services. As a result, by offering additional products and services, we may lower our overall profit margin. Although gross revenues would likely increase, the lowering of our profit margin may be viewed negatively by the stock market, possibly resulting in a reduction in our stock price. We may be unable to compete in our markets, which could cause us not to achieve our growth plans and materially and adversely affect our financial performance. The market for financial institutions and small business financial services is highly competitive. We face primary competition from a number of companies that offer to financial institutions products and services that are similar to ours, and many of these competitors are much larger and have more resources than we do. Community financial institution clients that offer BusinessManager®, our accounts receivable financing solution, compete with other financial institutions and financing providers that offer lines of credit, amortizing loans, factoring and other traditional types of financing to small businesses. Many of these other financial institutions and financing providers are much larger and more established than we are, have significantly greater resources, generate more revenues and have greater name recognition. In addition, as we expand our service offerings, we may begin competing against companies with whom we have not previously competed. Increased competition may result in price reductions, lower profit margins and loss of our market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Both our traditional and new competitors may develop products and services comparable or superior to those that we have developed or adapt more quickly to new technologies, evolving industry trends or changing small business requirements. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, our prospects for future growth and our overall business. Our success depends largely upon our ability to protect our current and future proprietary technology through a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret and unfair competition laws. Although we assess the advisability of patenting any technological development, we have historically relied on copyright and trade secret law, as well as employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, to protect our intellectual property rights. The protection afforded by these means may not be as complete as patent protection. We cannot be certain that we have taken adequate steps to deter misappropriation or independent development of our technology by others. Although we are not currently subject to any dispute regarding our proprietary technology, any claims of that nature brought or resolved against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If our products or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. Others may claim that our proprietary technology infringes their intellectual property. Any claims of that nature, whether with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause us to cease making, licensing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • require us to redesign our products, if feasible; • divert our management’s attention and resources; and • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Others may assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future products and services, and we cannot be certain that those claims would be resolved in our favor. Although we are not currently engaged in any dispute of that nature, any infringement claims resolved against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents The failure of our network infrastructure and equipment could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure of our network infrastructure and equipment, as well as the occurrence of significant human error, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems, could halt our services, damage network equipment and result in substantial expense to repair or replace damaged equipment. In addition, the failure of our telecommunication providers to supply necessary services to us could also interrupt our business, particularly the application hosting and transaction processing services we offer to our client financial institutions via secure Internet connections. The inability to supply these services to our clients could negatively affect our business, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Currently, we have only one core data and two item processing centers. Interruption in our processing or communications services could delay transfers of our clients’ data, or damage or destroy the data. Any of these occurrences could result in litigation or loss of clients and could also harm our reputation. We rely on the technological infrastructure of our client financial institutions and their individual customers, and any failure of that infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and our business. The success of the products and services we offer depends, to some extent, on the technological infrastructure and equipment of our client financial institutions and their small business customers. We provide application hosting and transaction processing services to our clients that require some level of integration with the client’s technological infrastructure. Proper technical integration with our clients is critical to our being able to provide our services. A failure of a client’s infrastructure for any reason could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results. Increased fraud committed by small businesses and increased uncollectible accounts of small businesses may adversely affect our accounts receivable financing business. Small business customers of our financial institution clients sometimes fraudulently submit artificial receivables to our clients. In addition, small business customers may keep cash payments that their consumers mistakenly send to them instead of our financial institution clients. Our clients are also susceptible to uncollectible accounts from their small business customers. Many of our clients purchase insurance through us to insure against some of these risks. If the number and amount of fraudulent or bad debt claims increase, our clients may decide to reduce or terminate their use of our accounts receivable financing products and services, reducing our ability to attract and retain revenue-producing clients and to cross-sell our other products and services to them. Further, the insurance carrier that provides coverage for our insurance products may increase rates or cancel coverage, reducing our ability to produce revenue and reducing our margins on that business. We could be sued for contract or product liability claims that exceed our available insurance coverage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failures in the products and services we provide could result in an increase in service and warranty costs or a claim for substantial damages against us. We can give no assurances that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors and omissions in excess of the applicable deductible amount. We can give no assurances that this coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that it will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or coinsurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, litigation could result in substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention from our operations. In addition, because some of our products and services affect the core business processes of our community financial institution clients, a failure or inability to meet a client’s expectations could seriously damage our reputation and negatively affect our ability to attract new business. We may not have adequate capital to support our planned growth, which could significantly impair our ability to add new products or services. A significant part of our growth plans rests on the development of new products, the completion of strategic acquisitions, and the formation of strategic alliances. To execute our growth plans as we intend, we may need additional capital. Market conditions at the time we need this capital may preclude access to new capital of any kind or to capital on terms acceptable to us. Any of these developments could significantly hinder our ability to add new products or services, pursue strategic acquisitions, or enter into strategic alliances. If our products and services contain errors, we may lose clients and revenues and be subject to claims for damages. Our products and services may have undetected errors or failures, despite testing by our current and potential clients and by us. If we discover errors after we have introduced a new or updated product to the marketplace, we could experience, among other things: • delayed or lost revenues while we correct the errors; • a loss of clients or the delay or failure to achieve market acceptance; and • additional and unexpected expenses to fund further product development. Our agreements with our clients generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims, such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages. These provisions may not be effective because of existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances, or unfavorable judicial decisions. If our products and services fail to function properly, we could be subject to product liability claims, which could result in increased litigation expense, damage awards and harm to our business reputation. Technological changes may reduce the demand for our products and services or render them obsolete, which would reduce our revenue and income. The introduction of new technologies and financial products and services can render existing technology products and services obsolete. We expect other vendors to introduce new and enhanced products and services that will compete with our current products and services. To be successful, we must anticipate evolving industry trends, continue to apply advances in technology, enhance our existing products and services and develop or acquire new products and services to meet the demands of our clients. We may not be successful in developing, acquiring or marketing new or enhanced products or services that respond to technological change or evolving client needs. We may also incur substantial costs in developing and employing new technologies. If we fail to adapt to changes in technologies, we could lose clients and revenues, and fail to attract new clients or otherwise realize the benefits of costs we incur. Examination of our business by regulatory agencies could cause us to incur significant expenses, and failure to remedy any identified deficiency would adversely affect our business. We are subject to federal and state examination under the authority of the Bank Service Company Act and must comply with the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and other laws and regulations that apply to depository and financial institutions. Bank regulators have broad supervisory authority to require the correction of any 12 Table of Contents deficiencies or other negative findings identified in any such examination. Efforts to correct any deficiency or to otherwise comply with existing regulations could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. The failure to adequately correct any deficiency or to comply with existing regulations could result in the imposition of monetary penalties or prevent us from offering one of our products or services to some our clients and could have a substantial negative effect on our business and operations. Governmental laws and regulations may adversely affect us by making it more costly and burdensome to conduct our business or operations. Federal, state or foreign authorities could adopt new laws, rules or regulations relating to the financial services industry and the protection of consumer personal information belonging to financial institutions that affect our business. Those laws and regulations may address issues such as end-user privacy, pricing, content, characteristics, taxation and quality of services and products. Adoption of these laws, rules or regulations could render our business or operations more costly and burdensome and could require us to modify our current or future products or services. Risks Related to Our Industry We depend heavily on a single industry and any downturn in that industry would materially and adversely affect our business and operations. We sell our financial institution products and services almost exclusively to financial institutions, primarily community financial institutions. As a result, any events that adversely affect the industry in general and community financial institutions in particular, such as changed or expanded financial institution regulations, could adversely affect us and our operations. A downturn in this industry would have a substantial negative effect on our business and operations. Financial institutions are subject to industry consolidation, and we may lose clients with little notice, which could adversely affect our revenues. The financial institution industry is prone to consolidations that result from mergers and acquisitions. Other financial institutions that do not use our products and services may acquire our existing clients and then convert them to competing products and services. Most of our contracts provide for a charge to the client for early termination of the contract without cause, but these charges are insufficient to replace the recurring revenues that we would have received if the financial institution had continued as a client. The banking industry is highly regulated, and changes in banking regulations could negatively affect our business. Our financial institution clients are subject to the supervision of several federal, state and local government regulatory agencies, and we must continually ensure that our products and services work within the extensive and evolving regulatory requirements applicable to our financial institution clients. Regulation of financial institutions, especially with respect to accounts receivable services such as BusinessManager®, can indirectly affect our business. While the use of our products by financial institutions is either not subject to, or is currently in compliance with, banking regulations, a change in regulations or the creation of new regulations on financial institutions, including modifying a financial institution’s ability to offer products and services similar to ours, could prevent or lessen the use of our products and services by financial institutions, which would have a substantial negative effect on our business and operations. Current economic conditions could negatively affect demand for our products and services. General economic conditions affect the financial institutions that use our products and services. As a result, unfavorable economic conditions, such as losses by financial institutions from sub-prime mortgages and the resulting conditions in the credit markets, could negatively impact our sales to new clients, as well as upgrades or complementary sales to existing clients. In addition, the effects of the current economic conditions on financial institutions could result in a decrease in usage of our products and services by our financial institution clients and their customers. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks of Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile and any investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to be volatile in response to: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability; • changes in financial estimates by us or by a securities analyst who covers our stock; • publication of research reports about our company or industry; • conditions or trends in our industry; • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly-traded companies and, in particular, those whose businesses involve technology products and services for financial institutions; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological innovations, new services, service enhancements, significant contracts, acquisitions, commercial relationships, strategic partnerships, divestitures, technological innovations, new services or service enhancements; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us, our clients or our industry; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • general economic conditions. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. We can provide no assurance that future revenues and results of operations will not vary substantially. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. If we are required to restate or reissue our financial statements, the price of our stock may decline significantly. We believe that we have prepared our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the SEC’s regulations. We base these financial statements on our interpretation of those regulations, our use of estimates and assumptions and our internal controls. We may make faulty judgments, errors and mistakes regarding these matters. As a result of the complexity of these matters and our rate of growth, our financial statements may contain or may in the future contain mistakes or errors. If we are required to restate our financial statements, it is highly likely that the price of our stock will decline significantly. Further, any exchange on which our stock may then be traded may suspend trading of our stock, in which case it is highly likely that the market price of our stock will fall significantly when trading resumes. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, then our business and operating results could be harmed. Internal controls over financial reporting are processes designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. We have disclosed material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting in Item 9A — Controls and Procedures of this report. A failure to correct these material weaknesses may cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements and harm our business and operating results. Even after correcting these material weaknesses, our internal controls may not prevent all potential errors, because any control system, regardless of its design, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system will be achieved. Complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may strain our resources and distract management. We have complied with Section 404 beginning with this annual report for our 2007 fiscal year. We have incurred material costs and spent significant management time to comply with Section 404. As a result, management’s attention has been diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we have detected material weaknesses in our internal controls. This annual report on Form 10-K contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our 2007 fiscal year, including a statement that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective. In the course of our evaluation and testing of internal controls, we may identify other areas for improvement in the documentation, design and effectiveness of our internal controls, and these areas of improvement may be material. We may discover further material weaknesses in the course of our ongoing testing. Any disclosure of that type may result in a material decline in the trading price of our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. In the foreseeable future, we do not expect to declare or pay any cash or other dividends on our common stock. Our credit facility prohibits our paying cash dividends on our common stock, and we may enter into other borrowing arrangements in the future that restrict our ability to declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock. We may not be able to use the tax benefit from our operating losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had available net operating losses, or NOLs, of approximately $48.0 million that will expire beginning in 2027 if not used. We acquired approximately $37.6 million of these NOLs in connection with our 2001 merger with Towne Services. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code limits the amount of NOLs available to us in any given year. This limitation permits us to realize only a small portion of the potential tax benefit of the NOLs each year. We estimate that we will be able to realize approximately $6.6 million of the Towne Services NOLs, which we recorded as a $2.5 million deferred tax asset at December 31, 2007. We may be unable to use all of these NOLs before they expire. As such, a valuation allowance has been recorded against certain of the Company’s state NOL deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2007. Provisions in our organizational documents and under Tennessee law could delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our charter, bylaws and Tennessee law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to obtain control of us. For example, our charter provides for a staggered board of directors, restricts the ability of shareholders to call a special meeting and prohibits shareholder action by written consent. Our bylaws allow the board to expand its size and fill any vacancies without shareholder approval. In addition, the Tennessee Business Corporation Act contains the Tennessee Business Combination Act and the Tennessee Greenmail Act, which impose restrictions on shareholder actions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 