ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks which may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects, and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Since 2007, negative developments, in the housing market, including decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions, including the Bank. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. The impact on the Bank of the negative credit cycle is beginning to stabilize. However, the overall economic environment remains problematic with high unemployment rates, reduced general spending, and decreased lending by financial institutions to their cus tomers and to each other. Also, competition among depository institutions for deposits has continued to remain at heightened levels as compared to pre-recession times. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been significantly negatively affected as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We face increased regulation of our industry including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with Dodd-Frank. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 21 Table of Contents • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. • The Company’s commercial and residential borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in significant credit losses, increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. • The value of the portfolio of investment securities that we hold may be adversely affected by increasing interest rates and defaults by debtors. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect the Company’s ability to market its products and services. Recent changes in banking regulation may adversely affect our business. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes. Dodd-Frank significantly revises and expands the rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority of federal bank regulators. Dodd-Frank addresses many areas which may affect our operations and costs immediately or in the future. Among other provisions, Dodd-Frank: • imposes new capital requirements on bank holding companies and eliminates certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital; • expands the FDIC’s authority to raise insurance premiums and permanently raises the current standard deposit insurance limit to $250,000; • provides for the insurance of all noninterest-bearing and transaction accounts until January 1, 2013; • allows financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts; • authorizes nationwide interstate branching for banks; • limits interchange fees payable on debit card transactions; • establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and nonbank finance companies; • contains provisions that affect corporate governance and executive compensation; • restricts proprietary trading by financial institutions, their owning or sponsoring hedge and private equity funds, and regulates the derivatives activities of banks and their affiliates. Many aspects of Dodd-Frank are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us and the financial services industry more generally. We may be subject to more stringent capital requirements. Dodd-Frank phases out over a prescribed period of time certain trust preferred securities from Tier 1 capital and allows the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. In the case of certain trust preferred securities issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $15 billion or more as of December 31, 2009, these “regulatory capital deductions” are to be implemented incrementally over a period of three years beginning on January 13, 2013. Dodd-Frank also requires the federal banking agencies to establish minimum leverage and risk-based cap ital requirements that will apply to both insured banks and their holding companies. Implementing regulations must be issued within 18 months of July 21, 2010. In addition, internationally, the “Basel III” standards recently announced by the Basel Committee, if adopted, could lead to significantly higher capital requirements, higher capital charges and more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The standards would, among other things: • impose more restrictive eligibility requirements for Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; 22 Table of Contents • increase the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5 percent, net of regulatory deductions, and introduce a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5 percent of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7 percent; • increase the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5 percent inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; • increase the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5 percent inclusive of the capital conservation buffer; and • introduce a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5 percent of common equity or other fully absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth. Basel III also introduces a non-risk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3 percent, based on a measure of total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 until January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by United States regulators generally or how they will be applied to banks of our size. Implementation of these standards, or any other new regulations, may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends, or require us to reduce business levels or raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Increased deposit insurance costs may adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of a series of financial institution failures and other market developments, the deposit insurance fund, or Deposit Insurance Fund, of the FDIC has been significantly depleted and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of Dodd-Frank, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the Deposit Insurance Fund to meet its funding requirements, further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums may be required which we may be required to pay. We are generally una ble to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the United States banking system. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the U.S. Treasury established the TARP CPP to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liq uidity to the United States financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following the EESA and ARRA by the FRB, Congress, U.S. Treasury, the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the subprime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the temporary increase in FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. United States and international financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in California, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. As described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” the turmoil and downward economic trends in the past couple of years have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of these events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers realize th e impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio primarily in Northern and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate the Company’s exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the United States and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. 23 Table of Contents We may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $200.2 million provision for loan losses and charged off $225.2 million, gross of $22.7 million in recoveries. There has been a continued slowdown in the housing market in portions of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects the continuation of depressed prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to financial strain on home builders and suppliers. As of December 31, 2010, we had $3.9 billion and $3.1 billion in non - -covered and covered, respectively, commercial real estate, construction and land loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and the related residential and commercial cycles in particular could result in additional loan charge offs and provisions for loan losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and nonperformance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific t o us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole due to the turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and c ould lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may increase when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A further decline in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. A significant portion of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values de cline further, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Furthermore, a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of commercial real estate. Commercial real estate and multifamily loans typically involve large balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers. Since payments on these loans are often dependent on the successful operation or management of the properties, as well as the business and financial condition of the borrower, repayment of such loans may be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market, adverse economic conditions or changes in applicable government regulations. Borrowers’ inability to repay such loans may have an adverse affect on our business. 24 Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or “spread” between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume. We are subject to extensive government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which, in turn, may hamper our ability to increase our assets and earnings. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. The Company is also subject to supervision, regulation and investigation by the U.S. Treasury and the Office of the Special Inspector General for the TARP under the E ESA by virtue of its participation in the TARP CPP from December 5, 2008 to December 29, 2010. From time to time, various laws, rules and regulations are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to originate or sell loans or further restricting the amount of interest or other charges or fees earned on loans or other products. The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel II and Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II United States banks is uncertain. As a result of the deterioration during the past few years in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. In addition, the Basel III standards recently announced, if adopted, cou ld lead to substantially higher capital requirements and capital charges as well as more restrictive leverage and liquidity ratios. The new Basel III capital standards will be phased in from January 1, 2013 to January 1, 2019, and it is not yet known how these standards will be implemented by United States regulators, in general, or how they will be applied to community banks of our size. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage our recent and possible future growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. We conduct the majority of our operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive and increased competition in our primary market area may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. Our ability to increase our deposit base depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing, and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and w e cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. 25 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the regional banking industry, specially the West Coast market. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing, and technical personnel, and upon the continued contributions of our management and personn el. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our Chief Executive Officer and our President/Chief Operating Officer, and certain other employees. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Threats to the Company’s reputation can come from many sources, including unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation . State laws may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability for the Bank to pay dividends to East West is limited by California law and the Company’s ability to pay dividends on its outstanding stock is limited by Delaware law. For complete discussion and disclosure see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” presented elsewhere in this report. The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock, and there can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock. The terms of our outstanding Series A preferred stock have limitations on our ability to redeem or repurchase our common stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series A preferred stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A preferred stock, described below, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. For complete discussion and disclosure see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” presented elsewhere in this report. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the potential issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. In addition, to the extent shares of our Series A preferred stock are converted, or options to purchase common stock under our employee and director stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur additional dilution. Furthe r, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our stockholders. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: • actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; 26 Table of Contents • failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; • actions by institutional stockholders; • fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; • general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; • proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; • anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or • domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility during the past couple of years. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity-related securities, and other factors identified above in “Special Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” Market volatility during the past couple of years is unprecedented. Th e capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual stockholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. For example, our certificate of incorporation requires the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares of voting stock to approve certain business combinations. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, autho rizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Natural disasters and geopolitical events beyond our control could adversely affect us. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme weather conditions, hurricanes, floods, and other acts of nature and geopolitical events involving terrorism or military conflict could adversely affect our business operations and those of our customers and cause substantial damage and loss to real and personal property. These natural disasters and geopolitical events could impair our borrowers’ ability to service their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, erode the value of loan collateral, and result in an increase in the amount of our nonperforming loans and a higher level of nonperforming assets (including real estate ow ned), net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. Adverse conditions in Asia could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to Asia and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in Asia. Additionally, we also have four representative offices in China and one in Taipei, Taiwan, and one full-service branch in Hong Kong and two full-service branches in China. United States and global economic policies, military tensions, and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the Asian economies. Pandemics and other public health crises or concerns over the possibility of such crises could create economic and financial disruptions in the region. If economic conditions in Asia deteriorate , we could, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to Asia. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may adversely impact the recoverability of investments with or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in Asia and in China in particular, may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. 27 Table of Contents Our interest expense may increase following the repeal of the federal prohibition on payment of interest on demand deposits. The federal prohibition on the ability of financial institutions to pay interest on demand deposit accounts was repealed as part of Dodd-Frank. As a result, beginning on July 21, 2011, financial institutions could commence offering interest on demand deposits to compete for clients. We do not yet know what interest rates other institutions may offer. Our interest expense will increase and our net interest margin will decrease if the Bank begins offering interest on demand deposits to attract additional customers or maintain current customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and results of op erations. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, which could negatively affect our business and earnings. There are risks associated with expansion through acquisitions. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a bank acquired in a particular transaction, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction. Additional country- and region-specific risks are associated with transactions outside the United States, including in China. To the extent we issue capital stock in connection with additional transactions, these transactions an d related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. We may experience difficulty in managing the loan portfolios acquired through FDIC-assisted acquisitions, which are within the limits of the loss protection provided by the FDIC. The Bank entered into shared-loss agreements with the FDIC that covered, at fair value, some of United Commercial Bank’s and WFIB’s loans and other real estate owned, respectively. East West Bank will share in the losses, which begins with the first dollar of loss occurred, of the loan pools (including single-family residential mortgage loans, commercial loans, foreclosed loan collateral and other real estate owned) covered (“covered loans”) under the shared-loss agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the shared-loss agreements, the FDIC is obligated to re imburse East West Bank 80% of eligible losses with respect to covered loans. East West Bank has a corresponding obligation to reimburse the FDIC for 80%, of eligible recoveries with respect to covered loans. The shared-loss agreements for commercial and single-family residential mortgage loans is in effect for 5 years and 10 years, respectively, from the acquisition date and the loss recovery provisions are in effect for 8 years and 10 years, respectively, from the acquisition date. Ten years after acquisition date, East West Bank is required to pay the FDIC 50% of the excess, if any, of specific amounts stated in the original agreements for each acquisition respectively. Although we have substantial expertise in asset resolution, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to adequately manage the loan portfolio within the limits of the loss protection provided by the FDIC. Failure to comply with the requirements of the shared-loss agreements could result in loss of indemnification by the FDIC. Additionally, the Bank is subject to audits by th e FDIC, through its designated agent, under the terms of the shared-loss agreements. The required terms of the shared-loss agreements are extensive and failure to comply with any of the guidelines could result in a potential specific asset or group of assets losing indemnification. The number of delinquencies and defaults in residential mortgages have created a backlog in U.S. courts and may lead to an increase in the amount of legislative action that might restrict or delay our ability to foreclose and, therefore, delay the collection of payments for single-family residential loans. Collateral-based loans on which the Bank forecloses could be delayed by an extended foreclosure process, including delays resulting from a court backlog, local or national foreclosure moratoriums or other delays, and these delays could negatively impact our results of operations. Homeowner protection laws may also delay the initiation or completion of foreclosure proceed ings on specified types of residential mortgage loans. Any such limitations are likely to cause delayed or reduced collections. Significant restrictions on our ability to foreclose on loans, requirements that we forgo a portion of the amount otherwise due on a loan or requirements that we modify a significant number of original loan terms could negatively impact our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 