Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is exposed to various risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company’s business including the following: (i) failure to earn on a consistent basis an adequate return on invested capital; (ii) ability to retain and attract professional and technical employees; (iii) price competition from alternative fuels; (iv) volatility in the price and availability of natural gas; (v) uncertainty in the projected rate of growth of natural gas requirements in the Company’s service area; (vi) general economic conditions both locally and nationally; (vii) increases in interest rates; (viii) increased customer delinquencies and conservation efforts resulting from high fuel costs and/or colder weather; (ix) developments in electricity and natural gas deregulation and associated industry restructuring; (x) variations in winter heating degree-days from normal; (xi) changes in environmental requirements, pipeline operating requirements and cost of compliance; (xii) impact of potential increased regulatory oversight and compliance requirements costs due to financial, environmental, safety and system integrity laws and regulations; (xiii) failure to obtain timely rate relief for increasing operating or gas costs from regulatory authorities; (xiv) ability to raise debt or equity capital; (xv) impact of terrorism; (xvi) volatility in actuarially determined benefit costs: and (xvii) new accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which could change the accounting treatment for certain transactions. The most significant risk factors include the following: High natural gas prices: The combination of the damage to natural gas production and transportation facilities attributable to Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and demand for natural gas for electric generation resulted in a significant rise in natural gas prices during this past winter. Since then, the price of natural gas has declined; however, prices still remain higher than historical levels. If natural gas prices return to the higher levels experienced during 7 this past winter season, the Company may encounter a more than proportionate increase in bad debts and continued sales volume reductions attributable to conservation or customers converting to other energy or heating fuels. Warm winter weather: The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and relies upon the sale of natural gas primarily as a heating fuel. In addition, the Company’s non-gas margin rates are established based upon projected sales assuming weather utilizing a trailing 30-year period. In years where winter weather is warmer than the trailing 30-year period, customers use less natural gas as a heating fuel. This results in reduced sales and lower margins. The inclusion of a weather normalization adjustment (the “WNA”) factor as part of Roanoke Gas Company’s rate structure has partially mitigated the risk of a warm winter. The WNA factor operates so if the number of heating degree-days is less than approximately 6 percent above or below the 30-year average, no adjustments are made. If the number of heating degree-days is more than 6 percent below the 30-year average, the WNA factor allows the Company to add a surcharge to firm customer bills equal to the equivalent margin lost below the approximate 6 percent deficiency. Likewise, if the number of heating-degree days were more than 6 percent above the 30-year average, the Company would credit firm customer bills equal to the excess margin realized above the 6 percent heating degree-days. The period for these measurements extends from April through March with any adjustment to be made to customer bills in late spring. 