Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Whitney, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. Whitney must recognize and attempt to manage these risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and Whitney are: · credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; · market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; · liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; · compliance risk, which is the risk of failure to comply with requirements imposed by regulators; · reputation risk, which is the risk that negative perceptions of a business will adversely affect operations and financial performance; · strategic risk, which is the risk that strategic goals, business strategies developed and resources deployed to achieve those goals will negatively impact earnings and capital; and · operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although Whitney generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of Whitney’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Whitney's overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that Whitney currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect Whitney’s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The continued sluggish economic recovery, both nationally and in our markets, could have an adverse effect on Whitney’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The economic environment, which showed some initial signs of improvement in early 2010, has since demonstrated that the economic recovery may be slow and protracted due mainly to persistently high unemployment, low though improving consumer confidence and a soft housing market. An extended period of slow recovery in the broader economy and, specifically, in our coastal markets after the recent deep recession could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in Whitney’s market area. These conditions could, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers, prompt Whitney to tighten its underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in Whitney’s customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand for real estate in certain of our markets. Legislative and regulatory actions taken in response to these conditions could impose additional restrictions and requirements on Whitney and others in the financial industry. The impact of a continued slow economic recovery on Whitney’s financial results could include continued high levels of classified and criticized credits, provisions for credit losses and elevated expenses associated with loan collection efforts, difficulties in disposing of nonperforming assets, the possible impairment of certain intangible or deferred tax assets, the need to replace core deposits with higher-cost sources of funds, and an inability to produce loan growth or overall growth in earning assets. Noninterest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. These factors could have an adverse effect on Whitney’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. - 19 - Whitney’s business is highly regulated. Our compliance with existing and proposed banking legislation and regulation, including our compliance with regulatory and supervisory actions, could adversely limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our business, operating flexibility and financial condition. As a result of the current difficult operating environment and the Company’s recent operating losses, the Bank’s primary regulator in 2009 required the Bank to implement plans to (i) maintain regulatory capital at a level sufficient to meet specific minimum regulatory capital ratios set by the regulator; (ii) make several improvements to the Bank’s oversight of its lending operations; and (iii) assess the adequacy of the Bank’s allowance for loan and lease losses and improve related policies and procedures. The Bank’s specified minimum regulatory capital ratios are a leverage ratio of 8%, a Tier 1 Capital ratio of 9%, and a Total Capital ratio of 12%. As of December 31, 2010, the Bank’s regulatory ratios exceeded all three of these minimum ratios with an 8.21% leverage ratio, a 10.37% Tier 1 Capital ratio, and a 13.33% Total Capital ratio. In addition to meeting these capital requirements, we believe that the Bank has made progress in meeting its other commitments, including (i) the adoption of amendments to various credit policies to provide for (a) the development of a written action plan for criticized assets of $1 million or greater and (b) the timely and accurate risk ratings of loans and timely placement of loans on nonaccrual; (ii) the establishment of training programs for lending officers to ensure completion of written action plans for criticized assets and accurate risk ratings of loans and the proper financial analysis of borrowers and guarantors; and (iii) completion of an assessment of and enhancement to the methodology for determining its allowance for loan losses. The Company’s primary regulator has also required us to take certain actions in addition to the foregoing, which include (i) obtaining regulatory approval prior to repurchasing our common stock, incurring or guaranteeing additional debt or increasing our cash dividends, (ii) providing a plan to strengthen risk management reporting and practices and (iii) providing a capital plan to maintain a sufficient capital position and updating the plan quarterly with capital projections and stress tests. We continue to work diligently to ensure full compliance with the requirements; however, if the Company or the Bank are unable to implement these plans in a timely manner and otherwise meet the commitments outlined above or if we fail to adequately resolve any other matters that any of our regulators may require us to address in the future, we could become subject to more stringent supervisory actions, up to and including a cease and desist order. On February 19, 2010, Whitney announced that the Bank consented and agreed to the issuance of an order by the OCC addressing certain compliance matters relating to BSA and anti-money laundering items. The Order requires the Bank, among other things: (i) to establish a compliance committee to monitor and coordinate compliance with the Order within 30 days and to provide a written report to the OCC; (ii) to engage a consultant to assist the Board of Directors in reviewing the Bank’s BSA compliance personnel within 90 days; (iii) to develop, implement and ensure adherence to a comprehensive written program of policies and procedures that provide for BSA compliance within 150 days; (iv) to develop and implement a written, institution-wide and on-going BSA risk assessment to accurately identify risks within 150 days; and (v) for the consultant engaged by the Board of Directors to conduct a review of account and transaction activity during the calendar year 2008 for accounts that typically pose a greater than normal BSA risk. The written plan for this review was to be submitted within 90 days of the Order, and the review was to be concluded within 120 days of obtaining no supervisory objections to the written plan from the Assistant Deputy Comptroller of the OCC. We have requested an extension of time for our consultant to complete and submit its report of the 2008 review. The OCC agreed to the extension and we expect that our consultant will submit its report to the OCC by the deadline. Any material failure to comply with the provisions of the Order or other OCC communications could result in further enforcement actions by the OCC. Although the Bank completed the first four items listed above within the timeframe of the Order, a significant component of an effective BSA/AML program is a fully automated suspicious activity account monitoring system. Given the size and complexity of the Bank, coupled with the high volumes of wire transfer activity, the Bank's current BSA/AML transaction monitoring software system will require significant enhancements and may warrant the Bank converting to a more robust and sophisticated BSA/AML transaction monitoring software system. Management has engaged experienced independed consultants to review the potential for successful upgrades to our current software system and to assist in the selection of a more appropriate system, if warranted. Whiney will need a fully functioning automated BSA transaction monitoring software application to satisfy our regulator prior to termination of the Order. - 20 - As a result of the supervisory actions discussed above, we are subject to additional regulatory approval processes for certain activities such as building new branches. If we are unable to resolve these regulatory issues on a timely basis, we could become subject to significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop new business. In addition, we could be required by our regulators to dispose of certain assets or liabilities within a prescribed period of time, raise additional capital in the future or restrict or reduce our dividends. The terms of any such action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility and financial condition. Our regulators periodically conduct examinations of Whitney’s business and have authority to issue formal enforcement actions as a result of their review of our operations. Whitney’s failure to comply with any supervisory actions to which it is or becomes subject to as a result of such examinations may adversely affect our operations and financial condition. The Federal Reserve and the OCC periodically conduct examinations of Whitney’s business, including for compliance with laws and regulations. If, as a result of an examination or otherwise, the Federal Reserve and/or the OCC were to determine that the financial condition, capital resources, asset quality, asset concentrations, earnings prospects, management, liquidity, sensitivity to market risk, or other aspects of any of Whitney’s operations had become unsatisfactory, or that Whitney or its management were in violation of any law, regulation or guideline in effect from time to time, the regulators could take a number of different remedial actions as they deem appropriate. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings, but formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. These actions include the power to enjoin “unsafe or unsound” practices, to require affirmative actions to correct any conditions resulting from any violation or practice, to issue an administrative order that can be judicially enforced, to direct an increase in capital, to impose limits on activities such as lending, deposit taking, acquisitions, branching or other growth, to change the composition of Whitney’s concentrations in portfolio or balance sheet assets, to assess civil monetary penalties against the officers or directors or to remove officers and directors. Failure to adhere to the requirements of any action, once issued, can result in more severe penalties. Generally, these enforcement actions can be lifted only after a subsequent examination substantiates complete correction of the underlying issues. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act could increase our regulatory compliance burden and associated costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) was signed into law. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Act directs applicable regulatory authorities to promulgate regulations implementing its provisions, and its effect on the Company and on the financial services industry as a whole will be clarified as those regulations are issued. The Dodd-Frank Act addresses a number of issues including capital requirements, compliance and risk management, debit card overdraft fees, healthcare, incentive compensation, expanded disclosures and corporate governance. The Act establishes a new, independent Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (CFPB) which will have broad rulemaking, supervisory and enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services, including deposit products, residential mortgages, home-equity loans and credit cards. States will be permitted to adopt stricter consumer protection laws and can enforce consumer protection rules issued by the Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act will likely increase our regulatory compliance burden and may have a material adverse effect on us, including increasing the costs associated with our regulatory examinations and compliance measures. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the resulting regulations promulgated by federal agencies, may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes to comply with new laws and regulations. For additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation.” - 21 - The short-term and long-term impact of the new Basel III capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules for non-Basel U.S. banks is uncertain. On December 16, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, adopted the final text of an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. The agreement calls for national jurisdictions to implement the new requirements beginning January 1, 2013. When implemented by U.S. banking authorities, which have expressed support for the new capital standards, we expect Basel III will, when implemented, increase the minimum capital requirements of all banking institutions. For a more detailed description of Basel III, see “Item 1. Business - Supervision and Regulation.” Whitney’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Whitney maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. The allowance represents management’s best estimate of probable loan losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires Whitney to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic and other conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional criticized and classified loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional classified loans and loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased nonperforming assets in Whitney’s loan portfolio and increased provision for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. In particular, conditions in Whitney’s Florida and Alabama residential-related real estate markets led to declines in credit quality since the end of 2007. More recently, we have seen some deterioration in our commercial real estate loan portfolio across all of our markets, particularly in Texas. Commercial real estate loans, which include residential-related construction and land development loans, comprised $2.1 billion or 29% of Whitney’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010. The continued deterioration in market conditions could lead to additional loss provisions with respect to our real estate loan portfolios and the valuation of real estate we have obtained through foreclosure as well as to further additions to nonperforming real estate loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of nonperforming loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net charge-offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our nonperforming assets and related increases in our provision for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. - 22 - Additional losses may result in a valuation allowance to deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2010, Whitney had approximately $150 million in net deferred tax assets. Applicable banking regulations limit the inclusion of these deferred tax assets when calculating Whitney’s Tier 1 capital to the extent these assets could be realized based on the ability to offset any taxable income during the two previous years as well as future projected earnings within one year. Based on these limitations, Whitney currently excludes the majority of the deferred tax assets for the calculation of Tier 1 capital. Unless we anticipate generating sufficient taxable income in the future, we may be unable to include future increases in deferred tax assets in our Tier 1 capital which could significantly reduce our regulatory capital ratios. Additionally, our deferred tax assets are subject to an evaluation of whether it is more likely than not that they will be realized for financial statement purposes. In making such judgments, significant weight is given to evidence that can be objectively verified. As of December 31, 2010, Whitney had incurred a three-year cumulative taxable loss and had net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. This is considered significant negative evidence when assessing the realizability of a deferred tax asset. Although realization is not assured, management believes the recorded deferred tax assets are fully recoverable based on the Company’s strong historical taxable income and current forecasts for taxable income for the periods through which losses may be carried forward that are sufficient to realize the net deferred tax asset. The amount of future taxable income required to support the deferred tax asset in the carry forward period, which is currently 20 years, is approximately $515 million. If operating losses continue in future periods, the deferred tax asset will increase. If Whitney is unable to generate, or is unable to demonstrate that it can generate, sufficient taxable income in the near future, then the Company may not be able to conclude it is more likely than not that the benefits of the deferred tax assets will be fully realized and may be required to recognize a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets with a corresponding increase to income tax expense. Whitney’s ability to utilize its deferred tax assets to offset future taxable income may be significantly limited if Whitney experiences an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code). In general, an ownership change will occur if there is a cumulative change in Whitney’s ownership by “5% shareholders” (as defined in the Code) that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. Further reductions in the Company’s or the Bank’s credit ratings could reduce access to funding sources in the credit and capital markets and increase funding costs. Numerous rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to the debt of the Company and the Bank. The agencies’ ratings are based on a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. In addition to factors specific to the financial strength and performance of the Company and the Bank, the rating agencies also consider conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. During 2009, several rating agencies downgraded select ratings for both the Company and the Bank, which was also the case for a number of other financial services industry entities. On July 29, 2010, Standard & Poor’s issued a downgrade of both the Company’s and the Bank’s counterparty credit to below investment grade and placed us on negative outlook for further downgrades. Later in 2010, two other rating agencies announced that they had placed certain ratings for both the Company and the Bank under review for possible downgrades. Following the announcement of the proposed merger with Hancock, three agencies reported that they were reviewing both the Company’s and the Bank’s ratings for possible upgrade, although they indicated that this positive rating outlook was contingent on the completion of the merger. In light of the difficulties confronting the financial services industry generally, and the Company and the Bank specifically, including, among others, the continued stress on residential and commercial real estate markets, the Company and the Bank could receive further downgrades. Further rating reductions by one or more rating agencies could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost and other terms of obtaining funding. - 23 - Whitney has credit exposure in the oil and gas industry. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had approximately $712 million in loans to borrowers in the oil and gas industry, representing approximately 10% of its total loans outstanding as of that date. The majority of the Bank’s customer base in this industry provides transportation and other services and products to support exploration and production activities. If there is a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry generally, the cash flows of Whitney’s customers’ in this industry would be adversely impacted. This in turn could impair their ability to service their debt to the Bank with adverse consequences to the Company’s earnings. In late April 2010, the explosion and collapse of the BP Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the Gulf of Mexico off the coast of Louisiana caused a major oil leak that has now been fully contained. The U.S. Government initially imposed a moratorium on deepwater rigs and has issued certain new safety regulations for all offshore drilling operations. The U.S. Congress is considering legislation that could impact the operations of offshore drillers. The moratorium was officially lifted on October 12, 2010, and industry participants are taking steps to comply with the new regulations. Whitney management and bankers continue to review credits and talk to both customers and industry experts to determine the potential impact of the spill and the regulatory and legislative responses on the Company’s oil and gas loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2010, no oil and gas credit relationships had been adversely classified as a result of the oil spill; nevertheless, legislative or regulatory actions that limit new or existing offshore exploration and production activities on a prolonged basis or substantially impact the cost of offshore drilling operations could negatively impact our customers in the oil and gas industry and the general economy of Whitney’s market area. The composition of Whitney’s loan portfolio could increase the volatility of its credit quality metrics and provisions for credit losses. Whitney’s loan portfolio contains individual relationships, primarily with commercial customers, with outstanding balances that are relatively large in relation to its asset size. Changes in the credit quality of one or a few of these relationships could lead to increased volatility in the Company’s reported totals of loans with above-normal credit risk and in its provisions for credit losses over time. Impairment of goodwill associated with acquisitions would result in a charge to earnings. Goodwill is assessed for impairment both annually and when events or circumstances occur that make it more likely than not that impairment has occurred. The impairment test compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. No impairment was indicated when the annual test was performed on September 30, 2010. Given the economic environment and potential for volatility in the fair value estimate, management has been updating the impairment test for goodwill quarterly throughout 2009 and 2010. No indication of goodwill impairment was identified in these interim tests; however, it is possible that a noncash goodwill impairment charge may be required in the future. Such a charge could result in a material reduction in earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired, but an impairment charge would not have an effect on tangible common equity or regulatory capital. Whitney’s ability to pay dividends is subject to certain regulatory considerations. Whitney must currently obtain regulatory approval before increasing the common dividend rate above the current quarterly level of $.01 per share and must provide prior notice to its primary regulator in advance of declaring dividends on either its common on preferred stock. Regulatory policy statements provide that generally bank holding companies should only pay dividends out of current operating earnings and the level of dividends, if any, must be consistent with current and expected capital requirements. There are also various regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company. Dividends received from the Bank have traditionally been Whitney’s principal source of cash flow. Because of recent losses, the Bank currently has no capacity to declare dividends to the Company without prior regulatory approval. For additional information regarding the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Company and Bank, see “Supervision and Regulation” under Item 1. - 24 - Whitney’s continued participation in the Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, compete for new business opportunities and retain high performing employees. Several financial institutions which participated in the CPP received approval from the Treasury to exit the program during 2009 and 2010. These institutions have, or are in the process of, repurchasing the preferred stock and repurchasing or auctioning the warrant issued to the Treasury as part of the CPP. Whitney has not yet requested approval to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant from the Treasury. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the Treasury. Subject to the receipt of requisite regulatory approvals, Hancock intends to redeem or repurchase the Series A Preferred Stock and the Warrant held by Treasury at the completion of the merger, although there can be no certainty or guarantee as to the timing or occurrence of such redemption or repurchase. Our customers, employees, counterparties in our current and future business relationships, and the media may draw negative implications regarding the strength of Whitney as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business. In addition, because we have not yet repurchased the Treasury’s CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. Financial institutions which have repurchased the Treasury’s CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the Treasury’s investment to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. Changes in the cost and availability of funding due to changes in the deposit market and credit market, or the way in which we are perceived in such markets, may adversely affect financial results. In general, the amount, type and cost of funding, including from other financial institutions, the capital markets and deposits, directly impacts our costs in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. A number of factors could make funding more difficult, more expensive or possibly unavailable on any terms. These factors include, but are not limited to, further reductions in our credit ratings, financial results and losses, changes within our organization, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, disruptions in the capital markets, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counterparty availability, regulatory actions, changes affecting our assets, the corporate and regulatory structure, interest rate fluctuations, general economic conditions and the legal, regulatory, accounting and tax environments governing our funding transactions. Also, we compete for funding with other banks and similar companies, many of which are substantially larger, and have more capital and other resources than we do. In addition, as some of these competitors consolidate with other financial institutions, these advantages may increase. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect Whitney. Whitney’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Whitney’s profitability depends in substantial part on net interest income and on its ability to manage interest rate risk. Whitney’s net interest income represented more than 75% of total revenues in each of the last five years. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other earning assets, and interest owed on deposits and borrowings. Numerous and often interrelated factors influence Whitney’s ability to maintain and grow net interest income, and a number of these factors are addressed in Management’s - 25 - Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. One of the most important factors is changes in market interest rates and in the relationship between these rates for different financial instruments and products and at different maturities. Such changes are generally outside the control of management and cannot be predicted with certainty. Although management applies significant resources to anticipating these changes and to developing and executing strategies for operating in an environment of change, they cannot eliminate the possibility that interest rate risk will negatively affect the Company’s net interest income and lead to earnings volatility. The Company’s financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to Whitney’s reputation. Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, the announced merger with Hancock, disclosure, existing or future litigation, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators, community organizations or others in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. Pending litigation against Whitney and the current members of Whitney’s Board of Directors could result in an injunction preventing completion of the merger with Hancock or the payment of damages in the event the merger is completed. On January 7, 2011, a putative shareholder class action lawsuit, De LaPouyade v. Whitney Holding Corporation, et al., Case No. 11-189, was filed in the Civil District Court for the Parish of Orleans of the State of Louisiana against Whitney and members of Whitney’s board of directors asserting that the directors breached their fiduciary duties and/or violated Louisiana state law and that Whitney aided and abetted those alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. Among other relief, the plaintiff seeks to enjoin the merger. On February 17, 2011, a complaint in intervention was filed by the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System (“MPERS”) in the De LaPouyade case. The MPERS complaint is substantially identical to and seeks to join in the De LaPouyade complaint. On February 7, 2011, another putative shareholder class action lawsuit, Realistic Partners v. Whitney Holding Corporation, et al., Case No. 2:11-cv-00256, was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana against Whitney, members of Whitney’s board of directors, and Hancock asserting violations of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, breach of fiduciary duty under Louisiana state law, and aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty. Among other relief, the plaintiff seeks to enjoin the merger. On February 24, 2011, the plaintiff moved for class certification. One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is that no judgment, decree, injunction or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction is in effect that prohibits the completion of the merger. If the plaintiff is successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the defendants from completing the merger, then such injunction may prevent the merger from becoming effective, or from becoming effective within the expected time frame. If completion of the merger is prevented or delayed, it could result in substantial costs to Whitney. In addition, Whitney could incur costs associated with the indemnification of Whitney’s directors and officers. We rely on our systems and employees, and any errors or fraud could materially adversely affect our operations. Whitney is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and recordkeeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. The Bank’s business is dependent on its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We have committed to make significant investments of time and resources into changing and improving our core systems and processes. We refer to this program internally as our Project Genesis program. If the operations of, or any of the - 26 - changes to, our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems, including our Project Genesis program, fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We have also made significant investments in BSA compliance technologies. If we are unable to successfully implement these technologies, we could be subject to additional expenses and regulatory actions. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business also could be sources of operational risk to us due to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our business or cause potential liability to customers, reputation damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. After announcing our pending merger with Hancock, we elected to place a pause on any further activity associated with completing the systems conversions and process changes contemplated by Project Genesis. When we implemented this pause, we terminated contract workers and returned Whitney employees dedicated to Project Genesis to their home business units. This pause will permit Hancock to evaluate Project Genesis and its new software applications. Hancock’s banking subsidiaries use the same core bank software system that the Bank currently uses. The Project Genesis pause has created additional operational risk, particularly if the merger with Hancock is not completed, because we would have to either re-start Project Genesis (and reassemble and rehire team members), remain in our current pre-Project Genesis technology environment, or investigate other alternatives. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is a risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. The senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to Whitney’s common shareholders and its earnings per share. On December 19, 2008, the Company issued senior preferred stock (Series A preferred stock) to the Treasury in an aggregate amount of $300 million, along with a warrant for 2,631,579 shares of common stock. As long as shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock issued under the CPP are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the Company’s common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, the Company is not permitted to pay cash dividends in excess of $.31 per share per quarter on its common stock for three years from the preferred stock issue date without the Treasury’s consent, unless Treasury no longer owns the preferred stock. The dividends declared on shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and the Company’s earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to the Company’s earnings per share. In the event Hancock does not redeem the Series A Preferred Stock at closing, the merger agreement with Hancock provides that each outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock will be converted into the right to receive one share of Hancock preferred stock with substantially the same rights, powers and preferences as the Series A Preferred Stock. The Warrant will be converted into a warrant to purchase Hancock common stock, subject to appropriate adjustments to reflect the exchange ratio of .418. There can be no assurance when the Series A preferred stock can be redeemed and the Warrant can be repurchased. Subject to consultation with the Company’s banking regulators, Whitney intends to repurchase the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant issued to the Treasury when we believe the credit metrics in our loan portfolio have improved for the long-term and the overall economy has rebounded. However, there can be no assurance when the - 27 - Series A preferred stock and the Warrant can be repurchased, if at all. Until such time as the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant are repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, require Whitney to obtain regulatory approval to repurchase or redeem common stock or our other preferred stock or increase the dividends on the Company’s common stock over $.31 per share, except in limited circumstances. Further, Whitney’s continued participation in the CPP subjects us to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These current and any future oversight and legal requirements and implementing standards under the CPP may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on CPP participants such as Whitney. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of Whitney’s common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that the Company has issued to the Treasury is senior to its shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of the Company’s common stock. The restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to common shareholders are discussed above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company’s common stock unless the Company has paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of the Company’s common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to Whitney’s board of directors. In the event that the Company fails to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting the Company’s board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for this purpose) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except in connection with the election of directors to the Company’s board of directors as discussed immediately above and as otherwise required by law, holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or Whitney’s amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than the Company and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders the Series A preferred stock. Whitney may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain the Company’s or the Bank’s capital at desired or regulatorily-required levels or to replace existing capital such as the Series A preferred stock, the Company may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. The Company may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. The Company could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. - 28 - Whitney’s market area is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms, which may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Most of Whitney’s market area lies within the coastal region of the five states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. This is a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. The two strong hurricanes that struck in 2005 had a major impact on the greater New Orleans area, southwest Louisiana and the Mississippi coast, with lesser impacts on coastal Alabama and the western panhandle of Florida. Within its broader market area, the greater New Orleans area is home to branches and relationship officers that service approximately 40% of the Bank’s total loans and 50% of total deposits at December 31, 2010. The 2005 storms caused widespread property damage, required temporary or permanent relocations of a large number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. Although the Bank was able to operate successfully in the aftermath of these storms, management carefully studied its risk posture and has taken a number of steps to reduce the Bank’s exposure to future natural disasters and make its disaster recovery plans and operating arrangements more resilient. Details of the storms’ impact on Whitney, both operationally and with respect to credit risk and liquidity, has been chronicled in Item 7 of the Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Whitney cannot predict the extent to which future storms may impact its exposure to credit risk, operational risk or liquidity risk. Risk Factors Related to Pending Merger with Hancock Whitney cannot be sure of the market value of the merger consideration that Whitney shareholders will receive as a result of the announced merger with Hancock. Upon completion of the merger, each share of Whitney common stock will be converted into merger consideration consisting of .418 of a share of Hancock common stock. The market value of the merger consideration will vary from the closing price of Hancock common stock on the date we announced the merger, on the date that the proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to Whitney shareholders, on the date of the special meeting of the Whitney shareholders and on the date we complete the merger and thereafter. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our respective businesses, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any change in the market price of Hancock common stock prior to completion of the merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that Whitney shareholders will receive upon completion of the merger, and there will be no adjustment to the merger consideration for changes in the market price of either shares of Hancock common stock or shares of Whitney common stock. We may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on the resulting institution’s ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the businesses of Hancock and Whitney. However, to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, the businesses of Hancock and Whitney must be successfully combined. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Whitney has operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Each of Whitney’s executive officers, and most of Whitney’s senior management, has an employment contract that provides severance benefits in the event of a “qualified termination” in connection with a change in control. The integration process could result in “qualified terminations,” which could trigger severance payments that could result in significant expense and in the loss of experienced officers. Integration efforts between the two companies will also divert management attention and resources and could result in deposit attrition or other adverse operational results. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on Whitney during the pre-merger transition period and on the combined company following the merger. - 29 - The merger is subject to the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. Before the merger may be completed, various approvals or consents must be obtained from the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC, and various domestic and foreign banking, securities, antitrust, and other regulatory authorities. These government entities may impose conditions on the completion of the merger or require changes to the terms of the merger. Such conditions or changes could have the effect of delaying completion of the merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger, any of which might have an adverse effect on the combined company following the merger. If the merger is not completed, Whitney will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. Whitney has incurred substantial expenses in connection with the negotiation and completion of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. If the merger is not completed, Whitney would have to recognize these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the merger. The merger is subject to certain closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, will result in the merger not being completed, which may cause the market price of Whitney common stock to decline. The merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals and approvals of the Hancock and Whitney shareholders. If any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, to the extent permitted by law, the merger will not be completed. In addition, Hancock and Whitney may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances even if the merger is approved by Whitney and Hancock shareholders, including but not limited to if the merger has not been completed on or before September 30, 2011 or if a tender or exchange offer for 20% or more of the outstanding shares of either party’s common stock is commenced and such party’s board of directors recommends that its shareholders tender their shares or otherwise fails to recommend that their shareholders reject such offering within a 10-business day period. If Hancock and Whitney do not complete the merger, the market price of Whitney common stock may decline to the extent that the current market prices of those shares reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed. In addition, neither company would realize any of the expected benefits of having completed the merger. If the merger is not completed, additional risks could materialize, which could materially and adversely affect the business, financial results, financial condition and stock price of Whitney. The market price of Hancock common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the shares of Whitney or Hancock. The businesses of Hancock and Whitney differ in important respects and, accordingly, the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of the combined company’s shares of common stock may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting the independent results of operations of Hancock and Whitney. The merger agreement limits Whitney’s ability to pursue an alternative acquisition proposal and requires Whitney to pay a termination fee of $50 million under limited circumstances relating to alternative acquisition proposals. The merger agreement prohibits Hancock and Whitney from soliciting, initiating, endorsing or knowingly encouraging or facilitating certain alternative acquisition proposals with any third party, subject to exceptions set forth in the merger agreement. The merger agreement also provides for the payment by Hancock or Whitney of a termination fee in the amount of $50 million in the event that the other party terminates the merger agreement for certain reasons. These provisions might discourage a potential competing acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Whitney from considering or proposing such an acquisition. - 30 - Whitney has not obtained an updated fairness opinion from J.P. Morgan reflecting changes in circumstances that may have occurred since the signing of the merger agreement. Whitney has not obtained an updated opinion from J.P. Morgan, which is Whitney’s financial advisor, regarding the fairness, from a financial point of view, of the consideration to be paid in connection with the merger. Changes in the operations and prospects of Hancock or Whitney, general market and economic conditions and other factors that may be beyond the control of Hancock and Whitney, and on which the fairness opinion was based, may have altered the value of Hancock or Whitney or the prices of shares of Hancock common stock and shares of Whitney common stock, or may alter such values and prices by the time the merger is completed. Certain of Whitney’s directors and executive officers have interests in the merger that may differ from the interests of Whitney’s shareholders including, if the merger is completed, the receipt of financial and other benefits. Whitney’s executive officers and directors have interests in the merger that are in addition to, and may be different from, the interests of Whitney shareholders generally. These interests include acceleration of vesting and payouts of their Whitney equity compensation awards, the right to potentially receive cash severance payments and other benefits under executive change in control agreements and accelerated payouts of deferred compensation balances. The shares of Hancock common stock to be received by Whitney shareholders as a result of the merger will have different rights from the shares of Whitney common stock. Upon completion of the merger, Whitney shareholders will become Hancock shareholders and their rights as shareholders will be governed by the Hancock articles of incorporation and the Hancock bylaws. The rights associated with Whitney common stock are different from the rights associated with Hancock common stock. - 31 - Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 