Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock and warrants involves a high degree of risk. You should consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding to invest in our common stock or warrants. The following factors affect our business, our intellectual property, the industry in which we operate and our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or which we currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on our business. If any of the matters discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our securities. 8 Risks Related to Our Business We will be required to raise significant additional capital, or secure a development partner, in the near-term, and our ability to obtain funding is uncertain. If sufficient capital is not available, we may not be able to continue our operations as proposed (including any Phase IIb clinical trial initiated or ongoing for Tcelna), which may require us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations, cease operations or seek relief under applicable bankruptcy laws. As of December 31, 2012, we had cash and cash equivalents of $592,004. During 2012, we closed a private offering in July 2012 consisting of convertible secured notes and warrants to purchase common stock which generated approximately $4.1 million in gross proceeds (of which $500,000 is held in a controlled account, and $500,000 was released to us in January 2013). These convertible secured notes are due July 25, 2014, and to date, notes in the aggregate principal amount of $900,000 have been converted into shares of Series A convertible preferred stock, which in turn, have been converted into an aggregate of 288,229 shares of common stock. From November 2012 through January 2013, we sold an aggregate of 390,000 shares of our common stock to Lincoln Park Capital Fund, LLC (“Lincoln Park”) for gross proceeds of $523,709 pursuant to our $1.5 million purchase agreement with Lincoln Park. To date in 2013, we closed a private offering of unsecured convertible promissory notes and warrants to purchase common stock in January 2013 which generated $650,000 in gross proceeds. Upon receipt of the upfront payment from Merck in February 2013, we repaid $550,000 principal amount plus accrued interest of the January 2013 notes and converted the remaining $100,000 principal amount into shares of common stock pursuant to the investor’s election to convert into equity. In February 2013, we sold an aggregate of 167,618 shares of our common stock pursuant to a sales agreement executed on September 6, 2012 with Brinson Patrick Securities Corporation acting as sales agent under an “at-the-market” program, for gross proceeds of $536,417. On February 4, 2013, we entered into an Option and License Agreement with Merck pursuant to which we granted the Option to Merck to acquire an exclusive, worldwide (excluding Japan) license to our Tcelna program for the treatment of MS in consideration for an upfront payment of $5 million. On February 11, 2013, we closed on an offering of 1,083,334 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock for gross proceeds of $3,250,002. As part of this offering, we agreed not to sell shares pursuant to our purchase agreements with Lincoln Park or under our “at-the-market” program for a period of 120 days following the offering. Our burn rate during 2012, inclusive of the cost of preparations to commence the Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in patients with SPMS, was approximately $830,000 per month. Significant activities in the conduct of the clinical trial will result in substantial increases in our monthly cash burn during 2013. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to support our current clinical trial activities into the fourth quarter of 2013. However, the Phase IIb clinical study in North America of Tcelna is expected to complete enrollment of 180 patients by late 2013 or early 2014, with the resulting topline data expected to be available in the first half of 2016. The estimated future costs of the study, as well as the ongoing expenses of our operations through the expected completion date of the study and the release of top line data, are estimated to be between $33-35 million as of January 1, 2013. Our existing resources are not adequate to permit us to complete such study or the majority of it. We will need to secure significant additional resources to continue and complete the trial and support our operations during the pendency of the trial. Given our need for substantial amounts of capital to continue and complete the Phase IIb clinical study for Tcelna in SPMS, we intend to continue to explore potential opportunities and alternatives to obtain the significant additional resources that will be necessary to continue and complete the Phase IIb study and to support our operations during the pendency of such study. These opportunities and alternatives may include one or more additional financing transactions. There can be no assurance that any such financings can be consummated on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funding for operations in the immediate future, we will be forced to suspend or terminate our current ongoing clinical trial for Tcelna, which may require us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations, cease operations or seek relief under applicable bankruptcy laws. Assuming we are able to achieve financing which is sufficient to support the Phase IIb study of Tcelna in SPMS and to support our operations during the pendency of such study, we are also exploring a pivotal Phase III clinical study of Tcelna in RRMS. Any such study of Tcelna in RRMS would also depend upon the availability of sufficient resources. Other than the $1.5 million purchase agreement and the $15.0 million purchase agreement we entered into with Lincoln Park on November 5, 2012 and November 2, 2012, respectively, each of which is subject to certain limitations and conditions, we have no sources of debt or equity capital committed for funding and we must rely upon best efforts third-party debt or equity funding. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any funding effort. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: ● our ability to establish, enforce and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; ● the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for capital needs in 2013 and beyond as well as for the clinical study of Tcelna; ● scientific progress in our research and development programs; ● the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; 9 ● our progress with preclinical development and clinical trials; ● the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; ● the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and ● the number and type of product candidates that we pursue. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities (including pursuant to the $1.5 million purchase agreement and the $15.0 million purchase agreement with Lincoln Park), stockholders may experience substantial dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may impede our ability to operate our business. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. There is no assurance that our capital raising efforts will be able to attract the capital needed to execute on our business plan and sustain our operations. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, we may not be able to continue or complete the Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in SPMS or otherwise continue our operations as proposed, which may require us to modify our business plan or curtail various aspects of our operations. If we are unable to maintain an adequate level of capital, it may be necessary to cease operations or seek relief under applicable bankruptcy laws. In such event, our stockholders may lose a portion or even all of their investment. Funding from our purchase agreements with Lincoln Park may be limited or be insufficient to fund our operations or to implement our strategy. As part of our February 2013 common stock and warrant offering, we agreed not to sell shares to Lincoln Park for a period of 120 days following that offering. Under our purchase agreements with Lincoln Park, we may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $1.5 million of shares of common stock subject to certain limitations over a 30-month period, and, upon effectiveness of a registration statement for resale of the applicable shares under the $15.0 million purchase agreement, and subject to other conditions, we also may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $15.0 million of our shares of common stock over a 30-month period. However, in connection with our February 2013 common stock and warrant offering, we agreed not to sell shares under the purchase agreements with Lincoln Park for a period of 120 days after the offering. From November 2012 through January 2013, we sold an aggregate of 390,000 shares to Lincoln Park pursuant to the $1.5 million purchase agreement, and we issued an aggregate of 56,507 initial commitment shares and 3,585 additional commitment shares in connection therewith. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive any or all of the additional funds from Lincoln Park because the $1.5 million purchase agreement and the $15.0 million purchase agreement contain limitations, restrictions, requirements, events of default and other provisions that could limit our ability to cause Lincoln Park to buy common stock from us, including that the closing price of our stock is at least $1.00 and that Lincoln Park own no more than 4.99% of our common stock under the $1.5 million purchase agreement or no more than 9.99% of our common stock under the $15.0 million purchase agreement. In addition, under the applicable rules of the NASDAQ Capital Market, if we seek to issue shares which may be aggregated with shares sold to Lincoln Park under the $1.5 million purchase agreement and the $15.0 million purchase agreement in excess of 1,151,829 shares or 19.99% of the total common stock outstanding as of the date of the $15.0 million purchase agreement, we may be required to seek shareholder approval in order to be in compliance with the NASDAQ Capital Market rules. The extent to which we rely on Lincoln Park as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the amount of working capital needed, the prevailing market price of our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure working capital from other sources. If obtaining sufficient funding from Lincoln Park were to prove unavailable or prohibitively dilutive, we would need to secure another source of funding. Even if we sell all $16.5 million of common stock under the purchase agreements with Lincoln Park, we will still need additional capital to fully implement our current business, operating plans and development plans, including to complete the Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in patients with SPMS and to conduct our operations through the expected completion date of such study. We have a history of operating losses and do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future. We have not generated any profits since our entry into the biotechnology business and we have incurred significant operating losses. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. We have not received, and we do not expect to receive for at least the next several years, any revenues from the commercializ­ation of any potential products. We do not currently have any sources of revenues and may not have any in the foreseeable future. There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern, which may make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Our audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012 and for the 12-month period then ended were prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern, meaning that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize assets and discharge liabilities in the ordinary course of operations. We do not currently generate revenues, and our burn rate during the 12 months ended December 31, 2012, inclusive of the cost preparations to commence the Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in patients with SPMS, was approximately $830,000 per month. Significant activities in the conduct of the clinical trial will result in substantial increases in our monthly cash burn during 2013. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to support our current clinical trial activities into the fourth quarter of 2013. In the absence of significant additional funding, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon our ability to obtain additional equity or debt financing, attain further operating efficiencies, reduce expenditures or to generate revenue. If we are unable to obtain additional financing for our operations, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations, cease operations or seek relief under applicable bankruptcy laws. In such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. Our consolidated financial statements contain no adjustment for the outcome of this uncertainty. Our business is at an early stage of development. We are largely dependent on the success of our product candidate, Tcelna, and we cannot be certain that Tcelna will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our business is at an early stage of development. We do not have any product candidates that have completed late-stage clinical trials nor do we have any products on the market. We have only one product candidate, Tcelna, which has progressed to the stage of being studied in human clinical trials in the United States. In September 2012, we announced the initiation of a Phase IIb study of Tcelna in patients with SPMS. We are still in the very early stages of identifying and conducting research on any other potential products. Tcelna, and any other potential products, will require regulatory approval prior to marketing in the United States and other countries. Obtaining such approval requires significant research and development and preclinical and clinical testing. We may not be able to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to continue clinical development of Tcelna, to enter clinical trials (or any development activities) for any other product candidates or to commercialize any products. Tcelna, and any other potential products, may prove to have undesirable or unintended side effects or other characteristics adversely affecting their safety, efficacy or cost-effectiveness that could prevent or limit their use. Any product using any of our technology may fail to provide the intended therapeutic benefits or to achieve therapeutic benefits equal to or better than the standard of treatment at the time of testing or production. 10 We might be unable to service our current debt due to a lack of cash flow or otherwise fail to comply with terms of the convertible secured promissory notes or related agreements and might be subject to default. The convertible secured promissory notes are secured by a pledge of all of our assets. The issuance of securities upon the conversion of such notes and/or the exercise of warrants issued in tandem with such notes will result in significant dilution for our shareholders. On July 25, 2012, we closed a private offering consisting of convertible secured notes and warrants to purchase shares of common stock which generated approximately $4.1 million in gross proceeds ($500,000 of which is held in a controlled account). The notes mature on July 25, 2014 and accrue interest at the rate of 12% per annum, compounded annually. Interest is payable semi-annually in either cash or registered shares of common stock at our election. The notes are secured by substantially all of our assets and are convertible into a new class of non-voting Series A convertible preferred stock. The notes can be converted into Series A convertible preferred stock at the option of the investors at a price of $100.00 per share, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. Additionally, we can elect to convert the notes into Series A convertible preferred stock if (i) our common stock closes at or above $10.00 per share for 20 consecutive trading days or (ii) we achieve certain additional funding milestones to continue our clinical trial program. These milestones include (x) executing a strategic agreement with a partner or potential partner by which we will receive a minimum of $5 million to partially fund, or an option to partner with us for, our Phase II clinical trial for Tcelna in patients with SPMS and (y) receiving a minimum of $25 million in additional capital (including the note offering proceeds) from any partner, potential partner or any other source. The Series A convertible preferred stock accrues dividends at the rate of 8% per annum, which are cumulative and payable semi-annually in either cash or registered shares of the common stock at our election. The Series A convertible preferred stock is convertible into shares of our common stock at the option of the holders at a price of $3.1225 per share, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. Additionally, we can elect to convert the Series A convertible preferred stock into common stock if our common stock closes at or above $16.00 per share for 20 consecutive trading days. To date, secured promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $900,000 have been converted into shares of Series A convertible preferred stock which, in turn, have been converted into an aggregate of 288,229 shares of common stock. No shares of Series A convertible preferred stock are currently outstanding. The warrants have an exercise price of $2.56 per share, a five-year term and are exercisable for 112.5% of the number of shares of common stock into which the initial principal amount of the notes is ultimately convertible, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. We can redeem the warrants at $0.01 per share if our common stock closes at or above $10.00 per share for 20 consecutive trading days. As a result of anti-dilution adjustments since the closing of the July 2012 secured promissory note financing, up to 1,020,007 shares of common stock are issuable if all currently outstanding convertible secured promissory notes are converted to Series A convertible preferred stock and such stock is then converted into shares of our common stock. The noteholders were granted certain registration rights for the shares of common stock underlying the notes and the warrants issued in July 2012. As part of the security interest in all of our assets granted to the noteholders, $500,000 of the proceeds is currently maintained in a controlled account. This amount was previously $1 million; however, in January 2013 we issued the noteholders five-year warrants to acquire an aggregate of 187,500 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.21 per share in exchange for the reduction of such amount. If we do not make the required payments when due, either at maturity, or at applicable installment payment dates, or if we breach other terms of the convertible secured notes or related agreements, the noteholders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. Even if we were able to prepay the full amount in cash, any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. If we are unable to repay those amounts, the noteholders will have a first claim on our assets pledged under the convertible secured notes. If the noteholders should attempt to foreclose on the collateral, it is unlikely that there would be any assets remaining after repayment in full of such secured indebtedness. Any default under the convertible secured notes and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue our operations. We have provided Merck with the Option, which provides Merck with the opportunity, if exercised, to control the development and commercialization of Tcelna in MS. In February 2013, we granted the Option to Merck. The Option permits Merck to acquire an exclusive, worldwide (excluding Japan) license of our Tcelna program for the treatment of MS. The Option may be exercised by Merck prior to or upon completion of our ongoing Phase IIb trial of Tcelna in patients with SPMS. If Merck exercises the Option, Merck would be solely responsible for funding development, regulatory and commercialization activities for Tcelna in MS, although we would retain an option to co-fund certain development in exchange for increased royalty rates. We would also retain rights to Tcelna in Japan, certain rights with respect to the manufacture of Tcelna, and rights outside of MS. In consideration for the Option, we received an upfront payment of $5 million and may be eligible to receive future upfront fees as well as milestone and royalty payments based on achievement of development and commercialization milestones. The rights we have relinquished to our product candidate Tcelna, including development and commercialization rights, may harm our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability. 11 If Merck exercises the Option, we would become reliant on Merck’s resources and efforts with respect to Tcelna in MS. In such an event, Merck may fail to develop or effectively commercialize Tcelna for a variety of reasons, including that Merck: ● does not have sufficient resources or decides not to devote the necessary resources due to internal constraints such as limited cash or human resources; ● decides to pursue a competitive potential product; ● cannot obtain the necessary regulatory approvals; ● determines that the market opportunity is not attractive; or ● cannot manufacture or obtain the necessary materials in sufficient quantities from multiple sources or at a reasonable cost. If Merck does not exercise the Option, we may be unable to enter into a collaboration with any other potential partner on acceptable terms, if at all. We face competition in our search for partners from other organizations worldwide, many of whom are larger and are able to offer more attractive deals in terms of financial commitments, contribution of human resources, or development, manufacturing, regulatory or commercial expertise and support. If Merck does not exercise the Option, and we are not successful in attracting another partner and entering into collaboration on acceptable terms, we may not be able to complete development of or commercialize any product candidate, including Tcelna. In such event, our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain profitability would be significantly hindered and we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. We will need regulatory approvals for any product candidate, including Tcelna, prior to introduction to the market, which will require successful testing in clinical trials. Clinical trials are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, and are very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Any product candidate, such as Tcelna, may fail to achieve necessary safety and efficacy endpoints during clinical trials in which case we will be unable to generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our products. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous FDA requirements, and must otherwise comply with federal, state and local requirements and policies of the medical institutions where they are conducted. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that the Phase IIb clinical trial in North America of our lead product candidate, Tcelna, in SPMS will complete enrollment by late 2013 or early 2014, with the resulting top-line data expected to be available in the first half of 2016. In addition, we anticipate that a pivotal Phase III clinical trial would be necessary before an application could be submitted for approval of Tcelna for SPMS. Failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and problems could be encountered that would cause us or Merck (in the event the Option is exercised) to be unable to initiate a trial, or to abandon or repeat a clinical trial. The commencement and completion of clinical trials, including the continuation and completion of the Phase IIb clinical trial of Tcelna in SPMS, may be delayed or prevented by several factors, including: ● FDA or IRB objection to proposed protocols; ● discussions or disagreement with the FDA over the adequacy of trial design to potentially demonstrate effectiveness, and subsequent design modifications; ● unforeseen safety issues; ● determination of dosing issues and related adjustments; ● lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; ● slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; ● product quality problems (e.g., sterility or purity); 12 ● challenges to patient monitoring and data collection during or after treatment (for example, patients’ failure to return for follow-up visits); and ● failure of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition, we, Merck (if the Option is exercised) or the FDA (based on its authority over clinical studies) may delay a proposed investigation or suspend clinical trials in progress at any time if it appears that the study may pose significant risks to the study participants or other serious deficiencies are identified. Prior to approval of any product candidate, the FDA must determine that the data demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Furthermore, changes in regulatory requirements and guidance may occur and we may need to amend clinical trial protocols, or otherwise modify our intended course of clinical development, to reflect these changes. This, too, may impact the costs, timing or successful completion of a clinical trial. In light of widely publicized events concerning the safety risk of certain drug products, regulatory authorities, members of Congress, the U.S. Government Accountability Office, medical professionals and the general public have raised concerns about potential drug safety issues. These events have resulted in the withdrawal of drug products, revisions to drug labeling that further limit use of the drug products, and establishment of risk management programs that may, for instance, restrict distribution of drug products. The increased attention to drug safety issues may result in a more cautious approach by the FDA to clinical trials. Data from clinical trials may receive greater scrutiny with respect to safety, which may make the FDA or other regulatory authorities more likely to terminate clinical trials before completion or require longer or additional clinical trials that may result in substantial additional expense and a delay or failure in obtaining approval or approval for a more limited indication than originally sought. Even if regulatory approval is obtained for any product candidate, such as Tcelna, any such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of any potential products, whether directly or through any development arrangement (such as where Merck exercises the Option) will be limited by any failure to obtain or limitation on necessary regulatory approvals. If Merck exercises the Option, Merck would be solely responsible for funding development, regulatory and commercialization activities for Tcelna in MS, although we would retain an option to co-fund certain development in exchange for increased royalty rates. We will rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and perform data collection and analysis, which may result in costs and delays that may hamper our ability to successfully develop and commercialize any product candidate, including Tcelna. Although we have participated in the design and management of our past clinical trials, we do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials directly for any product candidate, including Tcelna. We will need to rely on contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials and to perform data collection and analysis, including the Phase IIb trial of Tcelna in patients with SPMS. Our clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or terminated if: ● any third party upon whom we rely does not successfully carry out its contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines; ● any such third party needs to be replaced; or ● the quality or accuracy of the data obtained by the third party is compromised due to its failure to adhere to clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. Failure to perform by any third party upon whom we rely may increase our development costs, delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and prevent the commercialization of any product candidate, including Tcelna. While we believe that there are numerous alternative sources to provide these services, we might not be able to enter into replacement arrangements without delays or additional expenditures if we were to seek such alternative sources. If we fail to identify and license or acquire other product candidates, we will not be able to expand our business over the long term. We have targeted MS as the first disease to be pursued off our T-cell platform technology. As a platform technology, there exists the potential to address other autoimmune diseases with the technology. Minimal work has been done outside the lead MS indication. Our business over the long term is substantially dependent on our ability to develop, license or acquire product candidates and further develop them for commercialization. The success of this strategy depends upon our ability to expand our existing platform or identify, select and acquire the right product candidates. We have limited experience identifying, negotiating and implementing economically viable product candidate acquisitions or licenses, which is a lengthy and complex process. Also, the market for licensing and acquiring product candidates is intensely competitive, and many of our competitors have greater resources than we do. We may not have the requisite capital resources to consummate product candidate acquisitions or licenses that we identify to fulfill our strategy. 13 Moreover, any product candidate acquisition that we do complete will involve numerous risks, including: ● difficulties in integrating the development program for the acquired product candidate into our existing operations; ● diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; ● risks of entering new potential markets or technologies; ● inability to generate sufficient funding to offset acquisition costs; and ● delays that may result from our having to perform unanticipated preclinical trials or other tests on the product candidate. We are dependent upon our management team and a small number of employees. Our business strategy is dependent upon the skills and knowledge of our management team. If any critical employee leaves, we may be unable on a timely basis to hire suitable replacements to operate our business effectively. We also operate with a very small number of employees and thus have little or no backup capability for their activities. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the loss of just a few other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on licenses from third parties. These third party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations diligently to pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology platform could be adversely affected. Our current research and manufacturing facility is not large enough to manufacture product candidates, such as Tcelna, for certain clinical trials or, if such clinical trials are successful, commercial applications. We conduct our research and development in a 10,200 square foot facility in The Woodlands, Texas, which includes an approximately 1,200 square foot suite of three rooms for the manufacture of T-cell therapies. We believe our current facility should have the capacity to support full clinical development of Tcelna in North American trials for SPMS. It is not sufficient, however, to support clinical trials outside North America including Europe and Asia, if required, or the commercial launch of Tcelna. In this case, we would need to expand our manufacturing staff and facility, obtain a new facility, contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with future drug production and commercialization, or defer to Merck (in the event the Option is exercised) to address manufacturing requirements. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We do not have funds available for building a manufacturing facility, and we may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our commercial-scale manufacturing. We may arrange with third parties for the manufacture of our future products, if any. However, our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing our future products. If we employ third-party manufacturers, we will not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance by these third parties with cGMP and other regulatory requirements. We further may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. 14 If any product we may eventually have is not accepted by the market or if users of any such product are unable to obtain adequate coverage of and reimbursement for such product from government and other third-party payors, our revenues and profitability will suffer. In the instance of Tcelna, if Merck exercises the Option then our ability to achieve revenue will be dependent upon the efforts and success of Merck in developing and commercializing Tcelna. Our ability to successfully commercialize any product we may eventually have, to the extent applicable, and/or our ability to receive any revenue associated with Tcelna in the event Merck exercises the Option, will depend in significant part on the extent to which appropriate coverage of and reimbursement for such product and any related treatments are obtained from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as health maintenance organizations, or HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We cannot provide any assurances that third-party payors will consider any product cost-effective or provide coverage of and reimbursement for such product, in whole or in part. Uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of newly approved medical products and services and newly approved indications for existing products. Third-party payors may conclude that any product is less safe, less clinically effective, or less cost-effective than existing products, and third-party payors may not approve such product for coverage and reimbursement. If adequate coverage of and reimbursement for any product from third-party payors cannot be obtained, physicians may limit how much or under what circumstances they will prescribe or administer them. Such reduction or limitation in the use of any such product would cause sales to suffer. Even if third-party payors make reimbursement available, payment levels may not be sufficient to make the sale of any such product profitable. In addition, the trend towards managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of medical services and products, may result in inadequate coverage of and reimbursement for any product we may eventually have. Many third-party payors, including in particular HMOs, are pursuing various ways to reduce pharmaceutical costs, including, for instance, the use of formularies. The market for any product depends on access to such formularies, which are lists of medications for which third-party payors provide reimbursement. These formularies are increasingly restricted, and pharmaceutical companies face significant competition in their efforts to place their products on formularies of HMOs and other third-party payors. This increased competition has led to a downward pricing pressure in the industry. The cost containment measures that third-party payors are instituting could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate profitably. Any product candidate, such as Tcelna, if approved for sale, may not gain acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, thereby limiting our potential to generate revenues. Even if a product candidate, such as Tcelna, is approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, the degree of market acceptance of any approved product candidate by physicians, healthcare professionals and third-party payors, and our profitability and growth, will depend on a number of factors, including: ● demonstration of efficacy; ● relative convenience and ease of administration; ● the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; ● availability and cost of alternative treatments, including cheaper generic drugs; ● pricing and cost effectiveness, which may be subject to regulatory control; ● effectiveness of sales and marketing strategies of the product and competition for such product; ● the product labeling or product insert required by the FDA or regulatory authority in other countries; and ● the availability of adequate third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If any product candidate does not provide a treatment regimen that is as beneficial as the current standard of care or otherwise does not provide patient benefit, that product candidate, if approved for commercial sale by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, likely will not achieve market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from that product candidate would be substantially reduced. 15 We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, increased costs and risks as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, as well as rules and regulations implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market (NASDAQ). Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of SOX and rules adopted by the SEC and by NASDAQ, have resulted in, and will continue to result in, increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. Given the risks inherent in the design and operation of internal controls over financial reporting, the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting is uncertain. If our internal controls are not designed or operating effectively, we may not be able to conclude an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required or we or our independent registered public accounting firm may determine that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective. In addition, our registered public accounting firm may either disclaim an opinion as it relates to management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls or may issue an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and which could affect our ability to run our business as we otherwise would like to. New rules could also make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the coverage that is the same or similar to our current coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors, our Board committees and as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the total amount of the costs we may incur or the timing of such costs to comply with these rules and regulations. Under the corporate governance standards of NASDAQ, a majority of our Board of Directors and each member of our Audit Committee must be an independent director. If any vacancies on our Board or our Audit Committee occur that need to be filled by independent directors, we may encounter difficulty in attracting qualified persons to serve on our Board and, in particular, our Audit Committee. If we fail to attract and retain the required number of independent directors, we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Patents obtained by other persons may result in infringement claims against us that are costly to defend and which may limit our ability to use the disputed technologies and prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of potential products, such as Tcelna. If third party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by either our licensed technology or other technology required to make or use our potential products, such as Tcelna, and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. If we are unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, we (or, in the event the Option is exercised, Merck with respect to Tcelna) may not be able to develop any affected product candidate commercially. There can be no assurance that we will not be obliged to defend ourselves (or, in the event the Option is exercised, Merck with respect to Tcelna) in court against allegations of infringement of third party patents. Patent litigation is very expensive and could consume substantial resources and create significant uncertainties. An adverse outcome in such a suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease using such technology. If we are unable to obtain patent protection and other proprietary rights, our operations will be significantly harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent upon obtaining patent protection relating to our technologies. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. The coverage sought in a patent application can be denied or significantly reduced before or after the patent is issued. Consequently, we do not know whether pending patent applications for our technology will result in the issuance of patents, or if any issued patents will provide significant protection or commercial advantage or will be circumvented by others. Since patent applications are secret until the applications are published (usually 18 months after the earliest effective filing date), and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that the inventors of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights were the first to make the inventions at issue or that any patent applications at issue were the first to be filed for such inventions. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from pending patent applications or, if issued, that such patents will be of commercial benefit to us, afford us adequate protection from competing products, or not be challenged or declared invalid. For our licensed intellectual property, we have limited control over the amount or timing of resources that are devoted to the prosecution of such intellectual property. Due to this lack of control and general uncertainties in the patent prosecution process, we cannot be sure that any licensed patents will result from licensed applications or, if they do, that they will be maintained. Issued U.S. patents require the payment of maintenance fees to continue to be in force. We rely on licensors to do this and their failure to do so could result in the forfeiture of patents not timely maintained. Many foreign patent offices also require the payment of periodic annuities to keep patents and patent applications in good standing. As we do not maintain control over the payment of annuities, we cannot assure you that our licensors will timely pay such annuities and that the granted patents and pending patent applications will not become abandoned. In addition, our licensors may have selected a limited amount of foreign patent protection, and therefore applications have not been filed in, and foreign patents may not have been perfected in, all commercially significant countries. 16 The patent protection of product candidates, such as Tcelna, involves complex legal and factual questions. To the extent that it would be necessary or advantageous for any of our licensors to cooperate or lead in the enforcement of our licensed intellectual property rights, we cannot control the amount or timing of resources such licensors devote on our behalf or the priority they place on enforcing such rights. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against third party infringement, which may be difficult to detect. Additionally, challenges may be made to the ownership of our intellectual property rights, our ability to enforce them, or our underlying licenses. We cannot be certain that any of the patents issued to us or to our licensors will provide adequate protection from competing products. Our success will depend, in part, on whether we or our licensors can: ● obtain and maintain patents to protect our product candidates such as Tcelna; ● obtain and maintain any required or desirable licenses to use certain technologies of third parties, which may be protected by patents; ● protect our trade secrets and know-how; ● operate without infringing the intellectual property and proprietary rights of others; ● enforce the issued patents under which we hold rights; and ● develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights (owned or licensed) is uncertain. For example: ● we or our licensor might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by pending patent applications or issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us; ● we or our licensor might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; ● others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of the technologies owned by, or licensed to, us; ● it is possible that none of the pending patent applications owned by, or licensed to, us will result in issued patents; ● any patents under which we hold rights may not provide us with a basis for commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties as invalid, or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; or ● any of the issued patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable or may be circumvented successfully in light of the continuing evolution of domestic and foreign patent laws. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. We rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect, and we cannot be certain that others will not develop the same or similar technologies on their own. We have taken steps, including entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors, to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. We also typically obtain agreements from these parties which provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Further, we have limited control, if any, over the protection of trade secrets developed by our licensors. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or know-how is difficult, expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets or know-how. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. A dispute concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and costly, and an unfavorable outcome could harm our business. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have been issued patents relating to cell therapy, T-cells, and other technologies potentially relevant to or required by our product candidate Tcelna. We cannot predict which, if any, of such applications will issue as patents or the claims that might be allowed. We are aware of a number of patent applications and patents claiming use of modified cells to treat disease, disorder or injury. 17 There is significant litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. While we are not currently subject to any pending intellectual property litigation, and are not aware of any such threatened litigation, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our product candidates, such as Tcelna, or their methods of use, manufacturing or other technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of such third parties. If our product candidates, such as Tcelna, or their methods of manufacture are found to infringe any such patents, we may have to pay significant damages or seek licenses under such patents. We have not conducted comprehensive searches of patents issued to third parties relating to Tcelna. Consequently, no assurance can be given that third-party patents containing claims covering Tcelna, its method of use or manufacture do not exist or have not been filed and will not be issued in the future. Because some patent applications in the United States may be maintained in secrecy until the patents are issued, and because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications that will mature into issued patents that relate to our current or future product candidates that could have a material effect in developing and commercializing one or more of our product candidates. A patent holder could prevent us from importing, making, using or selling the patented compounds. We may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. Similarly, we may be subject to claims that we have inappropriately used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of third parties. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our managerial and financial resources, regardless of whether we win or lose. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. We may not be able to afford the costs of litigation. Any legal action against us or our collaborators could lead to: ● payment of actual damages, royalties, lost profits, potentially treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party’s patent rights; ● injunctive or other equitable relief that may effectively block our ability to further develop, commercialize and sell our products; ● we or our collaborators having to enter into license arrangements that may not be available on commercially acceptable terms if at all; or ● significant cost and expense, as well as distraction of our management from our business. As a result, we could be prevented from commercializing current or future product candidates. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to stringent regulation of our product candidates, such as Tcelna, which could delay development and commercialization. We, our third-party contractors, suppliers and partners (such as Merck, in the event the Option is exercised, with respect to Tcelna), and our product candidates, such as Tcelna, are subject to stringent regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in other countries. None of our product candidates can be marketed in the United States until it has been approved by the FDA. No product candidate of ours has been approved, and we may never receive FDA approval for any product candidate. Obtaining FDA approval typically takes many years and requires substantial resources. Even if regulatory approval is obtained, the FDA may impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, conditions for use and labeling of such products. Additionally, the FDA may require post-approval studies, including additional research and development and clinical trials. These regulatory requirements may limit the size of the market for the product or result in the incurrence of additional costs. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could substantially reduce our ability to generate revenues. In addition, both before and after regulatory approval, we, our partners and our product candidates, such as Tcelna, are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, distribution and export. The FDA’s requirements may change and additional government regulations may be promulgated that could affect us, our partners and our product candidates, such as Tcelna. Given the number of recent high profile adverse safety events with certain drug products, the FDA may require, as a condition of approval, costly risk management programs, which may include safety surveillance, restricted distribution and use, patient education, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, preapproval of promotional materials and restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising. Furthermore, heightened Congressional scrutiny on the adequacy of the FDA’s drug approval process and the agency’s efforts to assure the safety of marketed drugs resulted in the enactment of legislation addressing drug safety issues, the FDA Amendments Act of 2007. This legislation provides the FDA with expanded authority over drug products after approval and the FDA’s exercise of this authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, and increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of government regulation that may arise from this or future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. 18 In order to market any of our products outside of the United States, we and our strategic partners and licensees must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods and the time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Approval by the FDA does not automatically lead to the approval of authorities outside of the United States and, similarly, approval by other regulatory authorities outside the United States will not automatically lead to FDA approval. In addition, regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Our product candidates, such as Tcelna, may not be approved for all indications that we request, which would limit uses and adversely impact our potential royalties and product sales. Such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which any potential product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries, among other things, we may be subject to fines and other civil penalties, delays in approving or failure to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions, interruption of manufacturing or clinical trials, injunctions and criminal prosecution, any of which would harm our business. We may need to change our business practices to comply with health care fraud and abuse regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If Merck exercises the Option, Merck would be solely responsible for funding development, regulatory and commercialization activities for Tcelna in MS, although we would retain an option to co-fund certain development in exchange for increased royalty rates. Otherwise, if we are successful in achieving approval to market one or more of our product candidates, our operations will be directly, or indirectly through our customers, subject to various state and federal fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and False Claims Act. These laws may impact, among other things, our proposed sales, marketing, and education programs. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Several courts have interpreted the statute’s intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the healthcare industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as the “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth provisions that, if all their applicable requirements are met, will assure healthcare providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted laws similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, some of which apply to the referral of patients for healthcare items or services reimbursed by any source, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The federal False Claims Act prohibits persons from knowingly filing or causing to be filed a false claim to, or the knowing use of false statements to obtain payment from, the federal government. Suits filed under the False Claims Act, known as “qui tam” actions, can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals, sometimes known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers,” may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. The frequency of filing of qui tam actions has increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a False Claims Act action. When an entity is determined to have violated the federal False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties. Various states have also enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. In addition to the laws described above, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines or imprisonment. 19 If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above and other applicable state and federal fraud and abuse laws, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective than our product candidates, they may reduce or eliminate our commercial opportunities. Competition in the pharmaceutical industry, particularly the market for MS products, is intense, and we expect such competition to continue to increase. We face competition from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as numerous academic and research institutions and governmental agencies, in the United States and abroad. Our competitors have products that have been approved or are in advanced development and may succeed in developing drugs that are more effective, safer and more affordable or more easily administered than ours, or that achieve patent protection or commercialization sooner than our products. Our most significant competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies. These companies have significantly greater capital resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we currently do. However, smaller companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through proprietary research discoveries and collaboration arrangements with large pharmaceutical and established biotechnology companies. In addition to the competitors with existing products that have been approved, many of our competitors are further along in the process of product development and also operate large, company-funded research and development programs. As a result, our competitors may develop more competitive or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or further product commercialization than we are able to achieve. Competitive products may render any products or product candidates that we develop obsolete. Our competitors may also develop alternative therapies that could further limit the market for any products that we may develop. Rapid technological change could make our products obsolete. Biopharmaceutical technologies have undergone rapid and significant change, and we expect that they will continue to do so. As a result, there is significant risk that our product candidates, such as Tcelna, may be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by new discoveries before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with their development. If our product candidates, such as Tcelna, are rendered obsolete by advancements in biopharmaceutical technologies, our future prospects will suffer. Consumers may sue us for product liability, which could result in substantial liabilities that exceed our available resources and damage our reputation. Developing and commercializing drug products entails significant product liability risks. Liability claims may arise from our and our collaborators’ use of products in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products. In the event that any of our product candidates becomes an approved product and is commercialized, consumers may make product liability claims directly against us and/or our partners (such as Merck, in the event the Option is exercised, with respect to Tcelna), and our partners or others selling these products may seek contribution from us if they incur any loss or expenses related to such claims. We have insurance that covers clinical trial activities. We believe our current insurance coverage is reasonably adequate at this time. However, we will need to increase and expand this coverage as we commence additional clinical trials, as well as larger scale trials, and if any product candidate is approved for commercial sale. This insurance may be prohibitively expensive or may not fully cover our potential liabilities. Our inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the regulatory approval or commercialization of products that we or one of our collaborators develop. Product liability claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Liability from such claims could exceed our total assets if we do not prevail in any lawsuit brought by a third party alleging that an injury was caused by one or more of our products. Health care reform measures could adversely affect our business. The business and financial condition of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are affected by the efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care. In the United States and in foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals aimed at changing the health care system. For example, in some countries other than the United States, pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control, and we expect proposals to implement similar controls in the United States to continue. Another example of reform that could affect our business is drug reimportation into the United States (i.e., the reimportation of approved drugs originally manufactured in the United States back into the United States from other countries where the drugs were sold at lower prices). Initiatives in this regard could decrease the price we or any potential collaborators receive for our product candidates if they are ever approved for sale, adversely affecting our future revenue growth and potential profitability. Moreover, the pendency or approval of such proposals could result in a decrease in our stock price or adversely affect our ability to raise capital or to obtain strategic partnerships or licenses. 20 Risks Related to Our Securities There is currently a limited market for our securities, and any trading market that exists in our securities may be highly illiquid and may not reflect the underlying value of our net assets or business prospects. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is currently a limited market for our securities and there can be no assurance that an active market will ever develop. Investors are cautioned not to rely on the possibility that an active trading market may develop. Our stock may be delisted from NASDAQ, which could affect its market price and liquidity. We are required to meet certain qualitative and financial tests (including a minimum stockholders’ equity requirement of $2.5 million and bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and our common stock is in jeopardy of being delisted. On November 26, 2012, we received a staff deficiency letter from NASDAQ notifying us that the stockholders’ equity of $2,339,285 as reported in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2012 was below the minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million required for continued listing on NASDAQ. We were provided 45 calendar days, or until January 10, 2013, to submit a plan to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity standard. We submitted such a plan and it was accepted, with NASDAQ thus granting us an extension until May 15, 2013 to evidence compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity standard. If we fail to evidence compliance upon filing our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2013, we may be subject to delisting. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we believe we have regained compliance with the stockholders’ equity requirement based on our stockholders’ equity balance of $2,883,332 as of December 31,2012 and the equity capital we have raised subsequent to December 31, 2012. While we are exercising diligent efforts to maintain the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain compliance with the stockholder’s equity standard. It is also possible that we could fail to satisfy another NASDAQ requirement for continued listing of our stock, such as the minimum bid price, the market value or number of publicly held shares or number of shareholders, or a corporate governance requirement. For example, during portions of 2008 and 2009, our stockholders’ equity was below the continued listing standard requirement of $2.5 million and the bid price for our common stock was below $1.00 per share for periods of time, and our common stock was in jeopardy of being delisted. Additionally, during 2010 and 2011, the trading price of our common stock was minimally above $1.00 per share for certain periods of time, and our stock closed below $1.00 per share from December 2011 through part of December 2012. In February 2012, we received a staff deficiency letter from NASDAQ indicating that our common stock failed to comply with the minimum bid price requirement because it traded below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price for 30 consecutive trading days, and after an initial and an extended grace period, and implementation of a one-for-four reverse stock split of our common stock on December 14, 2012, we regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price listing standard and NASDAQ notified us that the matter was closed in January 2013. However, there is no assurance that the closing bid price of our common stock will continue to stay above the minimum continued listing standard. We may receive additional future notices from NASDAQ that we have failed to meet its requirements, and proceedings to delist our stock could be commenced. In such event, NASDAQ rules permit us to appeal any delisting determination to a NASDAQ Hearings Panel. If we are unable to maintain or regain compliance in a timely manner and our common stock is delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. As our share price is volatile, and you may not be able to resell our shares at a profit or at all. The market prices for securities of biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and early-stage drug discovery and development companies like us in particular, have historically been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. The following factors, in addition to other risk factors described in this section, may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: ● the development status of any drug candidates, such as Tcelna, including clinical study results and determinations by regulatory authorities with respect thereto; ● the initiation, termination, or reduction in the scope of any collaboration arrangements (such as developments involving Merck and the Option Agreement, including a decision by Merck to exercise or not exercise the Option) or any disputes or developments regarding such collaborations; 21 ● announcements of technological innovations, new commercial products or other material events by our competitors or us; ● disputes or other developments concerning our proprietary rights; ● changes in, or failure to meet, securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our financial performance; ● additions or departures of key personnel; ● discussions of our business, products, financial performance, prospects or stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities; ● public concern as to, and legislative action with respect to, the pricing and availability of prescription drugs or the safety of drugs and drug delivery techniques; ● regulatory developments in the United States and in foreign countries; or ● dilutive effects of sales of shares of common stock by us or our shareholders, including Lincoln Park, and sales of common stock acquired upon exercise or conversion by the holders of warrants, options or convertible notes. Broad market and industry factors, as well as economic and political factors, also may materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may be or become the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities or the reporting of unfavorable news, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our securities experience adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. Our “blank check” preferred stock could be issued to prevent a business combination not desired by management or our current majority stockholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our Board of Directors without stockholder approval. Our preferred stock could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in our control and as a method of preventing stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. In July 2012, we closed a private offering consisting of convertible secured notes and warrants to purchase common stock which generated approximately $4.1 million in gross proceeds, of which notes in the aggregate principal amount of $900,000 have been converted into shares of Series A convertible preferred stock which, in turn, have been converted into an aggregate of 288,229 shares of common stock. From November 2012 through January 2013, we sold an aggregate of 390,000 shares to Lincoln Park pursuant to the $1.5 million purchase agreement and issued an additional 56,507 shares as initial commitment shares and 3,585 shares as additional commitment shares. In January 2013, we issued $650,000 principal amount of unsecured convertible promissory notes of which $100,000 was converted into 77,034 shares of common stock at $1.298125 per share and the remaining $550,000 of principal amount plus accrued interest was repaid. Purchasers of such notes also received five-year warrants to acquire an aggregate of 243,750 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.24 per share. Pursuant to a Sales Agreement executed on September 6, 2012, we have registered for sale up to 1,000,000 shares of common stock through Brinson Patrick Securities Corporation acting as sales agent in an “at-the-market” program. In February 2013, we sold an aggregate of 167,618 shares of our common stock pursuant to such at-the-market program, for gross proceeds of $536,417. On February 11, 2013, we closed on an offering of 1,083,334 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase shares of common stock, for gross proceeds of $3,250,002. There is no assurance that our capital raising efforts will be able to attract the capital needed to execute on our business plan and sustain our operations. Sales of a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. An aggregate of 7,991,559 shares of common stock were outstanding as of March 15, 2013. As of such date, another (i) 816,432 shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, (ii) 3,422,652 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, and (iii) 1,020,007 shares were issuable if all outstanding 12% convertible secured promissory notes were converted to Series A convertible preferred stock which was then ultimately converted into common stock. A substantial majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933. We may sell additional shares of common stock, as well as securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, in subsequent public or private offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock, as well as securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, to finance future acquisitions. Among other requirements, we will need to raise significant additional capital in order to continue and complete the Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in SPMS, and this may require us to issue a substantial amount of securities (including common stock as well as securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock). We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock, as well as securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our securities will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, as well as securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock, including shares issued in connection with an acquisition or securing funds to complete our clinical trial plans, or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. 22 The sale or issuance of our common stock to Lincoln Park may cause dilution and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Lincoln Park, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause the price of our common stock to fall. Under the purchase agreements with Lincoln Park, we may direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $1.5 million of shares of common stock subject to certain limitations over a 30-month period, and, upon effectiveness of a registration statement for resale of the applicable shares pursuant to the $15.0 million purchase agreement, and subject to other conditions, we may also direct Lincoln Park to purchase up to $15.0 million of our shares of common stock over a 30-month period. However, in conjunction with our February 2013 offering of common stock and warrants, we agreed not to sell shares under the purchase agreements with Lincoln Park for a period of 120 days after the offering. We have sold an aggregate of 390,000 shares to date under the $1.5 million purchase agreement. Additionally, we issued Lincoln Park 56,507 shares of common stock as initial commitment shares and have issued an aggregate of 3,585 additional commitment shares, and may in the future issue up to an additional 109,428 shares of common stock as additional commitment shares, as a fee for its commitment to purchase the shares under the $1.5 million purchase agreement and the $15.0 million purchase agreement. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Lincoln Park is dependent upon the number of shares purchased by Lincoln Park under the purchase agreements. Depending on market liquidity at the time, sales of shares we issue to Lincoln Park may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Subject to certain conditions, we generally have the right to control the timing and amount of any sales of our shares to Lincoln Park, except that, pursuant to the terms of our agreements with Lincoln Park, we would be unable to sell shares to Lincoln Park if and when the market price of our common stock is below $1.00 per share or if Lincoln Park would own more than 4.99% of our common stock for stock sold to it under the $1.5 million purchase agreement or 9.99% of our common stock for stock sold to it under the $15.0 million purchase agreement. The purchase price for the shares that we may sell to Lincoln Park will fluctuate based on the price of our common stock and other factors determined by us. As such, Lincoln Park may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the shares of our common stock and, after it has acquired shares, Lincoln Park may sell all, some or none of those shares. Therefore, sales to Lincoln Park by us pursuant to either or both of the purchase agreements could result in substantial dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock to Lincoln Park, or the anticipation of such sales, could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on the common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of our business. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution in the value of their investment if we issue additional shares of our capital stock. Our charter allows us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of our common stock and to issue and designate the rights of, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In connection with the July 25, 2012 convertible note financing, 80,000 shares of preferred stock were designated as non-voting Series A convertible preferred stock. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock at prices that may not be the same as the price per share paid by other investors, and dilution to our stockholders could result. We may sell shares or other securities in any other offering at a price per share that is less than the price per share paid by investors, and investors purchasing shares or other securities in the future could have rights superior to existing stockholders. The price per share at which we sell additional shares of our common stock, or securities convertible or exchangeable into common stock, in future transactions may be higher or lower than the price per share paid by other investors. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, guarantees, preferred stock, hybrid securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive distributions of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in future offerings may be influenced by market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. 23 For example, on July 25, 2012, we closed a private offering consisting of convertible secured notes and warrants to purchase common stock which generated approximately $4.1 million in gross proceeds. The notes mature on July 25, 2014 and accrue interest at the rate of 12% per annum, compounded annually, payable in either cash or registered shares of common stock. The notes are secured by substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, and $500,000 of the proceeds from the note offering is being held in a controlled account as part of the security interest granted to the noteholders. This amount was previously $1 million; however, in January 2013 we issued the noteholders five-year warrants to acquire an aggregate of 187,500 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.21 per share in exchange for the reduction of such amount. The notes are convertible into a new class of non-voting Series A convertible preferred stock at a conversion price of $100.00, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. The Series A convertible preferred stock accrues cumulative dividends at the rate of 8% per annum, payable in either cash or registered shares of common stock, and carries a $100.00 per share liquidation preference. The Series A convertible preferred stock is convertible into common stock at a conversion price of $3.1225, subject to certain limitations and adjustments. As a result of anti-dilution adjustments since the closing of the July 2012 financing: (i) up to 1,020,007 shares of common stock are issuable if all the current outstanding principal balance of $3,185,000 of convertible secured promissory notes are converted to Series A convertible preferred stock and such stock is then converted into common stock; and (ii) the warrants issued to the purchasers of the convertible secured promissory notes are exercisable at an adjusted exercise price of $2.56 per share for an aggregate of 1,436,121 shares of common stock. As of March 15, 2013, secured promissory notes with an aggregate principal amount of $900,000 have been converted into shares of Series A convertible preferred stock which, in turn, have been converted into an aggregate of 288,229 shares of our common stock. Our management has significant flexibility in using our current available cash. In addition to general corporate purposes (including working capital and operational purposes), we currently intend to use our available cash, including the $5 million proceeds received from Merck in February 2013 as well as the approximately $3.25 million in gross proceeds from the February 2013 registered offering of common stock and warrants, to continue our ongoing Phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in SPMS. The Phase IIb clinical study in North America of Tcelna is expected to complete enrollment of 180 patients by late 2013 or early 2014, with the resulting top-line data expected to be available in the first half of 2016. The estimated future costs of the study, as well as the ongoing expenses of our operations through the expected completion date of the study and release of top-line data, are estimated to be between $33-35 million as of January 1, 2013. We used the $650,000 gross proceeds from the January 2013 private offering of convertible unsecured promissory notes and warrants as bridge financing to continue our Phase IIb clinical study while continuing discussions with Merck regarding the February 2013 Option and License Agreement. We repaid the principal balance of the January 2013 notes with $550,000 in cash and $100,000 was converted into 77,034 shares of common stock Our existing resources are not adequate to permit us to complete our ongoing phase IIb clinical study of Tcelna in SPMS or the majority of it. We will need to secure significant additional resources to complete the trial and support our operations during the pendency of the trial. Depending on future developments and circumstances, we may use some of our available cash for other purposes. Notwithstanding our current intention to use our available cash for further clinical studies of Tcelna, our management will have significant flexibility in using our current available cash. The actual amounts and timing of expenditures will vary significantly depending on a number of factors, including the amount and timing of cash used in our operations and our research and development efforts. Management’s failure to use these funds effectively would have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock and could make it more difficult and costly to raise funds in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 