Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: We may not be able to grow unless we increase market acceptance of our products, compete effectively and develop new products and applications. Our primary competition consists of wood products, which constitute a substantial majority of decking, railing, porches, fencing and trim sales. Since wood/plastic composite products were introduced to the market in the early 1990’s, their market acceptance has increased, but during the last few years, the rate of conversion from purchasing wood products to purchasing wood/plastic composite products has slowed. Our ability to grow will depend largely on our success in continuing to convert demand for wood in decking, railing, fencing, and trim applications into a demand for Trex products. To increase our market share, we must overcome: • the consumer lack of awareness of the enhanced value of non-wood decking, railing, fencing and trim alternatives in general and Trex brand products in particular; • the resistance of many consumers and contractors to change from well-established wood products; 9 Table of Contents • the consumer lack of awareness that the greater initial expense of Trex decking, railing, fencing and trim compared to wood is a one-time cost that is realized over time as Trex products have a longer life span than wood; • the established relationships existing between suppliers of wood decking, railing, fencing and trim products and contractors and homebuilders; • actual and perceived quality issues with first generation wood/plastic composite products; and • the competition from other wood-alternative manufacturers. We must also compete with a number of companies in the wood/plastic composites segment of the decking, railing, fencing and trim markets and with wood producers that currently have more production capacity than is required to meet the demand for such products. Our failure to compete successfully in such markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace wood or increase the market share of wood/plastic composites compared to wood. Many of the conventional lumber suppliers with which we compete have established ties to the building and construction industry and have well-accepted products. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of competitors to develop new non-wood alternatives that are more competitive with Trex products. In addition to the above, substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of our proprietary wood/plastic composite material. Although we have developed, and continue to develop, new products made from other materials, if we should experience significant problems, real or perceived, with product quality or acceptance of the Trex wood/polyethylene composite material, our lack of product diversification could have a significant adverse impact on our net sales levels. Our prospects for sales growth and profitability may be adversely affected if we fail to maintain product quality and product performance at an acceptable cost. We will be able to expand our net sales and to sustain and enhance profitable operations only if we succeed in maintaining the quality and performance of our products. If we should not be able to produce high-quality products at standard manufacturing rates and yields, unit costs may be higher. A lack of product performance would negatively affect our profitability by impeding acceptance of our products in the marketplace and by leading to higher product replacement and consumer relations expenses. In recent periods, we have experienced significant warranty expenses related to a small portion of our production manufactured at our Fernley, Nevada facility prior to 2007 and have increased our warranty reserve accordingly. We have limited our financial exposure by agreeing to settle a nationwide class action lawsuit which fixes our obligation in each claim to provide replacement product and provide a partial labor reimbursement. However, because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of the number of future claims, our ultimate losses may exceed our warranty reserve. Increases we have made to the warranty reserve and payments for related claims in recent years have had a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows in those periods. Future increases to the warranty reserve could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows in the periods in which we make such increases and pay such claims. In addition, our products are used outdoors and are sometimes subject to heavy use and harsh exposure to the environment. Although our Limited Warranty excludes any conditions attributable to “any act of God (such as flooding, hurricane, earthquake, lightning, etc., ), environmental condition (such as air pollution, mold, mildew, etc.), staining from foreign substances (such as dirt, grease, oil, etc.), or normal weathering (defined as exposure to sunlight, weather and atmosphere which may cause any colored surface to gradually fade, chalk, or accumulate dirt or stains”), to the extent that our products are affected in any way, this may lead to an increased risk of product liability claims or litigation. We are currently defending a number of class action lawsuits based upon mold growth on our products. These claims, as well as other potential claims, are a potential financial exposure to us and could cause adverse 10 Table of Contents publicity, which in turn could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products and also reduce our sales. Product quality claims could increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and, consequently, reduce our net sales, net income and liquidity. Our business is subject to risks in obtaining the raw materials we use at acceptable prices. The production of our product requires substantial amounts of wood fiber and PE material. Our business strategy is to create a substantial cost advantage over our competitors by using recycled plastic and reclaimed wood. Our business could suffer from the termination of significant sources of raw materials, the payment of higher prices for raw materials or from the failure to obtain sufficient additional raw materials to meet planned increases in production. Our ability to obtain adequate supplies of PE material depends on our success in developing new sources that meet our quality requirements, maintaining favorable relationships with suppliers and managing the collection of supplies from geographically dispersed distribution centers and off-shore sources. We sell to certain customers that account for a significant portion of our sales, and the loss of one or more of these customers could have an adverse effect on our business. A limited number of customers account for a significant percentage of our sales. Specifically, sales through our 15 largest customers accounted for approximately 89% of gross sales during fiscal year 2011, 92% during fiscal year 2010 and 89% during fiscal year 2009. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be sold through a small number of customers, and certain customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our sales. The loss of a significant customer could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited ability to control or project inventory build-ups in our distribution channel that can negatively affect our sales in subsequent periods. The dynamic nature of our industry can result in substantial fluctuations in inventory levels of Trex products carried in our two-step distribution channel. We have limited ability to control or precisely project inventory build-ups, which can adversely affect our net sales levels in subsequent periods. We make the substantial majority of our sales to wholesale distributors, who, in turn, sell our products to local lumber yards. Because of the seasonal nature of the demand for decking, railing, fencing and trim, our distribution channel partners must forecast demand for our products, place orders for the products, and maintain Trex product inventories in advance of the prime deck-building season, which generally occurs in our late first through third fiscal quarters. Accordingly, our results for the second and third fiscal quarters are difficult to predict and past performance will not necessarily indicate future performance. Inventory levels respond to a number of changing conditions in our industry, including product price increases resulting from escalating raw materials costs, increases in the number of competitive producers and in the production capacity of those competitors, the rapid pace of product introduction and innovation, changes in the levels of home-building and remodeling expenditures, and the cost and availability of credit. Weather-related demand fluctuations can also affect inventory levels. Unexpected cool weather or extraordinary rainfall can result in inventory build-ups, which adversely affects sales of our products. The demand for our products is influenced by general economic conditions and could be adversely affected by economic downturns. The demand for our products is correlated to changes in the health of the economy in general, and the level of activity in home improvements and, to a much lesser extent, new home construction. These activity levels, in turn, are affected by such factors as home equity values, consumer spending habits, employment, interest rates and inflation. Market conditions in the housing industry slowed significantly in 2008 and subsequent periods thereafter, particularly in new home construction. Home equity values in many markets that decreased significantly during those time periods have not recovered or have only begun to recover. This devaluation in home equity values has adversely affected the availability of home equity withdrawals, which have resulted in 11 Table of Contents decreased home improvement spending. Beginning in 2008, the economy has suffered an unprecedented downturn. We cannot predict when the economy will recover and whether the home remodeling and new home construction environment will stabilize or worsen. Any continued economic downturn could reduce consumer income or equity capital available for spending on discretionary items such as decking, railing, porches, fencing and trim, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. We have significant capital invested in property, plant and equipment that may become obsolete or impaired and result in a charge to our earnings. At December 31, 2011, we had $115.2 million of net property, plant and equipment. The improvement we seek to make to our manufacturing processes sometimes involves the implementation of new technology and replacement of equipment at our manufacturing facilities, which may result in charges to our earnings if the existing equipment is not fully depreciated. In September 2007, we suspended operations at our Olive Branch facility and consolidated all of our manufacturing operations into our Winchester and Fernley sites. In September 2009, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $23.3 million related to the long-lived assets held at the facility. Of our net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2011, approximately $9.9 million is located at our Olive Branch, Mississippi manufacturing facility. We do not currently anticipate further impairments on the remaining assets. However, changes in the expected cash flows related to the facility could result in additional impairment charges and reduced earnings in future periods. Our level of indebtedness, and ability to continue to obtain financing on favorable terms, could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of December 31, 2011, we had $91.9 million of total indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds to alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to refinance our principal secured indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit facility imposes operating and financial restrictions that may limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets; • engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliated persons; 12 Table of Contents • make investments; and • change the nature of our business. We may incur indebtedness in addition to our current indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future could subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our convertible notes, borrow and repay amounts under our revolving credit facility and continue to comply with our loan covenants will depend primarily on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations. Our failure to comply with our loan covenants might cause our lenders to accelerate our repayment obligations under our credit facility, which may be declared payable immediately based on a default and which could result in a cross-default under our $91.9 million principal amount of outstanding convertible notes. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is tied to a borrowing base that consists of specified receivables and inventory. To remain in compliance with our credit facility, we must maintain specified financial ratios based on our levels of debt, capital, net worth, fixed charges, and earnings (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary non-cash losses) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, all of which are subject to the risks of our business. 