Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is exposed to various risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of its business including the following: (i) failure to earn on a consistent basis an adequate return on invested capital; (ii) ability to retain and attract professional and technical employees; (iii) the potential loss of large-volume industrial customers to alternate fuels, facility closings or production changes; (iv) volatility in the price and availability of natural gas; (v) uncertainty in the projected rate of growth of natural gas requirements in the Company’s service area; (vi) general economic conditions both locally and nationally; (vii) increases in interest rates; (viii) increased customer delinquencies and conservation efforts resulting from high fuel costs and/or colder weather; (ix) developments in electricity and natural gas deregulation and associated industry restructuring; (x) variations in winter heating degree-days from normal; (xi) changes in environmental requirements, pipeline operating requirements and cost of compliance; (xii) impact of potential increased regulatory oversight and compliance requirements due to financial, environmental, safety and system integrity laws and regulations; (xiii) failure to obtain timely rate relief for increasing operating or gas costs from regulatory authorities; (xiv) ability to raise debt or equity capital; (xv) impact of terrorism; (xvi) volatility in actuarially determined benefit costs; (xvii) impact of natural disasters on production and distribution facilities and the related effect on supply availability and price; and (xviii) new accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which could change the accounting treatment for certain transactions. The most significant risk factors include the following: High natural gas prices: The risk concerning high natural gas prices derives from other risks including the availability of adequate supply of natural gas, the impact of natural disasters on natural gas production and transportation, limitations on the exploration and development of natural gas wells on protected properties and demand from electric utilities of a cleaner, more environmental friendly fuel than coal for producing electricity. In the winter of 2005-06, the combination of the damage to natural gas production and transportation facilities attributable to Hurricane Katrina and demand for natural gas for electric generation resulted in a significant rise in natural gas prices. Since then, the price of natural gas has declined; however, prices still remain higher than historical levels. The Company has experienced some loss of industrial production consumption over the last few years due to price issues. If natural gas prices return to the higher levels experienced during the 2005-06 winter season, the Company may encounter a more than proportionate increase in bad debts and continued sales volume reductions attributable to conservation or customers converting to other energy or heating fuels. Warm winter weather: The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and relies upon the sale of natural gas primarily as a heating fuel. In addition, the Company’s non-gas margin rates are established based upon projected sales assuming weather utilizing a trailing 30-year period. In years where winter weather is warmer than the trailing 30-year period, customers use less natural gas as a heating fuel. This results in reduced sales and lower margins. The inclusion of a weather normalization adjustment (the “WNA”) factor as part of Roanoke Gas’ rate structure has partially mitigated the risk of a warm winter by protecting the Company from lost margins for weather in excess of 6 percent warmer than the 30 year normal. Based on fiscal 2007 results, the Company was at risk for approximately $500,000 for winter weather that was 6 percent or more warmer than the 30 year normal. 7 Regulation: Public utility operations, by their nature, are subject to regulation. As Roanoke Gas is granted sole authority to provide natural gas service to the Roanoke Valley and surrounding areas, the SCC regulates the rates the Company may charge its customers. If the SCC were to deny, disallow or otherwise significantly restrict the timely recovery of costs and a reasonable shareholder return, the earnings of the Company could be significantly impacted. Furthermore, major changes in operation and safety requirements could place an undue burden on the Company. 