Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Whitney must recognize and attempt to manage a number of risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and Whitney are: · credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; · market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; · liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; and · operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although Whitney generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of Whitney’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company's overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that are currently deemed immaterial, may also adversely affect Whitney's business, financial condition or results of operations. Whitney’s profitability depends in substantial part on net interest income and on our ability to manage interest rate risk. Whitney’s net interest income represented more than 75% of total revenues in each of the last five years. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other earning assets, and interest owed on deposits and borrowings. Numerous and often interrelated factors influence Whitney’s ability to maintain and grow net interest income, and a number of these factors are addressed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. One of the most important factors is changes in market interest rates and in the relationship between these rates for different financial instruments and products and at different maturities. Such changes are generally outside the control of management and cannot be predicted with certainty. Although management applies significant resources to anticipating these changes and to developing and executing strategies for operating in an environment of change, they cannot eliminate the possibility that interest rate risk will negatively affect our net interest income and lead to earnings volatility. For several years, Whitney has been positioned to be moderately asset sensitive over the near term, which would point to an expected improvement in net interest income in a rising rate environment and a reduction in net interest income as rates declined, holding other factors constant. Recent economic conditions have led to lower market rates toward the end of 2007 and into 2008, prompted in part by aggressive moves by the Federal Reserve as it attempts to counteract an economic slowdown associated in large part with the continued downturn in the housing market. These and possible further future rate reductions could have a negative impact on Whitney’s net interest income and net income. Whitney’s market area is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms, which may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Most of Whitney’s market area lies within the coastal region of the five states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. This is a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. The two strong hurricanes that struck in 2005 had a major impact on the greater New Orleans area, southwest Louisiana and the Mississippi coast, with lesser impacts on coastal Alabama and the western panhandle of Florida. Within its broader market area, the greater New 8 Orleans area is Whitney’s primary base of operations and is home to branches and relationship officers that service approximately 40% of the Bank’s total loans and 50% of total deposits at December 31, 2007. The 2005 storms caused widespread property damage, required temporary or permanent relocations of a large number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. Although the Bank was able to operate successfully in the aftermath of these storms, management carefully studied its risk posture and has taken a number of steps to reduce the Bank’s exposure to future natural disasters and make its disaster recovery plans and operating arrangement more resilient. Details of the storms’ impact on Whitney, both operationally and with respect to credit risk and liquidity, has been chronicled in Item 7 of the Company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K for 2006 and 2005 as well as in Item 2 of Part I of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed since the storms struck. Whitney cannot predict the extent to which future storms may impact its exposure to credit risk, operational risk or liquidity risk. The composition of Whitney’s loan portfolio could increase the volatility of our credit quality metrics and provisions for credit losses. Whitney’s loan portfolio contains individual relationships, primarily with commercial customers, with outstanding balances that are relatively large in relation to our asset size. Changes in the credit quality of one or a few of these relationships could lead to increased volatility in our reported totals of loans with above-normal credit risk and in our provisions for credit losses over time. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 