Risk Factors." These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. Factors that could affect our actual results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following: · Our ability to conduct successful clinical trials in a timely manner; · Our ability to raise capital to finance our operations; · Our ability to compete in the markets in which we expect to market our products; · Our ability to generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our products; · Our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our products from the FDA; · Our ability to ensure the safety and efficacy of our products; · Our ability to obtain and protect proprietary technologies; · Our ability to attract and retain talented employees; · Our ability to manufacture our products on a commercial-scale; · Our ability to meet our obligations under our license agreements; · The availability of third party reimbursement policies to sustain a market for our products; · The acceptance of our product candidates in the medical community; and · A variety of other risks common to our industry and development stage companies, including ongoing regulatory review, legislative and regulatory changes and public and investment community perceptions of our industry. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of these forward-looking statements. We do not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform prior statements to actual results. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Unless otherwise indicated, we use “Opexa,” “the Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this annual report to refer to the businesses of Opexa Therapeutics, Inc. We are a biopharmaceutical company developing autologous cellular therapies to treat several major illnesses, including multiple sclerosis (MS), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and diabetes. These therapies are based on our proprietary T-cell and adult stem cell technologies. The information discussed related to our product candidates is preliminary and investigative. Our product candidates are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). T-Cell Therapy We have an exclusive worldwide license from Baylor College of Medicine (or Baylor) to an individualized T-cell therapeutic vaccine, TovaxinÒ, which is in a United States (U.S.) FDA Phase IIb human clinical trial to evaluate its safety and effectiveness in treating MS. MS is the result of a person’s own T-cells attacking the myelin sheath that coats the nerve cells of the central nervous system (CNS). Tovaxin consists of attenuated patient-specific myelin reactive T-cells (MRTCs) against peptides from one or more of the primary proteins on the surface of the myelin sheath (myelin basic protein (MBP), proteolipid protein (PLP) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)). Patient-specific MRTCs are expanded in culture with specific peptides identified by our proprietary test of the patient’s peripheral blood. The cells are then attenuated by gamma irradiation, and returned to the patient as a subcutaneous injection. Although further testing is necessary, results from our initial human trials appear to indicate that these attenuated T-cells cause an immune response directed at the autoreactive T-cells in the patient’s body, resulting in a reduction in the level of harmful T-cells. We believe that our initial human trials suggest that Tovaxin safely induces the depletion and regulation of MRTCs, possibly stabilizing the disease, reducing the annualized relapse rate, and potentially improving the disability scores of patients. Patients treated in a 10-subject, open-label Phase I/II dose escalation clinical trial with Tovaxin have experienced minimal side effects and the “per protocol” analysis of patients treated with Tovaxin achieved a 90% reduction (p=0.0039) in annualized relapse rate (ARR). The group treated with the mid dose (30-45 x 106 attenuated T-cells) achieved a 100% reduction in ARR. The Phase IIb trial is being conducted with the mid dose. In November 2006, we enrolled the first patient in a double blind, placebo controlled, 150 patient Phase IIb clinical trial. We completed enrollment of all 150 patients in May 2007. In a one-year, 8-subject extension clinical trial of relapsing remitting (RRMS) and secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) subjects, the “per-protocol” analysis of Tovaxin therapy achieved a 92% (p=0.0078) reduction in annualized relapse rate (ARR) in subjects who received two treatment doses of 30-45 x 106 attenuated T-cells eight weeks apart and were monitored for an additional 44 weeks. Subjects in the extension study had previously been treated an average of approximately 5 years earlier at Baylor College of Medicine under the direction of the inventor of Tovaxin Jingwu Zhang, M.D., Ph.D with an early version of the T-cell vaccine. Preclinical Development Our Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) T-cell vaccination (TCV) technology is conceptually similar to Tovaxin. RA is an autoimmune T-cell-mediated disease in which pathogenic T-cells trigger an inflammatory autoimmune response of the synovial joints of the wrists, shoulders, knees, ankles and feet which causes pain, stiffness, and swelling around the joints and erosion into cartilage and bone. Our RA TCV technology allows the isolation of these pathogenic T-cells from synovial fluid drawn from a patient. We can expand and attenuate these T-cells in our laboratory. The attenuated T-cells can then be injected subcutaneously into patients with the goal of inducing an immune response directed at the Pathogenic T-cells in the patient’s body. We believe this immune response could reduce the level of pathogenic T-cells and potentially allow the reduction of joint swelling in RA patients. Stem Cell Therapy We have developed a proprietary adult stem cell technology to produce monocyte-derived stem cells (MDSC) from blood. These MDSC can be derived from a patient’s monocytes, expanded in our laboratories, and then administered to the same patient. We believe that because this is an autologous therapy, there should be no immunological problems. Normally, allogenic cells trigger host immune responses and require the use of anti-rejection drugs. 2 Our multi-potent stem cell is derived from peripheral blood monocytes which when cultured under defined conditions are able to further differentiate into several cellular lineages. Molecular biology and cellular analysis studies have shown that these MDSCs have specific markers that distinguish them from other stem cells. In addition these studies have also shown a time-dependence for the expression of these markers during the growth and differentiation of MDSCs. In vitro experiments with MDSCs have shown their capacity to differentiate as hematopoietic, epithelial, endothelial, endocrine and neuronal cells. Our main focus is the further development of this monocyte-derived stem cell (MDCS) technology as a platform for the in vitro generation of highly specialized cells for potential application in autologous cell therapy for patients with diseases such diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. Other Opportunities We may conduct basic research to determine the potential use of stem cells and differentiated cells in other indications, such as macular degeneration, stroke, myocardial infarction, wound healing and Parkinson’s disease. We will attempt to partner or sublicense some of these indications if they are not pursued for internal development. For those indications where we believe we can participate commercially, we also desire to partner in key commercial markets outside of the U.S. Our Products and Services Our T-cell Platform Multiple Sclerosis—Background In the U.S., approximately 400,000 people suffer from MS, a chronic progressive autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that is caused by myelin autoreactive T-cells progressively eroding the myelin that surrounds and insulates nerve fibers of the brain and spinal cord resulting in varying amounts of disability. Globally, there are approximately 2.5 million MS patients representing a drug market believed to be approximately $5 billion in 2005. The US markets accounted for slightly more than 50 percent of global MS sales in 2005, approximately $2.5 billion. MS remains a challenging autoimmune disease to treat because the pathophysiologic mechanisms are diverse, and the chronic, unpredictable course of the disease makes it difficult to determine whether the favorable effects of short-term treatment will be sustained. Therapies that are easy to use and can safely prevent or stop the progression of disease represent the greatest unmet need in MS. In recent years, the understanding of MS pathogenesis has evolved to comprise an initial, T-cell-mediated inflammatory activity followed by selective demyelination (erosion of the myelin coating of the nerve fibers) and then neurodegeneration. The discovery of disease-relevant immune responses has accelerated the development of targeted therapeutic products for the treatment of the early stages of MS. Some subjects, who have the appropriate genetic background, have increased susceptibility for the in vivo activation and expansion of myelin autoreactive T-cells. These myelin autoreactive T-cells may remain dormant, but at some point they are activated in the periphery, thus enabling them to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and infiltrate the healthy tissue of the brain and spinal cord. The cascade of pathogenic events leads to demyelination of axons, which causes nerve impulse transmissions to diffuse into the tissue resulting in disability to the subject. Current Therapy for Multiple Sclerosis Current MS disease modifying drugs on the market are mostly palliative and generally work by modulation or suppression of the immune system. These therapies for MS are dominated by three forms of interferon that when used as therapies, require frequent subcutaneous or intramuscular injections (Avonex, Betaseron and Rebif). Copaxone is an immunomodulator that is administered daily. Novantrone (mitoxanthrone) is an immunosuppressive drug that can only be given four times per year with a lifetime limit of 8 to 12 doses. All of the current therapies only claim to slow the progression of MS and present significant patient compliance challenges because of the dosing schedule, limited decrease in relapse rate and side effects profile The interferon formulations produce severe flu-like symptoms, injection site reactions, infection and neutralizing antibodies (ranging from 5% to 45%) that limit the efficacy of treatment. Copaxone causes significant injection site reactions; while Novantrone causes infections, bone marrow suppression, nausea, hair thinning, bladder infections, and mouth sores. These drugs must be administered daily to weekly. Tysabri®, a selective adhesion molecule inhibitor (an alpha 4 integrin antagonist), represents another class of MS drugs that works by preventing immune system cells from crossing the BBB and from moving into the central nervous system (CNS). Tysabri® requires a once per month infusion and has been reintroduced to the market after being originally withdrawn in 2005 based on safety concerns over several patient deaths due to a virally mediated brain inflammation. 3 Tovaxin for Multiple Sclerosis We believe that Tovaxin works selectively on the myelin autoreactive T-cells by harnessing the body’s natural immune defense system and feedback mechanisms to deplete these T-cells and induce favorable immune regulatory responses by rebalancing the immune system. Tovaxin is manufactured by taking the MRTCs from the blood, expanding them to a therapeutic dose ex-vivo, and attenuating them with gamma irradiation to prevent DNA replication. These attenuated MRTCs are then injected subcutaneously into the body in large quantities. The body recognizes specific T-cell receptor molecules of these MRTCs as foreign and mounts an immune response reaction against them, not only destroying the injected attenuated MRTCs, but also the circulating, myelin autoreactive T-cells carrying the peptide-specific T-cell receptor molecules. In addition, T-cell activation molecules on the surface of the activated MRTCs used as vaccine induce favorable immune regulatory responses, which promote anti-inflammatory responses. Because the therapy uses an individual’s own cells, the only directly identifiable side effect, observed thus far, is injection site reaction in a small percentage of the patients. These reactions are minor and generally clear within 24 hours. We believe that this technology platform may have applications in other T-cell mediated diseases such as Crohn’s disease, psoriasis, RA and Type 1diabetes. Tovaxin Manufacturing We manufacture our TCV therapy in our own Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) facility. The TCV technology used to produce Tovaxin is similar to that of traditional microbial vaccine technology, where the pathogen (or the attenuated derivative) is used to derive the protective antigens necessary to induce protective immune responses. In preparing the Tovaxin for a patient, the myelin autoreactive T-cells causing the disease are taken from the blood, specifically identified, and expanded ex vivo by incubating these T-cells with selected peptides in the presence of antigen-presenting cells and growth factors. Myelin-peptide reactive T-cells are grown to therapeutic levels and cryopreserved. Prior to use, the MRTCs are expanded, formulated, and attenuated (by irradiation) to render them incompetent to replicate but viable for therapy. These attenuated T-cells are administered in a defined schedule of subcutaneous injections. We have shown that a single draw of a 500 ml bag of patient blood is sufficient to provide a full year’s therapeutic regimen of Tovaxin. Clinical Development of Tovaxin Tovaxin is currently in a Phase IIb clinical trial. Patients treated in our Phase I/II open-label studies with Tovaxin have experienced minimal side effects, an approximate 90% average reduction in annualized relapse rate and improvements in their Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), a scoring method used to measure the disability of MS patients. Tovaxin Phase IIb Clinical Trial The Phase IIb trial, entitled “A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of Subcutaneous Tovaxin in Subjects with Clinically Isolated Syndrome or Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis”, is a multi-site double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled 150 (100 treated, 50 placebo) patient trial. The trial is being conducted at 33 sites in the U.S. The primary endpoint will be brain lesion evaluation (the total number of gadolinium-enhancing lesions) via MRI with a secondary endpoint being annual relapse rate. This trial is designed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of Tovaxin. We completed enrollment in May 2007 and expect top-line results at the end of the third quarter of 2008. 4 Preclinical Development Our Adult Stem Cell Platform Stem Cells—Background Stem cells are undifferentiated primary cells that have the potential to become any tissue or organ of the body. They hold therapeutic promise for the development of effective treatments and possibly cure for various diseases. The current stem cell research efforts have been divided between embryonic and tissue specific adult stem cells as potential therapeutic progenitor cells. Recent experiments with embryonic stem (ES) cells have demonstrated that these highly proliferative, pluripotent cells can differentiate into pancreatic-like b-cells. The major problem with ES cells is their pluripotency and risk that these cells, once transplanted, could form tumors. Given that as well as the political and ethical issues surrounding the use of ES cells, adult tissue specific stem cells have become attractive as a potential cell therapeutic. Adult tissue-specific stem cells have advantages over ES cells; first, these cells can be isolated from a more manageable source such as bone marrow or other tissues; second, they proliferate in a controlled fashion and without the likelihood of tumorogenicity, and third, they can be used in an autologous setting and avoid the potential for rejection which exists for allogenic use of stem cells. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSC’s), present in the bone marrow and precursors to all blood cells, are currently the only type of stem cells commonly used for therapy. Doctors have been transferring HSC’s in bone marrow transplants for more than 40 years. Advanced techniques for collecting or “harvesting” HSC’s are now used to treat leukemia, lymphoma and several inherited blood disorders. The clinical potential of stem cells has also been demonstrated in the treatment of other human diseases, including diabetes and advanced kidney cancer. However, these new therapies have been offered only to a very limited number of patients using adult stem cells. Stem cell therapies have technical, ethical and legal hurdles to overcome before they will be able to be used for tissue and organ repair. A significant hurdle to most uses of stem cells is that scientists do not yet fully understand the signals that turn specific genes on and off to influence the differentiation of the stem cell. Therefore, scientists will have to be able to precisely control the differentiation of stem cells into the specific cell type to be used in a therapy. Current knowledge of the signals controlling differentiation falls well short of being able to mimic these conditions precisely to consistently have identical differentiated cells for each specified use. To realize the promise of novel cell-based therapies for such pervasive and debilitating diseases such as diabetes and kidney cancer, scientists must be able to easily and reproducibly manipulate stem cells so that they possess the necessary characteristics for successful differentiation, transplantation and engraftment. To be useful for transplant purposes, stem cells must be reproducibly made to: proliferate extensively and generate sufficient quantities of tissue, differentiate into the desired cell type(s), survive in the recipient after transplant, integrate into the surrounding tissue after transplant, function appropriately for the duration of the recipient’s life, avoid harming the recipient in any way, and avoid the problem of immune rejection. There is no assurance that any commercialized cell-based therapies will ever be developed. Therapies Utilizing Our Stem Cell Platform We have developed a proprietary adult stem cell technology to produce monocyte-derived stem cells (MDSC) from blood. These MDSC can be derived from a patient’s monocytes, expanded ex vivo, and then administered to the same patient. We believe that because this is an autologous therapy, there should be no allogenic rejection issues. Normally, allogenic cells are deleted by host immune responses and require the use of anti-rejection drugs. Our multi-potent stem cell is derived from peripheral blood monocytes which when cultured under defined conditions are able to further differentiate into several cellular lineages. Molecular biology and cellular analysis studies have shown that these MDSCs have specific markers that distinguish them from other stem cells. In addition these studies have also shown a time-dependence for the expression of these markers during the growth and differentiation of MDSCs. In vitro experiments with MDSCs have shown their capacity to differentiate towards hematopoietic, epithelial, endothelial, endocrine and neuronal cells. Our main focus is the further development of this monocyte-derived stem cell technology as a platform for the in vitro generation of highly specialized cells for potential application in autologous cell therapy for patients with diseases such as diabetes mellitus and cardiovascular disease. 5 Working either alone or in conjunction with strategic partners, we may utilize these MDSC from the same patient to attempt to develop a therapy which may cause autologous tissue or organ repair. Our initial internal therapeutic target is diabetes mellitus. Other therapeutic targets would be pursued through early-stage licensing or strategic alliances. The diabetes program is currently in pre-clinical development. Pancreatic Islet Cell Development Diabetes is a disease characterized by the failure or loss of pancreatic b-cells to generate sufficient levels of the hormone insulin required to maintain normal healthy glucose levels. Type 1 diabetes is caused by the complete loss of pancreatic b-cells when the body’s own immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys a person’s b-cells. While for Type 2 diabetes the causes are far more complicated and poorly understood, the results of the disease are similar in that often the b-cells fail to generate sufficient amounts of insulin to maintain normal healthy glucose levels. The loss of insulin results in an increase in blood glucose levels that may eventually lead to the development of premature cardiovascular disease, stroke, and kidney failure. Currently there is no permanent cure for diabetes; however, recent clinical islet cell transplantations have shown good success in restoring long-term endogenous insulin production and glycemic stability in subjects who have Type 1 diabetes mellitus with unstable baseline control. Persistent islet function without injected insulin dependence provides considerable benefit. Current cell transplant therapy for the treatment of diabetes is limited by an inadequate supply of insulin-producing cells. Cadaveric sources are limited and up to three pancreata are required to obtain clinically significant quantities of b-cells for one patient. The identification of adult human stem cells provides a new prospect for obtaining a sufficient number of insulin-producing b-cells for transplantation. Using our technology a single blood draw may be adequate to produce clinical quantities of b-cells for a patient. In vitro experiments with MDSC have shown their capacity to differentiate toward a wide variety of cell types including pancreatic b-like cells. These cells aggregate into clusters resembling pancreatic Islets of Langerhans termed monocyte derived islets (MDI). The cluster aggregates show endocrine gene expression. Biochemical assays have demonstrated that MDI can synthesize and secrete significant amounts of insulin during their growth and respond in a glucose-dependent manner. In addition, MDI can be stimulated or repressed by the addition of agonists or antagonists of insulin in vitro. These stem cells are important because of our ability to easily and cost effectively derive them from an individual’s circulating monocytes, expand them and administer them back into the same patient. This autologous approach provides a method to overcome any rejection issues and the need to suppress the immune system, which are often associated with current transplantations. Stem Cell Pre-Clinical and Clinical Development We are conducting pre-clinical studies to demonstrate proof of concept and method of delivery in preparation for an IND (Investigational New Drug) submission to the FDA. Licenses, Patents and Proprietary Rights We believe that proprietary protection of our technologies is critical to the development of our business. We intend to continue to protect our proprietary intellectual property through patents and other appropriate means. We rely upon trade-secret protection for some confidential and proprietary information and take active measures to control access to that information. We currently have non-disclosure agreements with all of our employees, consultants, vendors, advisory board members and contract research organizations. Our intellectual property strategy includes developing proprietary technology for the sourcing, scale up, manufacturing, and storage of T cells and multipotent adult stem cells and the use of these cells in multiple therapeutic applications. This strategy will include expanding on technologies in-licensed to us as well as in-licensing additional technologies through collaborations with universities and biotech companies. We have exclusive, worldwide licenses to certain patents and patent applications that relate to our T-cell technology and our multipotent adult stem cell technology. 6 T-Cell Therapy Intellectual Property Our T-cell technology is based on discoveries made by Dr. Jingwu Zang at the Baylor College of Medicine in Houston. We have an exclusive, worldwide license from Baylor College of Medicine to develop and commercialize three technology areas for MS, namely T-cell vaccination, peptides, and diagnostics. Under the License Agreement with Baylor College of Medicine, we have rights to a total of 11 patents (2 U.S. and 9 foreign) and 80 patent applications (6 U.S. and 74 foreign). The license was granted to us by Baylor in exchange for common stock in Opexa Pharmaceuticals, a company we acquired in November 2004. The license requires us to pay royalties on sales of products covered by the license. We have filed additional patent applications related to T-Cell vaccination for MS. Rheumatoid Arthritis Therapy Intellectual Property We have an exclusive worldwide license for the intellectual property rights and research results of an autologous T cell vaccine for RA from the Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences (SIBS), Chinese Academy of Sciences of the People’s Republic of China. We made a one time $125,000 license payment and agreed to pay a royalty on net sales of products covered by the license. We have filed additional patent applications related to T-Cell vaccination for RA. Stem Cell Therapy Intellectual Property We have an exclusive, worldwide license from the University of Chicago, through its prime contractor relationship with Argonne National Laboratory, to a patent application related to the development of adult multipotent stem cells from monocytes isolated from adult human peripheral blood. The technology was discovered and developed at the Argonne National Laboratory, a U.S. Department of Energy Laboratory. Pursuant to the license we have issued a total of 53,462 shares of our common stock and paid $232,742 to the University of Chicago. We will owe milestone payments upon demonstration of efficacy in Phase II clinical studies, submission for product approval to the FDA and approval of licensed products totaling $1,350,000. We will also pay royalties on net sales of products covered by the license. We have filed additional patent applications related to the process of obtaining monocyte-derived stem cells. In addition, we have filed a patent application for the process of differentiation of MDSCs into monocyte-derived islets which function like pancreatic islet cells. Our Product Pipeline Multiple Sclerosis Therapy Tovaxin is a vaccine approach for treating MS, in that it induces the body’s immune system to attack the MRTCs that we believe are responsible for destroying the myelin sheath coating of the axons in the central nervous system. We believe that the depletion and regulation of the MRTCs may stop progression of multiple sclerosis. Tovaxin is currently in a Phase IIb clinical trial. We completed enrollment of this trial in May, 2007 and expect to release top-line data from this trial at the end of the third quarter of 2008. Rheumatoid Arthritis Therapy Our Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) T-cell vaccination (TCV) technology is conceptually similar to Tovaxin. RA is an autoimmune T-cell-mediated disease in which pathogenic T-cells trigger an inflammatory autoimmune response of the synovial joints of the wrists, shoulders, knees, ankles and feet which causes pain, stiffness, and swelling around the joints. This technology is in preclinical development. Diabetes Stem Cell Therapy We believe that there are approximately 20.8 million people in the U.S. who have diabetes. More than 1 million of these people have Type 1 diabetes mellitus. Among adults with diagnosed diabetes, approximately 31% take insulin to control their disease. Research studies have found that improved glycemic control benefits people with either Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes. Islet transplantation using Opexa’s proprietary monocyte-derived islet cell may offer the potential to improve glycemic control in a subgroup of patients with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes mellitus who are disabled by refractory hypoglycemia. We are in preclinical development in preparation for an IND submission to the FDA. 7 Other Opportunities We intend to conduct basic research to determine the potential use of our stem cells in other indications such as macular degeneration, heart attack, and Parkinson’s disease. Liver cells (hepatocytes) derived from our stem cells may be valuable across the biopharmaceutical industry to test for drug toxicity or to help cure liver diseases. We intend to partner or sublicense some of these indications if they are not pursued for internal development. For those indications where we believe it can participate commercially, we will possibly take partners in key commercial markets outside of the United States. Research Collaborations We anticipate that from time to time in the future we will enter into collaborative research agreements with other academic and research institutions. We will use such agreements to enhance our research capabilities. Typically, in the industry, such agreements provide the industry partner with rights to license the intellectual property created through the collaboration. We may also enter into collaborative research agreements with other pharmaceutical companies when we believe such collaboration will support the development and commercialization of our technology. Commercialization Through Third Parties We anticipate that we will grant sublicenses for certain applications of our technologies. We believe that by sublicensing some of the rights to our technology to pharmaceutical companies and other third parties, we will be able to more efficiently develop some applications of our technologies. We currently do not have any sublicenses. Competition The development of therapeutic agents for human disease is intensely competitive. Major pharmaceutical companies currently offer a number of pharmaceutical products to treat MS, heart attack, stroke, Parkinson’s disease, diabetes, liver diseases, arthritis and other diseases for which our technologies may be applicable. Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are investigating new drugs and therapeutic approaches for the same purposes, which may achieve new efficacy profiles, extend the therapeutic window for such products, alter the prognosis of these diseases, or prevent their onset. We believe that our products, when and if successfully developed, will compete with these products principally on the basis of improved and extended efficacy and safety and their overall economic benefit to the health care system. We expect competition to increase. We believe that our most significant competitors will be fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies. Smaller companies may also be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. Some of our primary competitors in the current treatment of and in the development of treatments for MS include Biogen-Idec, Elan, Serono, Aventis, Teva, and Bayer/Schering AG. Some of our primary competitors in the development of stem cell therapies include Aastrom Biosciences, Geron, Gamida-Cell Ltd, Stem Cells Inc., Cellerant Therapeutics, and Osiris Therapeutics. Many of these competitors have significant products in development that could be competitive with our potential products. Sales and Marketing We intend to develop a sales force to market our MS cell therapy products in the U.S. Given the concentration of MS treatment among a relatively small number of specialized neurologists, we believe that a modest size sales force would be sufficient to market the MS products. We plan to partner with large biotech and pharmaceutical companies for the marketing and sales of our MS and RA T-cell products outside the U.S. and for our stem cell therapy products. Government Regulation Our research and development activities and the future manufacturing and marketing of our potential products are, and will be, subject to regulation for safety and efficacy by a number of governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. 8 In the U.S., pharmaceuticals, biologicals and medical devices are subject to FDA regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended, and the Public Health Service Act, as amended, the regulations promulgated thereunder, and other Federal and state statutes and regulations govern, among other things, the testing in human subjects, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, export, record keeping, approval, marketing, advertising and promotion of our potential products. Product development and approval within this regulatory framework takes a number of years and involves significant uncertainty combined with the expenditure of substantial resources. FDA Approval We will need to obtain FDA approval of any therapeutic product we plan to market and sell. The FDA will only grant marketing approval if it determines that a product is safe and effective. The testing and approval process will require substantial time, effort and expense. The steps required before our potential products may be marketed in the U.S. include: Preclinical Laboratory and Animal Tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluation of the product and animal studies in specific disease models to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product and our formulation as well as the quality and consistency of the manufacturing process. Submission to the FDA of an Application for an Investigational New Drug Exemption, or IND, Which Must Become Effective Before U.S. Human Clinical Trials May Commence. The results of the preclinical tests are submitted to the FDA as part of marketing approval authorization, and the IND becomes effective 30 days following its receipt by the FDA, as long as there are no questions, requests for delay or objections from the FDA. The sponsor of an IND must keep the FDA informed during the duration of the study through required amendments and reports, including adverse event reports. Adequate and Well-Controlled Human Clinical Trials to Establish the Safety and Efficacy of the Product. Clinical trials, which test the safety and efficacy of the product in humans, are conducted in accordance with protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used to monitor safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Any product administered in a U.S. clinical trial must be manufactured in accordance with Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP or GMP). Each protocol is submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. The protocol for each clinical study must be approved by an independent Institutional Review Board, or IRB, at the institution at which the study is conducted and the informed consent of all participants must be obtained. The IRB will consider, among other things, the existing information on the product, ethical factors, the safety of human subjects, the potential benefits of the therapy and the possible liability of the institution. Clinical development is traditionally conducted in three sequential phases, which may overlap: • In Phase I, products are typically introduced into healthy human subjects or into selected patient populations (i.e., patients with a serious disease or condition under study, under physician supervision, as may be the case with our potential products) to test for adverse reactions, dosage tolerance, absorption and distribution, metabolism, excretion and clinical pharmacology. • Phase II involves studies in a limited population of patients with the disease or condition under study to (i) determine the efficacy of the product for specific targeted indications and populations, (ii) determine optimal dosage and dosage tolerance and (iii) identify possible and common adverse effects and safety risks. (Phase II may divided into Phase IIa and Phase IIb studies to address these issues.) When a dose is chosen and a candidate product is found to have preliminary evidence of effectiveness, and to have an acceptable safety profile in Phase II evaluations, Phase III trials begin • Phase III trials are undertaken to develop additional safety and effectiveness information from an expanded patient population, generally at multiple study sites. This information obtained is used to develop a better understanding of the risks and benefits of the product, and to determine appropriate labeling for use. Based on clinical trial progress and results, the FDA may request changes or may require discontinuance of the trials at any time if significant safety issues arise. 9 Submission to the FDA of Marketing Authorization Applications and FDA Review. The results of the preclinical studies and clinical studies are submitted to the FDA as part of marketing approval authorization applications such as New Drug Applications (NDAs) or Biologics License Applications (BLAs). The FDA will evaluate such applications for the demonstration of safety and effectiveness. A BLA is required for biological products subject to licensure under the Public Health Service Act and must show that the product is safe, pure and potent. In addition to preclinical and clinical data, the BLA must contain other elements such as manufacturing materials, stability data, samples and labeling. FDA approval of a BLA (granted by issuance of a license) is required prior to commercial sale or shipment of a biologic, A BLA shall only be approved once the FDA examines the product and inspects the manufacturing establishment to assure conformity to the BLA and all applicable regulations and standards for biologics. The Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research has regulatory responsibility for review of biologics including cellular products and human cells, tissues and cellular and tissue-based products (HCT/Ps), while the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research is responsible for review of certain therapeutic biological products. The time for approval may vary widely depending on the specific product and disease to be treated, and a number of factors, including the risk/benefit profile identified in clinical trials, the availability of alternative treatments, and the severity of the disease. Additional animal studies or clinical trials may be requested during the FDA review period, which might add to the review time. The FDA’s marketing approval for a product for the treatment of a specific disease or condition in specified populations in certain clinical circumstances, as described on the approved labeling. The approved use is known as the “indication.” After the FDA approves a product for the initial indication, further clinical trials may be required to gain approval for the use of the product for additional indications. The FDA may also require post-marketing testing (Phase IV studies) and surveillance to monitor for adverse effects, which could involve significant expense, or may elect to grant only conditional approvals. Interaction with the FDA During the Application and Review Process. Generally, early interaction and ongoing communication with the FDA can facilitate the testing and approval process by helping to clarify FDA expectations, obtain FDA guidance and directions, and resolve disputed issues. In addition, expectations can be formalized in a “Special Protocol Assessment,” in which the FDA provides official evaluation and guidance on proposed protocols for pivotal Phase III clinical trials. An SPA documents the FDA’s agreement that the design and plan analysis of the Phase III study adequately addresses objectives in support of a regulatory submission such as a BLA. Ongoing Compliance Requirements Even after product approval or licensure, there are a number of ongoing FDA regulatory requirements, including: • Registration and listing; • Regulatory submissions relating to changes in an NDA or BLA (such as the manufacturing process or labeling) and annual reports; • Adverse event reporting; • Compliance with advertising and promotion restrictions that relate to drugs and biologics; • Compliance with GMP and biological product standards (subject to FDA inspection of facilities to determine compliance); • Compliance with “Good Tissue Practice” regulations, as applicable. (As defined by regulation, “human cell, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products” (HCT/P), which are subject to additional regulatory requirement, include stem cells that are progenitors of blood cells; however, the FDA makes no explicit statement in the regulations regarding the inclusion of other types of stem cells.) 10 Other Regulations In addition to safety regulations enforced by the FDA, we are also subject to regulations under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Environmental Protection Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act and other present and potential future foreign, Federal, state and local regulations. For instance, Product manufacturing establishments located in certain states also may be subject to separate regulatory and licensing requirements. Outside the U.S., we will be subject to regulations that govern the import of drug products from the U.S. or other manufacturing sites and foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials and marketing approval for our products. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursements vary widely from country to country. In particular, the European Union is revising its regulatory approach to high tech products, and representatives from the U.S., Japan and the European Union are in the process of harmonizing and making more uniform the regulations for the registration of pharmaceutical products in these three markets. Research and Development Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 were approximately $13.1 million, mainly reflecting the costs of the Phase I/II and Phase IIb clinical trials for Tovaxin and research and development in support of pre-clinical diabetes stem cell therapies. Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2006, were approximately $7.9 million. Organizational History We are a development-stage company and have a limited operating history. Our predecessor company for financial reporting purposes was formed on January 22, 2003 to acquire rights to our adult stem cell technology. In November 2004 we acquired Opexa Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its MS treatment technology. We are still developing all of our technology, and to date, we have not generated any revenues from our operations. As we continue to execute our operations plan, we expect our development and operating expenses to increase. Stock Split In June 2006, our shareholders approved a one for ten reverse common stock split. All share, par share and par value amounts (except authorized shares) have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the split. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had 40 full time employees. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. None of our employees is represented by a union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Available Information We are subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, under which we file periodic reports, proxy and information statements and other information with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Copies of the reports, proxy statements and other information may be examined without charge at the Public Reference Room of the SEC, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, or on the Internet at http://www.sec.gov. Copies of all or a portion of such materials can be obtained from the Public Reference Room of the SEC upon payment of prescribed fees. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information about the Public Reference Room. Financial and other information about Opexa is available on our website (www.opexatherapeutics.com). Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. We make available on our website, free of charge, copies of our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such material electronically or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. Copies are available in print to any Opexa shareholder upon request in writing to Attention: Investor Relations, Opexa Therapeutics, Inc., 2635 N. Crescent Ridge Drive, The Woodlands, TX 77381. 11 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business The following factors affect our business and the industry in which we operate. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or which we currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on our business. If any of the matters discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business is at an early stage of development. Our business is at an early stage of development. We do not have any products in late-stage clinical trials or on the market. We are still in the early stages of identifying and conducting research on potential products. Only one of our products has progressed to the stage of being studied in human clinical trials in the United States. Our potential products will require regulatory approval prior to marketing in the United States and other countries. Obtaining such approval will require significant research and development and preclinical and clinical testing. We may not be able to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to enter clinical trials for any of our product candidates, or to commercialize any products. Our product candidates may prove to have undesirable and unintended side effects or other characteristics adversely affecting their safety, efficacy or cost-effectiveness that could prevent or limit their use. Any product using any of our technology may fail to provide the intended therapeutic benefits, or achieve therapeutic benefits equal to or better than the standard of treatment at the time of testing or production. We have a history of operating losses and do not expect to be profitable in the near future. We have not generated any profits since our entry into the biotechnology business, have no source of revenues, and have incurred significant operating losses. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future and, as we increase our research and development activities, we expect our operating losses to increase significantly. We do not have any sources of revenues and may not have any in the foreseeable future. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations and develop our products and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We need to obtain significant amounts of additional capital to develop our products and continue our business. The capital may come from many sources, including equity and/or debt financings, license arrangements, grants and/or collaborative research arrangements. As of December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.6 million. In February 2008 we completed a public financing of common stock and warrants. The net proceeds to Opexa, after underwriter discounts and commissions but before expenses was approximately $6.8 million. Our current burn rate is approximately $900,000 per month. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our working capital needs beyond early fourth quarter of 2008. We must rely upon third-party debt or equity funding and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any funding effort. The failure to raise such funds will necessitate the curtailment or ceasing of operations and impact the completion of our clinical trials. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for capital needs in 2008 and beyond; • scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; • our ability to establish, enforce and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • our progress with preclinical development and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and • the number and type of product candidates that we pursue. 12 We do not have any committed sources of capital, although we have issued and outstanding warrants that, if exercised, would result in an equity capital raising transaction. Additional financing through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Further, if additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business prospects. We have a “going-concern qualification” in our certifying accountant’s financial statement report, which may make capital raising more difficult and may require us to scale back or cease operations. The report of our independent auditors in respect of the 2007 fiscal year, included elsewhere in this annual report includes a going concern qualification which indicates an absence of obvious or reasonably assured sources of future funding that will be required by us to maintain ongoing operations. Although we have successfully funded Opexa, to date, by attracting additional investors in our equity, there is no assurance that our capital raising efforts will be able to attract the additional capital needed to sustain our operations. The going concern qualification from our auditors may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funding for operations, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. We will need regulatory approvals for all of our product candidates which require that all of our product candidates be tested in clinical trials. Clinical trials are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Our products may fail to achieve necessary safety and efficacy endpoints during clinical trials in which case we will be unable to generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our products. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements, and must otherwise comply with federal, state and local requirements and policies of the medical institutions where they are conducted. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: • FDA or Institutional Review Board (IRB) objection to proposed protocols; • discussions or disagreement with the FDA over the adequacy of trial design to potentially demonstrate effectiveness, and subsequent design modifications; • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues and related adjustments; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • product quality problems (e.g., sterility or purity) • challenges to patient monitoring and data collection during or after treatment (for example, patients’ failure to return for follow-up visits); and • failure of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition we or the FDA (based on its authority over clinical studies) may delay a proposed investigation or suspend clinical trials in progress at any time if it appears that the study may pose significant risks to the study participants or other serious deficiencies are identified. Prior to approval of our product the FDA must determine that the data demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. 13 Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for certain of our product candidates, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of our products will be limited by any failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We are dependent upon our management team and a small number of employees. Our business strategy is dependent upon the skills and knowledge of our management team. If any critical employee leaves, we may be unable on a timely basis to hire suitable replacements to effectively operate our business. We also operate with a very small number of employees and thus have little or no backup capability for their activities. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the loss of a number of other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on contract research organizations and other contractors for clinical testing and for certain research and development activities, thus the timing and adequacy of our clinical trials and such research activities are, to a certain extent, beyond our control. The nature of clinical trials and our business strategy requires us to rely on contract research organizations, independent clinical investigators and other third party service providers to assist us with clinical testing and certain research and development activities. For example, our current Phase IIb clinical study of Tovaxin for MS is being managed by the contract research organization PharmaNet, LLC. As a result, our success is dependent upon the success of these outside parties in performing their responsibilities. Although we believe our contractors are economically motivated to perform on their contractual obligations, we cannot directly control the adequacy and timeliness of the resources and expertise applied to these activities by our contractors. If our contractors do not perform their activities in an adequate or timely manner, the development and commercialization of our drug candidates could be delayed. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on three licenses from third parties. These third party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology platform could be severely adversely affected. Our current research and manufacturing facility is not large enough to manufacture future stem cell and T-cell therapies. We conduct our research and development in a 10,200 square foot facility in The Woodlands, Texas, which includes an approximately 800 square foot suite of three rooms for the manufacture of T-cell therapies which we through Phase III trials of Tovaxin as a therapy for MS. Our current facility is not large enough to conduct commercial-scale manufacturing operations. We will need to expand further our manufacturing staff and facility, obtain a new facility or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with future drug production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We do not have funds available for building a manufacturing facility, and we may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our commercial-scale manufacturing. We may arrange with third parties for the manufacture of our future products. However, our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing our future products. If we employ third-party manufacturers, we will not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance by these third parties with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We further may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. 14 Patents obtained by other persons may result in infringement claims against us that are costly to defend and which may limit our ability to use the disputed technologies and prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of potential products. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have been issued patents relating to cell therapy, stem cells, T-cells, and other technologies potentially relevant to or required by our expected products. We cannot predict which, if any, of such applications will issue as patents or the claims that might be allowed. We are aware that a number of companies have filed applications relating to stem cells. We are also aware of a number of patent applications and patents claiming use of stem cells and other modified cells to treat disease, disorder or injury. If third party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by either our licensed technology or other technology required to make and use our potential products and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. If we are unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to develop some products commercially. There can be no assurance that we will not be obliged to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third party patents. Patent litigation is very expensive and could consume substantial resources and create significant uncertainties. An adverse outcome in such a suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease using such technology. If we are unable to obtain future patents and other proprietary rights our operations will be significantly harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon obtaining patent protection relating to our technologies. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. The coverage sought in a patent application can be denied or significantly reduced before or after the patent is issued. Consequently, we do not know whether the patent applications for our technology will result in the issuance of patents, or if any future patents will provide significant protection or commercial advantage or will be circumvented by others. Since patent applications are secret until the applications are published (usually eighteen months after the earliest effective filing date), and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that the inventors of our licensed patents were the first to make the inventions covered by the patent applications or that the licensed patent applications were the first to be filed for such inventions. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from the patent applications or, if issued, that such patents will be of commercial benefit to us, afford us adequate protection from competing products, or not be challenged or declared invalid. Our competition includes fully integrated biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical companies that have significant advantages over us. The markets for therapeutic stem cell products, multiple sclerosis products, and rheumatoid arthritis products are highly competitive. Our most significant competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies. These companies have significantly greater capital resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we currently do. Many of these potential competitors are further along in the process of product development and also operate large, company-funded research and development programs. As a result, our competitors may develop more competitive or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we are able to achieve. Competitive products may render any products or product candidates that we develop obsolete. 15 The market for our products will be heavily dependent on third party reimbursement policies. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend on the extent to which government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other third party payors will pay for our products and related treatments. Reimbursement by third party payors depends on a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that use of the product is safe and effective, not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Reimbursement may not be available or maintained for any of our product candidates. If we do not obtain approvals for adequate third party reimbursements, we may not be able to establish or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Any limits on reimbursement from third party payors may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. Restrictive and extensive government regulation could slow or hinder our production of a cellular product. The research and development of stem cell therapies is subject to and restricted by extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to continue our research and development, which would hinder our ability to manufacture or market any future product. Even after granting regulatory approval the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. To be successful, our product candidates must be accepted by the health care community, which can be very slow to adopt or unreceptive to new technologies and products. Our product candidates, if approved for marketing, may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide to not accept and utilize these products. The product candidates that we are attempting to develop represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of more conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; • our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. If the health care community does not accept our products for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, our business would be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Securities There is currently a limited market for our securities, and any trading market that exists in our securities may be highly illiquid and may not reflect the underlying value of our net assets or business prospects. Although our common stock and Series E warrants are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is currently a limited market for our securities and there can be no assurance that an improved market will ever develop. Investors are cautioned not to rely on the possibility that an active trading market may develop. As our share price is volatile, we may be or become the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities or the reporting of unfavorable news, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our securities experience adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. 16 Our “blank check” preferred stock could be issued to prevent a business combination not desired by management or our current majority shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors without shareholder approval. Our preferred stock could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in our control and as a method of preventing shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public or private offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on the common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of the our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 