Item 1A. Risk Factors. The Company is exposed to various risks and uncertainties that may affect the operations, performance, development and results of the Company’s business including the following: (i) failure to earn on a consistent basis an adequate return on invested capital; (ii) increasing expenses and labor costs and labor availability; (iii) price competition from alternative fuels; (iv) volatility in the price and availability of natural gas; (v) uncertainty in the projected rate of growth of natural gas requirements in the Company’s service area; (vi) general economic conditions both locally and nationally; (vii) increases in interest rates; (viii) increased customer delinquencies and conservation efforts resulting from high fuel costs and/or colder weather; (ix) developments in electricity and natural gas deregulation and associated industry restructuring; (x) variations in winter heating degree-days from normal; (xi) changes in environmental requirements, pipeline operating requirements and cost of compliance; (xii) impact of potential increased governmental oversight and compliance costs due the Sarbanes-Oxley law; (xiii) failure to obtain timely rate relief for increasing operation or gas costs from regulatory authorities; (xiv) ability to raise debt or equity capital; (xv) impact of uncertainties in the Middle East and related terrorism issues, and (xvi) new accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, which could change the accounting treatment for certain transactions. The most significant risk factors include the following: High natural gas prices: The combination of the damage to natural gas production and transportation facilities attributable to recent hurricanes and increasing demands for natural gas for electric generation have resulted in a significant rise in natural gas prices. If natural gas prices remain at these unprecedented levels, the Company may encounter a more than proportionate increase in bad debts and sales volume reductions attributable to conservation or customers converting to other energy or heating fuels. Warm winter weather: The Company’s business is seasonal in nature and relies upon the sale of natural gas primarily as a heating fuel. In addition, the Company’s non-gas margin rates are established based upon projected sales assuming 6 weather utilizing a trailing 30-year period. In years where winter weather is warmer than the trailing 30 year period, the demand for natural gas as a heating fuel declines resulting in reduced sales and lower margins. The risk of warm winter weather has been partially mitigated due to the inclusion of a weather normalization adjustment (“WNA”) factor as part of Roanoke Gas Company’s rate structure. The WNA operates based on a weather occurrence band around the most recent 30-year temperature average. The weather band provides approximately a 6 percent range around normal weather, whereby if the number of heating-degree days fall within approximately 6 percent above or below the 30-year average, no adjustments are made. However, if the number of heating degree-days were more than 6 percent below the 30-year average, the Company would add a surcharge to firm customer bills (those customers not subject to service interruption) equal to the equivalent margin lost below the approximate 6 percent deficiency. Likewise, if the number of heating-degree days were more than 6 percent above the 30-year average, the Company would credit firm customer bills equal to the excess margin realized above the 6 percent heating degree-days. The measurement period in determining the weather band extends from April through March with any adjustment to be made to customer bills in late spring. 