Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Whitney must recognize and attempt to manage a number of risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and Whitney are: • credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; • market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; • liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; and • operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although Whitney generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of Whitney’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Whitney’s overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that Whitney currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect Whitney’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Unusually severe disruptions in the residential real estate market nationwide and in Whitney’s market area may cause continued higher provisions for credit losses and increase the uncertainty inherent in management’s estimate of credit losses as reflected in its financial condition and results of operations. The residential real estate market has been under severe stress in the Florida and coastal Alabama markets served by Whitney and throughout many other areas of the country. The underlying imbalance of supply and demand will likely take some time to resolve and has caused declines in the value of many residential-related properties, including occupied residences, investment properties, homebuilders’ inventories, developed lots and land for future development. These conditions increase the possibility of default on loans made by Whitney that are secured by residential-related properties as well as the probability that the realizable collateral value will not be sufficient to satisfy the debt, resulting in a loss. Whitney’s loans secured by residential-related real estate in Florida and coastal Alabama comprised approximately 8% of the loan portfolio at December 31, 2008. In addition, the problems in the residential real estate market have direct and indirect negative impacts on the broader economy that may increase the credit risk inherent in Whitney’s loans to customers in these and other parts of Whitney’s market area unrelated to residential real estate. The recession in the broader economy, both nationally and internationally, could have an adverse affect on Whitney’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recessionary conditions in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in Whitney’s market area. For example, there are some published reports that predict 2009 will be the most difficult year for the commercial real estate market since the early 1990’s, although the level of difficulty could vary widely among different market areas. These conditions could, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers, prompt Whitney to tighten its underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in Whitney’s customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand in certain residential real estate markets as discussed above. 10 Table of Contents The impact on Whitney’s financial results could include continued high levels of problem credits, provisions for credit losses and expenses associated with loan collection efforts, the need for Whitney to replace core deposits with higher-cost sources of funds, and an inability to produce loan growth or overall growth in earning assets. Noninterest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. Whitney has credit exposure in the oil and gas industry. At December 31, 2008, Whitney had approximately $1.06 billion in loans to borrowers in the oil and gas industry, representing approximately 12% of its total loans outstanding as of that date. The majority of Whitney’s customer base in this industry provides transportation and other services and products to support exploration and production activities. If there is a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry generally, the cash flows of Whitney’s customers’ in this industry would be adversely impacted. This in turn could impair their ability to service their debt to Whitney with adverse consequences to the Company’s earnings. The composition of Whitney’s loan portfolio could increase the volatility of its credit quality metrics and provisions for credit losses. Whitney’s loan portfolio contains individual relationships, primarily with commercial customers, with outstanding balances that are relatively large in relation to its asset size. Changes in the credit quality of one or a few of these relationships could lead to increased volatility in the Company’s reported totals of loans with above-normal credit risk and in its provisions for credit losses over time. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented, and may result in disruptions in our ability to access sources of funds, which may negatively affect our capital resources and liquidity. The Company depends on access to a variety of sources of funding to provide the Company with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet its commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of its customers. Sources of funding available to the Company, and upon which the Company relies or may rely as regular components of its liquidity and funding management strategy, include interbank borrowings, FHLB advances, borrowings from the Federal Reserve Discount Window and brokered deposits. The Company has also historically enjoyed a solid reputation in the capital markets and historically has been able to raise funds in the form of either short or long-term borrowings or equity issuances. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and periods of severe disruption that in recent months have reached unprecedented levels. Among other factors, these conditions reflect extreme uncertainty on the part of market participants in response to the rapid evolution of the credit crisis among major entities in the financial services industry. In some cases, the markets have pressured stock prices and limited credit availability for certain issuers seemingly without regard to those issuers’ underlying business fundamentals. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on its ability to access the capital markets and sources of liquidity. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the EESA. The legislation was the result of a proposal by the Treasury in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program, a program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will 11 Table of Contents guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, noninterest-bearing bank transaction accounts. On February 17, 2009, President Obama signed into law the ARRA. The purposes of the legislation are to preserve and create jobs, to assist those most impacted by the recession, to provide investments to increase economic efficiency in health services, to invest in transportation, environmental protection and other infrastructure, and to stabilize local and state governments. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize our economy and financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Capital Purchase Program, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the ARRA or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of the Company’s common stock. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect Whitney. Whitney’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Concern by customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources available to Whitney. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured and some may seek deposit products or other bank savings and investment products that are collateralized. Decreases in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. Whitney’s profitability depends in substantial part on net interest income and on its ability to manage interest rate risk. Whitney’s net interest income represented more than 75% of total revenues in each of the last five years. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other earning assets, and interest owed on deposits and borrowings. Numerous and often interrelated factors influence Whitney’s ability to maintain and grow net interest income, and a number of these factors are addressed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. One of the most important factors is changes in market interest rates and in the relationship between these rates for different financial instruments and products and at different maturities. Such changes are generally outside the control of management and cannot be predicted with certainty. Although management applies significant resources to anticipating these changes and to developing and executing strategies for operating in an environment of change, they cannot eliminate the possibility that interest rate risk will negatively affect the Company’s net interest income and lead to earnings volatility. For several years, Whitney has been positioned to be moderately asset sensitive over the near term, which would point to an expected improvement in net interest income in a rising rate environment and a reduction in net interest income as rates declined, holding other factors constant. Recent economic conditions have led to lower market rates during 2008. The Federal Reserve reduced interest rates on three occasions in 2007 by a total of 100 basis points, to 4.25%, and by another 400 basis points, to a range of 0% to 0.25%, during 2008. A significant portion of Whitney’s loans bear interest at variable rates, and the corresponding market 12 Table of Contents benchmark rates have declined sharply over this same period. These and possible further future rate reductions could have a negative impact on Whitney’s net interest income and net income. Whitney is heavily regulated by federal agencies and changes in laws and regulations may affect its financial outlook. Whitney is heavily regulated at the federal level. This regulation is designed primarily to protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products offered and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if the Company does not comply with laws, regulations or policies, it could receive regulatory sanctions, including monetary penalties that may have a material impact on its financial condition and results of operations, and suffer damage to its reputation. In response to the recent crises affecting the banking system and financial markets, Congress is likely to consider additional proposals to substantially change the financial institution regulatory system and to expand or contract the powers of banking institutions and bank holding companies. Such legislation may change existing banking statutes and regulations, as well as the Company’s current operating environment significantly. If enacted, such legislation could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand the Company’s permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations. As a result of Whitney’s participation in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) , Whitney may face additional regulation and cannot predict the cost or effects of compliance at this time. In connection with Whitney’s participation in the CPP, the Company and the Bank may face additional regulations and/or reporting requirements, including, but not limited to, the following: • Section 5.3 of the standardized Securities Purchase Agreement that the Company entered into with the Treasury provides, in part, that the Treasury “may unilaterally amend any provision of this Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes after the Signing Date in applicable federal statutes.” This provision could give Congress the ability to impose “after-the-fact” terms and conditions on participants in the CPP. As a participant in the CPP, the Company would be subject to any such retroactive legislation. The Company cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which its business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. • Most recently, the ARRA included additional restrictions on the operations of bank holding companies and banks that participate in the various TARP programs. Because some of these restrictions are new and expected to apply retroactively, ARRA also provided the opportunity for recipients of funds under the CPP to elect to return the TARP proceeds to the Treasury and to not participate in the CPP. At this time, because the terms and conditions of its participation are not yet final and there are additional regulatory actions needed to be taken in connection with ARRA and the CPP, Whitney has not yet made a decision on whether or not to continue its participation in the CPP. The senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to Whitney’s common shareholders and its earnings per share. On December 19, 2008, the Company issued senior preferred stock (Series A preferred stock) to the Treasury in an aggregate amount of $300 million, along with a warrant for 2,631,579 shares of common stock. As long as shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock issued under the CPP are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the Company’s common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock 13 Table of Contents have been paid in full. Additionally, for so long as the Treasury owns shares of the Series A preferred stock, the Company is not permitted to pay cash dividends in excess of $.31 per share per quarter on its common stock for three years without the Treasury’s consent. The dividends declared on shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and the Company’s earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock issued to the Treasury, in conjunction with the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to the Company’s earnings per share. The shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of Whitney’s common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that the Company has issued to the Treasury is senior to its shares of common stock and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of the Company’s common stock. The restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to common shareholders are discussed immediately above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company’s common stock unless the Company has paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of the Company’s common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to Whitney’s board of directors. In the event that the Company fails to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting the Company’s board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for this purpose) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except in connection with the election of directors to the Company’s board of directors as discussed immediately above and as otherwise required by law, holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or Whitney’s amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 662/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than the Company and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders the Series A preferred stock. Whitney may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain the Company’s or its Bank’s capital at desired or regulatory-required levels or to replace existing capital such as the Series A preferred stock, the Company may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. The Company may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of 14 Table of Contents shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. The Company could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. Whitney’s market area is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms, which may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Most of Whitney’s market area lies within the coastal region of the five states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. This is a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. The two strong hurricanes that struck in 2005 had a major impact on the greater New Orleans area, southwest Louisiana and the Mississippi coast, with lesser impacts on coastal Alabama and the western panhandle of Florida. Within its broader market area, the greater New Orleans area is Whitney’s primary base of operations and is home to branches and relationship officers that service approximately 40% of the Bank’s total loans and 50% of total deposits at December 31, 2008. The 2005 storms caused widespread property damage, required temporary or permanent relocations of a large number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. Although the Bank was able to operate successfully in the aftermath of these storms, management carefully studied its risk posture and has taken a number of steps to reduce the Bank’s exposure to future natural disasters and make its disaster recovery plans and operating arrangements more resilient. Details of the storms’ impact on Whitney, both operationally and with respect to credit risk and liquidity, has been chronicled in Item 7 of the Company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K for 2007, 2006 and 2005 as well as in Item 2 of Part I of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed since the storms struck. Whitney cannot predict the extent to which future storms may impact its exposure to credit risk, operational risk or liquidity risk. Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 