ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results Together with the other information on the risks we face and our management of risk contained in this Annual Report or in our other SEC filings, the following presents significant risks which may affect us. Events or circumstances arising from one or more of these risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects, and the value and price of our common stock could decline. The risks identified below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all risks we face and additional risks that we may currently view as not material may also impair our business operations and results. Difficult economic and market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant writedowns of assets by many financial institutions. General downward economic trends, 23 Table of Contents reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment have negatively impacted the credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional writedowns. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased commercial and consumer deficiencies, lack of customer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: •We potentially face increased regulation of our industry including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with the EESA and the ARRA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. •The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. •We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. •The Company's borrowers may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could result in significant credit losses, increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. •Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or at all from other financial institutions. •Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions and the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies may adversely affect the Company's ability to market its products and services. Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions may not stabilize the U.S. banking system. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The EESA, which established TARP, was signed into law on October 3, 2008. As part of TARP, the U.S. Treasury established the TARP CPP to provide up to $700 billion of funding to eligible financial institutions through the purchase of capital stock and other financial instruments for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Then, on February 17, 2009, the ARRA was signed into law as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for broad infrastructure, energy, health, and education needs. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the TARP CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions 24 Table of Contents could materially and adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its common shares. There have been numerous actions undertaken in connection with or following the EESA and ARRA by the FRB, Congress, U.S. Treasury, the SEC and the federal bank regulatory agencies in efforts to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry that followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown which began in late 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the temporary increase in FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000, the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to help stabilize the U.S. banking system. The EESA, ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in California, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. As described in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," recent turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. Although the Company and the Bank remain well capitalized and have not suffered any significant liquidity issues as a result of these recent events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers realize the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in Northern and Southern California, we may be particularly susceptible to the adverse economic conditions in the state of California, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate the Company's exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. We may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses and charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $226.0 million provision for loan losses and charged off $147.5 million, gross of $6.0 million in recoveries. There has been a significant slowdown in the housing market in portions of Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange counties where a majority of our loan customers are based. This slowdown reflects declining prices and excess inventories of homes to be sold, which has contributed to financial strain on home builders and suppliers. As of December 31, 2008, we had $5.31 billion in commercial real estate and construction loans. Continuing deterioration in the real estate market generally and in the residential building segment in particular could result in additional loan charge offs and provisions for loan losses in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, net income and capital. Our allowance for loan and lease losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that we could sustain losses because borrowers, guarantors, and 25 Table of Contents related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and leases. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses to provide for loan and lease defaults and non-performance. The allowance is also appropriately increased for new loan growth. While we believe that our allowance for loan and lease losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure you that we will not increase the allowance for loan and lease losses further. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to acquire deposits or borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a severe disruption of the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole as the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations in the domestic and worldwide credit markets deteriorates. The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect the Company's ability to engage in routine funding transactions. Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to different industries and counterparties, and executes transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Recent defaults by financial services institutions, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company's credit risk may increase when the collateral held by it cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to the Company. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations. Our loan portfolio is predominantly secured by real estate and thus we have a higher degree of risk from a downturn in our real estate markets. A downturn in our real estate markets could hurt our business because many of our loans are secured by real estate. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies and acts of nature, such as earthquakes and national disasters particular to California. Substantially all of our real estate collateral is located in California. If real estate values continue to further decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans could be significantly reduced. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. We may experience additional goodwill impairment. In light of the overall instability of the economy, the continued volatility in the financial markets, the downward pressure on bank stock prices, and expectations of financial performance for the banking industry, including the Company, our estimates of goodwill fair value may be subject to change or adjustment and we may determine that 26 Table of Contents additional impairment charges are necessary. Estimates of fair value are determined based on a complex model using cash flows and company comparisons. If management's estimates of future cash flows are inaccurate, the fair value determined could be inaccurate and impairment may not be recognized in a timely manner. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, the Company's market capitalization continued to decrease. If the Company's market capitalization continues to remain below book value, the Company will update its valuation analysis to determine whether goodwill is impaired. No assurance can be given that goodwill will not be written down further in future periods. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. A substantial portion of our income is derived from the differential or "spread" between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other interest-earning assets, and the interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in the maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Significant fluctuations in market interest rates could materially and adversely affect not only our net interest spread, but also our asset quality and loan origination volume. We are subject to extensive government regulation that could limit or restrict our activities, which, in turn, may hamper our ability to increase our assets and earnings. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules, regulations and supervisory guidance and policies applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change. The Company is now also subject to supervision, regulation and investigation by the U.S. Treasury and the Office of the Special Inspector General for the TARP under the EESA by virtue of its participation in the TARP CPP. From time to time, various laws, rules and regulations are proposed, which, if adopted, could impact our operations by making compliance much more difficult or expensive, restricting our ability to originate or sell loans or further restricting the amount of interest or other charges or fees earned on loans or other products. The short term and long term impact of the new Basel II capital standards and the forthcoming new capital rules to be proposed for non-Basel II U.S. banks is uncertain. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative standardized approach to Basel II option for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. Failure to manage our growth may adversely affect our performance. Our financial performance and profitability depend on our ability to manage our recent and possible future growth. Future acquisitions and our continued growth may present operating, integration and other issues that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. We conduct most of our operations in California. The banking and financial services businesses in California are highly competitive and increased competition in our primary market area may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance 27 Table of Contents companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology-driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. Our ability to increase our deposit base depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at favorable rates. We seek additional deposits by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption of these services or systems or breaches in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions may require us to identify alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure you that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. We are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel may materially and adversely affect our prospects. Competition for qualified employees and personnel in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California community banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, loan origination, finance, administrative, marketing and technical personnel and upon the continued contributions of our management and personnel. In particular, our success has been and continues to be highly dependent upon the abilities of key executives, including our President, and certain other employees. Managing reputational risk is important to attracting and maintaining customers, investors and employees. Threats to the Company's reputation can come from many sources, including unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. We have policies and procedures in place to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct, but these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. Negative publicity regarding our business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, may result in the loss of customers, investors and employees, costly litigation, a decline in revenues and increased governmental regulation. State laws may restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability for the Bank to pay dividends to the Company is limited by California law and the Company's ability to pay dividends on its outstanding stock is limited by Delaware law. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources." The terms of our outstanding preferred stock limit our ability to pay dividends on and repurchase our common stock, and there can be no assurance of any future dividends on our common stock. The Stock 28 Table of Contents Purchase Agreement between the Company and the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which we sold $306.5 million of our Series B Preferred Stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock") and issued a warrant to purchase up to 3,035,109 shares of our common stock (the "TARP Warrant") provides that prior to the earlier of (i) December 5, 2011 and (ii) the date on which all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock have been redeemed by us or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to third parties, we may not, without the consent of the U.S. Treasury, (a) increase the cash dividend on our common stock above $0.10 per share or (b) subject to limited exceptions, redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire shares of our common stock or preferred stock other than the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock. The terms of our outstanding Series A Preferred Stock have similar limitations on our ability to redeem or repurchase our common stock. In addition, we are unable to pay any dividends on our common stock unless we are current in our dividend payments on the Series B Preferred Stock and Series A Preferred Stock. These restrictions, together with the potentially dilutive impact of the TARP Warrant and common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, described below, could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. Moreover, holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends only when, as and if declared by our Board of Directors. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so. Commencing with first quarter 2009 dividends, our Board of Directors reduced our common stock dividend to $0.02 per share, relative to our previous quarterly dividend rate of $0.10 per share. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources" herein. The terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement allow the U.S. Treasury to impose additional restrictions, including those on dividends and including unilateral amendments required to comply with changes in applicable federal law. Our outstanding preferred stock impacts net income available to our common stockholders and earnings per common share, and the TARP Warrant as well as other potential issuances of equity securities may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. The dividends declared and the accretion on discount on our outstanding preferred stock will reduce the net income available to common stockholders and our earnings per common share. Our outstanding preferred stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the TARP Warrant is exercised. The shares of common stock underlying the TARP Warrant represent approximately 5% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2009 (including the shares issuable upon exercise of the TARP Warrant in total shares outstanding). Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the shares of common stock it receives upon exercise of the TARP Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the TARP Warrant or of any shares of common stock acquired upon exercise of the TARP Warrant is not bound by this restriction. In addition, to the extent our Series A Preferred Stock is converted, or options to purchase common stock under our employee and director stock option plans are exercised, holders of our common stock will incur additional dilution. Further, if we sell additional equity or convertible debt securities, such sales could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. Because of our participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on compensation paid to our executives. Pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, we adopted certain standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the U.S. Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the TARP Warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include (1) ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; (2) required clawback of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that 29 Table of Contents are later proven to be materially inaccurate; (3) prohibition on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and (4) agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation will likely increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. Since the TARP Warrant has a ten year term, we could potentially be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for a ten year time period. The adoption of the ARRA on February 17, 2009 imposed certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future TARP recipients, including the Company, until the institution has repaid the U.S. Treasury, which is now permitted under the ARRA without penalty and without the need to raise new capital, subject to the U.S. Treasury's consultation with the recipient's appropriate regulatory agency. The executive compensation standards are more stringent than those currently in effect under the TARP CPP or those previously proposed by the U.S. Treasury. The new standards include (but are not limited to) (i) prohibitions on bonuses, retention awards and other incentive compensation, other than restricted stock grants which do not fully vest during the TARP period up to one-third of an employee's total annual compensation, (ii) prohibitions on golden parachute payments for departure from a company, (iii) an expanded clawback of bonuses, retention awards, and incentive compensation if payment is based on materially inaccurate statements of earnings, revenues, gains or other criteria, (iv) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings, (v) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards and other compensation previously provided by TARP recipients if found by the Treasury to be inconsistent with the purposes of TARP or otherwise contrary to public interest, (vi) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding "excessive or luxury expenditures," and (vii) inclusion in a participant's proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a nonbinding "Say on Pay" shareholder vote on the compensation of executives. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: •actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; •changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; •failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates; •speculation in the press or investment community; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •actions by institutional shareholders; •fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; •general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry; •proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; •anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or •domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility recently. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without 30 Table of Contents limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, and other factors identified above in "Special Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us or have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire control of us. For example, our certificate of incorporation requires the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding shares of voting stock to approve certain business combinations. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation, as amended, authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These and other provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Natural disasters and geopolitical events beyond our control could adversely affect us. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme weather conditions, hurricanes, floods, and other acts of nature and geopolitical events involving terrorism or military conflict could adversely affect our business operations and those of our customers and cause substantial damage and loss to real and personal property. These natural disasters and geopolitical events could impair our borrowers' ability to service their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, erode the value of loan collateral, and result in an increase in the amount of our nonperforming loans and a higher level of nonperforming assets (including real estate owned), net chargeoffs, and provision for loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. Adverse conditions in Asia could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to Asia and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in Asia. Additionally, we also have representative offices in Beijing and Shanghai and a full-service branch in Hong Kong. U.S. and global economic policies, military tensions, and unfavorable global economic conditions may adversely impact the Asian economies. Pandemics and other public health crises or concerns over the possibility of such crises could create economic and financial disruptions in the region. If economic conditions in Asia deteriorate, we could, among other things, be exposed to economic and transfer risk, and could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to Asia. Transfer risk may result when an entity is unable to obtain the foreign exchange needed to meet its obligations or to provide liquidity. This may adversely impact the recoverability of investments with or loans made to such entities. Adverse economic conditions in Asia, and in China in particular, may also negatively impact asset values and the profitability and liquidity of our customers who operate in this region. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in further expansion through acquisitions, which could negatively affect our business and earnings. We have engaged in and may continue to engage in expansion through acquisitions. There are risks associated with such expansion. These risks include, among others, incorrectly assessing the asset quality of a bank acquired in a particular transaction, encountering greater than anticipated costs in integrating acquired businesses, facing resistance from 31 Table of Contents customers or employees, and being unable to profitably deploy assets acquired in the transaction. Additional country- and region-specific risks are associated with transactions outside the United States, including in China. To the extent we issue capital stock in connection with additional transactions, these transactions and related stock issuances may have a dilutive effect on earnings per share and share ownership. Our earnings, financial condition, and prospects after a merger or acquisition depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate the operations of the acquired company. We may be unable to integrate operations successfully or to achieve expected cost savings. Any cost savings which are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 