ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business The following factors affect our business and the industry in which we operate. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or which we currently consider immaterial may also have an adverse effect on our business. If any of the matters discussed in the following risk factors were to occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Our business is at an early stage of development. Our business is at an early stage of development. We do not have any products in late-stage clinical trials or on the market. We are still in the early stages of identifying and conducting research on potential products. Only one of our products has progressed to the stage of being studied in human clinical trials in the United States. Our 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements potential products will require regulatory approval prior to marketing in the United States and other countries. Obtaining such approval will require significant research and development and preclinical and clinical testing. We may not be able to develop any products, to obtain regulatory approvals, to enter clinical trials for any of our product candidates, or commercialize any products. Our product candidates may prove to have undesirable and unintended side effects or other characteristics adversely affecting their safety, efficacy or cost-effectiveness that could prevent or limit their use. Any product using any of our technology may fail to provide the intended therapeutic benefits, or achieve therapeutic benefits equal to or better than the standard of treatment at the time of testing or production. We have a history of operating losses and do not expect to be profitable in the near future. We have not generated any profits since our entry into the biotechnology business, have no source of revenues, and have incurred significant operating losses. We expect to incur additional operating losses for the foreseeable future. We do not have any sources of revenues and may not have any in the foreseeable future. We will need additional capital to conduct our operations beyond August 2009 and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We need to obtain significant amounts of additional capital to continue our business beyond August 2009. The capital may come from many sources, including equity and/or debt financings, license arrangements, grants and/or collaborative research arrangements. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $1.2 million. Our current burn rate is approximately $300,000 per month. Effective, April 14, 2009, the Company closed on an initial tranche of a private offering of secured convertible notes and warrants for approximately $1.1 million. We must rely upon third-party debt or equity funding and we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in any funding effort. The failure to raise such funds will necessitate the curtailment or ceasing of operations. The timing and degree of any future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to establish, enforce and maintain strategic arrangements for research, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing; • the accuracy of the assumptions underlying our estimates for capital needs in 2009 and beyond; • scientific progress in our research and development programs; • the magnitude and scope of our research and development programs; • our progress with preclinical development and clinical trials; • the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending and enforcing patent claims; and • the number and type of product candidates that we pursue. We do not have any committed sources of capital, although we have issued and outstanding warrants that, if exercised, would result in an equity capital raising transaction. Additional financing through strategic collaborations, public or private equity financings, capital lease transactions or other financing sources may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Additional equity financings could result in significant dilution to our stockholders. Further, if additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborative partners, these arrangements may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop and commercialize ourselves. If sufficient capital is not available we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our independent auditor’s opinion expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern which may make raising capital more difficult and could require us to cease operations. The opinion of our independent auditors in respect of the 2008 fiscal year, included elsewhere in this annual report, expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Specifically, it indicates an absence of obvious or reasonably assured sources of future funding that will be required by us to maintain ongoing operations. Although Opexa has been successfully funded to date by attracting investors in our equity, there is no assurance that our capital raising efforts will be able to attract the capital needed to sustain our operations. The opinion from our auditors expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. If we are unable to obtain additional funding for operations, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In such event, investors may lose a portion or all of their investment. We will need regulatory approvals for all of our product candidates which require that all of our product candidates be tested in clinical trials. Clinical trials are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, very expensive, time-consuming and difficult to design and implement. Our products may fail to achieve necessary safety and efficacy endpoints during clinical trials in which case we will be unable to generate revenue from the commercialization and sale of our products. Human clinical trials are very expensive and difficult to design and implement, in part because they are subject to rigorous Food and Drug Administration (FDA) requirements, and must otherwise comply with federal, state and local requirements and policies of the medical institutions where they are conducted. The clinical trial process is also time-consuming. We estimate that clinical trials of our product candidates will take at least several years to complete. Furthermore, failure can occur at any stage of the trials, and we could encounter problems that cause us to abandon or repeat clinical trials. The commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by several factors, including: • FDA or Institutional Review Board (IRB) objection to proposed protocols; • discussions or disagreement with the FDA over the adequacy of trial design to potentially demonstrate effectiveness, and subsequent design modifications; • unforeseen safety issues; • determination of dosing issues and related adjustments; • lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; • slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; • product quality problems (e.g., sterility or purity) • challenges to patient monitoring and data collection during or after treatment (for example, patients’ failure to return for follow-up visits); and • failure of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols. In addition we or the FDA (based on its authority over clinical studies) may delay a proposed investigation or suspend clinical trials in progress at any time if it appears that the study may pose significant risks to the study participants or other serious deficiencies are identified. Prior to approval of our product the FDA must determine that the data demonstrate safety and effectiveness. The large majority of drug candidates that begin human clinical trials fail to demonstrate the desired safety and efficacy characteristics. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for certain of our product candidates, that approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which it may be marketed. Our ability to generate revenues from the commercialization and sale of our products will be limited by any failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are dependent upon our management team and a small number of employees. Our business strategy is dependent upon the skills and knowledge of our management team. If any critical employee leaves, we may be unable on a timely basis to hire suitable replacements to effectively operate our business. We also operate with a very small number of employees and thus have little or no backup capability for their activities. The loss of the services of any member of our management team or the loss of a number of other employees could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we fail to meet our obligations under our license agreements, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on three licenses from third parties. These third party license agreements impose obligations on us, such as payment obligations and obligations to diligently pursue development of commercial products under the licensed patents. If a licensor believes that we have failed to meet our obligations under a license agreement, the licensor could seek to limit or terminate our license rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of the licensed rights. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. If our license rights were restricted or ultimately lost, our ability to continue our business based on the affected technology platform could be adversely affected. Our current research and manufacturing facility is not large enough to manufacture future stem cell and T-cell therapies. We conduct our research and development in a 10,200 square foot facility in The Woodlands, Texas, which includes an approximately 800 square foot suite of three rooms for the manufacture of T-cell therapies. Our current facility is not large enough to fully support pivotal Phase III trials for the development of Tovaxin for MS or conduct commercial-scale manufacturing operations. We will need to expand further our manufacturing staff and facility, obtain a new facility or contract with corporate collaborators or other third parties to assist with future drug production. In the event that we decide to establish a commercial-scale manufacturing facility, we will require substantial additional funds and will be required to hire and train significant numbers of employees and comply with applicable regulations, which are extensive. We do not have funds available for building a manufacturing facility, and we may not be able to build a manufacturing facility that both meets regulatory requirements and is sufficient for our commercial-scale manufacturing. We may arrange with third parties for the manufacture of our future products. However, our third-party sourcing strategy may not result in a cost-effective means for manufacturing our future products. If we employ third-party manufacturers, we will not control many aspects of the manufacturing process, including compliance by these third parties with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices and other regulatory requirements. We further may not be able to obtain adequate supplies from third-party manufacturers in a timely fashion for development or commercialization purposes, and commercial quantities of products may not be available from contract manufacturers at acceptable costs. Patents obtained by other persons may result in infringement claims against us that are costly to defend and which may limit our ability to use the disputed technologies and prevent us from pursuing research and development or commercialization of potential products. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other companies, universities and research institutions have filed patent applications or have been issued patents relating to cell therapy, stem cells, T-cells, and other technologies potentially relevant to or required by our expected products. We cannot predict which, if any, of such applications will issue as patents or the claims that might be allowed. We are aware that a number of companies have filed applications relating to stem cells. We are also aware of a number of patent applications and patents claiming use of stem cells and other modified cells to treat disease, disorder or injury. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If third party patents or patent applications contain claims infringed by either our licensed technology or other technology required to make and use our potential products and such claims are ultimately determined to be valid, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses to these patents at a reasonable cost, if at all, or be able to develop or obtain alternative technology. If we are unable to obtain such licenses at a reasonable cost, we may not be able to develop some products commercially. There can be no assurance that we will not be obliged to defend ourselves in court against allegations of infringement of third party patents. Patent litigation is very expensive and could consume substantial resources and create significant uncertainties. An adverse outcome in such a suit could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties, or require us to cease using such technology. If we are unable to obtain future patents and other proprietary rights our operations will be significantly harmed. Our ability to compete effectively is dependent in part upon obtaining patent protection relating to our technologies. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex and evolving legal and factual questions. The coverage sought in a patent application can be denied or significantly reduced before or after the patent is issued. Consequently, we do not know whether the patent applications for our technology will result in the issuance of patents, or if any future patents will provide significant protection or commercial advantage or will be circumvented by others. Since patent applications are secret until the applications are published (usually eighteen months after the earliest effective filing date), and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that the inventors of our licensed patents were the first to make the inventions covered by the patent applications or that the licensed patent applications were the first to be filed for such inventions. There can be no assurance that patents will issue from the patent applications or, if issued, that such patents will be of commercial benefit to us, afford us adequate protection from competing products, or not be challenged or declared invalid. Our competition includes fully integrated biopharmaceutical and pharmaceutical companies that have significant advantages over us. The markets for therapeutic stem cell products, multiple sclerosis products, and rheumatoid arthritis products are highly competitive. Our most significant competitors are fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and more established biotechnology companies. These companies have significantly greater capital resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing than we currently do. Many of these potential competitors are further along in the process of product development and also operate large, company-funded research and development programs. As a result, our competitors may develop more competitive or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product commercialization than we are able to achieve. Competitive products may render any products or product candidates that we develop obsolete. The market for our products will be heavily dependent on third party reimbursement policies. Our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates will depend on the extent to which government healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, as well as private health insurers, health maintenance organizations and other third party payors will pay for our products and related treatments. Reimbursement by third party payors depends on a number of factors, including the payor’s determination that use of the product is safe and effective, not experimental or investigational, medically necessary, appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Reimbursement may not be available or maintained for any of our product candidates. If we do not obtain approvals for adequate third party reimbursements, we may not be able to establish or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Any limits on reimbursement from third party payors may reduce the demand for, or negatively affect the price of, our products. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Restrictive and extensive government regulation could slow or hinder our production of a cellular product. The research and development of stem cell therapies is subject to and restricted by extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries. The process of obtaining FDA and other necessary regulatory approvals is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. We may fail to obtain the necessary approvals to continue our research and development, which would hinder our ability to manufacture or market any future product. Even after granting regulatory approval the FDA and regulatory agencies in other countries continue to review and inspect marketed products, manufacturers and manufacturing facilities, which may create additional regulatory burdens. To be successful, our product candidates must be accepted by the health care community, which can be very slow to adopt or unreceptive to new technologies and products. Our product candidates, if approved for marketing, may not achieve market acceptance since hospitals, physicians, patients or the medical community in general may decide to not accept and utilize these products. The product candidates that we are attempting to develop represent substantial departures from established treatment methods and will compete with a number of more conventional drugs and therapies manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. The degree of market acceptance of any of our developed products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our establishment and demonstration to the medical community of the clinical efficacy and safety of our product candidates; • our ability to create products that are superior to alternatives currently on the market; • our ability to establish in the medical community the potential advantage of our treatments over alternative treatment methods; and • reimbursement policies of government and third-party payers. If the health care community does not accept our products for any of the foregoing reasons, or for any other reason, our business would be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Securities There is currently a limited market for our securities, and any trading market that exists in our securities may be highly illiquid and may not reflect the underlying value of our net assets or business prospects. Although our common stock and Series E warrants are traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, there is currently a limited market for our securities and there can be no assurance that an improved market will ever develop. Investors are cautioned not to rely on the possibility that an active trading market may develop. Our stock may be delisted from Nasdaq, which could affect its market price and liquidity. We are required to meet certain qualitative and financial tests (including a minimum stockholders’ equity requirement and bid price for our common stock of $1.00 per share) to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As of December 31, 2008, our stockholders’ equity was below the continued listing standard requirement of $2.5 million and the bid price for our common stock is below $1.00 per share. We may receive notice from Nasdaq that we have failed to meet these requirements. If we were unable to cure these failures in a timely manner and our common stock were delisted, it could be more difficult to buy or sell our common stock and to obtain accurate quotations, and the price of our stock could suffer a material decline. Delisting may also impair our ability to raise capital. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As our share price is volatile, we may be or become the target of securities litigation, which is costly and time-consuming to defend. In the past, following periods of market volatility in the price of a company’s securities or the reporting of unfavorable news, security holders have often instituted class action litigation. If the market value of our securities experience adverse fluctuations and we become involved in this type of litigation, regardless of the outcome, we could incur substantial legal costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from the operation of our business, causing our business to suffer. Our “blank check” preferred stock could be issued to prevent a business combination not desired by management or our current majority shareholders. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock with such designations, rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors without shareholder approval. Our preferred stock could be utilized as a method of discouraging, delaying, or preventing a change in our control and as a method of preventing shareholders from receiving a premium for their shares in connection with a change of control. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower our stock price. We may sell additional shares of common stock in subsequent public or private offerings. We may also issue additional shares of common stock to finance future acquisitions. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our common stock will have on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We presently do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that no cash dividends will be paid on the common stock in the foreseeable future. While our dividend policy will be based on the operating results and capital needs of the business, it is anticipated that all earnings, if any, will be retained to finance the future expansion of the our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 