ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and our Company. The risks and uncertainties described in this section are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, operating performance and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION OUR INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM HAS EXPRESSED SUBSTANTIAL DOUBT ABOUT OUR ABILITY TO CONTINUE AS A GOING CONCERN. In our audit report on our financial statements for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, our auditors included a going-concern qualification indicating that our significant operating losses and non compliance with covenants cause substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. By issuing an opinion stating that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, our auditors have indicated that they are uncertain as to whether we have the capability to continue our operations without additional funding. WE HAVE LIMITED FINANCIAL RESOURCES AND OPERATE IN A HIGHLY SEASONAL BUSINESS WHICH MAY IMPACT OUR ABILITY TO FUND OUR OPERATIONS. WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FUNDING, WHICH MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON FAVORABLE TERMS OR AT ALL. On February 22, 2008, in connection with the tender offer, we entered into an Amended and Restated Revolving Line of Credit Loan Agreement and Security Agreement (the “New Loan Agreement”) with VGI Financial Corp., an affiliate of Follett Corporation (“VGI Finance”), and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which amends and restates the Revolving Line of Credit Loan Agreement and Security Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. (“BOA”), entered into by us on March 8, 2007 (the “Prior Loan Agreement”). VGI Finance has purchased and assumed from BOA the obligations under the Prior Loan Agreement. The New Loan Agreement is secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets, including approximately $2.0 million of cash. There is approximately $4.5 million of advances outstanding under the line of credit as of March 19, 2008. VGI Finance has agreed, subject to certain conditions, to forebear from enforcing an event of default that is presently outstanding under the Prior Loan Agreement until April 30, 2008. We presently do not have access to sufficient liquidity to fund our operations on a stand-alone basis and have drawn on the credit line of the New Loan Agreement to finance our operating expenses. We expect to continue to experience significant seasonality in our business related to the academic calendar and the corresponding demand for textbooks and educational materials. Our revenues are concentrated in the traditional Fall back-to-school season of July, August and September, our third calendar quarter. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated by our operations. Our projections of cash flows from operations and, consequently, future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty. If we violate financial covenants in the New Loan Agreement or are not able to negotiate forbearance with VGI Finance regarding defaults, VGI Finance may declare an event of default and require repayment of our indebtedness. We may not be able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or seek new financing. The amount of funding that we seek and the timing of such fundraising efforts will depend on the extent to which we are able to increase revenues and/or the extent to which we can restructure or modify our debt. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may become insolvent or enter into bankruptcy and our stockholders may lose their entire investment in us. WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES, MAY CONTINUE TO INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE OR MAINTAIN PROFITABILITY. We have incurred substantial losses in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2007. Beginning in the second quarter of 2006, we moved aggressively to launch service offerings outside our core book and uniform offerings. Significant costs were incurred in this effort. In November 2006, due to the financial impact of cost increases together with limited new revenue generation from non-book/uniform service offerings, efforts to launch service offerings outside the book and uniform areas were terminated or suspended. Poorer than expected results from our 2007 back to school season also adversely affected our financial position. We continue to be, and in future periods may remain, unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our expenses. We believe that we will continue to experience challenges in generating a profit and may continue to operate with net losses for the foreseeable future. 8 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY UPON WHICH TO EVALUATE AN INVESTMENT IN OUR COMPANY. We were founded in December 1997 and began selling textbooks on our website in August 1998. As a relatively new company, we face significant risks and uncertainties relating to our ability to successfully implement our strategy. If we are unable to grow as planned, our chances of achieving profitability and the anticipated or forecasted results of operations could be reduced. You must consider the risks and uncertainties that a company with a limited operating history like ours faces. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties or are unable to execute our strategy, our business could be harmed which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our stock. WE MUST CONTINUE TO CONVERT SCHOOLS TO OUR TEXTBOOK PROGRAM AND RETAIN THEM IN THE PROGRAM. To be successful, we must attract and retain a significant number of schools to our Varsity Books school program. Ultimately, we must attract the students and parents from each Varsity Books school to our website at a reasonable cost. Any significant shortfall in the expected number of purchases occurring through our website may negatively affect our financial results. Conversion of schools from traditional on campus bookstore operations to our online textbook outsource solutions may not occur as rapidly as we expect. Therefore, we may not achieve the customer traffic we believe is necessary to sustain the growth and profitability of our enterprise. Specific factors that could prevent widespread customer acceptance of our business and our ability to increase retail revenues include: • lack of awareness of our Varsity Books school program; • pricing that does not meet consumer expectations; • consumer concerns about the security of online transactions; • shipping charges, which do not apply to shopping at traditional retail stores and are not always charged by some of our online competitors; • the delivery time associated with online orders, as compared to the immediate receipt of products at traditional retail stores; • product damage from shipping or shipments of the wrong products, which may result in a failure to establish trust in purchasing our products online; • delays in responses to consumer inquiries or in deliveries to consumers; and • difficulty in returning or exchanging orders. Based on these or other factors, we may not be able to retain existing Varsity Books member schools or sign-up new Varsity Books member schools. WE PRIMARILY RELY ON ONE SUPPLIER TO MEET OUR TEXTBOOK FULFILLMENT NEEDS. We depend on Baker & Taylor (“B&T”) as our primary supplier of the textbooks that we offer. Our relationship with B&T is critical to our success. Our current contract with B&T expires on June 30, 2008. If we are unable to renew this contract when it expires, or are unable to otherwise rely on B&T for inventory maintenance and shipping services and we are unable to open our own distribution center or establish a comparable vendor relationship before the B&T relationship discontinues, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly harmed. B&T warehouses most of our textbook inventory and we rely on them to maintain adequate inventory levels and rapidly fill our customers’ orders. Prices we pay for promotional, customer service and database management services and credits that we receive from B&T are currently based on volume and average cost requirements. Failure to meet these benchmarks would 9 increase our costs. If they do not maintain sufficient inventory, or if they are unable to deliver the specific books our customers order or deliver these books in a timely fashion, we would not be able to meet our obligations to our customers, our revenues would decrease and we would likely experience a reduction in the value of our brand. If our relationship with B&T is disrupted or does not continue for any reason and we are unable to establish a comparable vendor relationship or open our own warehouse before the B&T relationship discontinues, we would not be able to fulfill our customers’ textbook orders. We cannot be certain that we would be able to establish new vendor relationships to ensure acquisition and distribution of textbooks in a timely and efficient manner or on acceptable commercial terms. In such event, we may determine that we need to maintain inventory, establish warehouse facilities and provide distribution services, which would require us to change our business model. In addition, we estimate that a single publisher represented approximately 17% of our textbook revenues in 2007. If B&T’s relationship with this publisher is disrupted or discontinued, our business may be harmed. We benefit from the shipping discounts offered to B&T by UPS and we rely on UPS and other third party common carriers for all shipments to and from B&T. If B&T’s relationship with UPS is discontinued or disrupted for any reason, we cannot be certain we would be able to affordably obtain comparable delivery services and might not be able to deliver textbooks to our customers in a timely manner. In addition, because we rely on third party common carriers to ship products to and from the B&T warehouses that our fulfillment is currently conducted from, we are subject to the risks, including employee strikes and inclement weather, that may prevent such third parties from meeting our fulfillment and delivery needs. Failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may harm our reputation, our brand, our business, our financial condition and results of operations. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION IN THE ONLINE TEXTBOOK MARKETS AND THAT COMPETITION MAY INCREASE SUBSTANTIALLY BECAUSE OF THE LOW BARRIERS TO MARKET ENTRY. The e-commerce and online textbook markets are new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify in the future. Barriers to entry in the e-commerce industry are minimal, and current and new competitors can launch new websites quickly and at a relatively low cost. In addition, new and expanded Internet technologies, including search and web services, may further increase competition in the online textbook and e-commerce industries. We currently compete with a variety of other companies in the sale of textbooks, and if we are able to add other online product or service offerings we will have additional competition in those markets. Our current and potential competition in the textbook market includes the following categories of companies: • traditional new and used textbook retailers, such as campus bookstores; • traditional used textbook retailers, some of which have begun online selling; • textbook retailers and distributors such as the Follett Corporation, MBS Textbook Exchange, Nebraska Book Company, eCampus and Adams Book Company; and • Internet-based booksellers such as Amazon.com, Wal-Mart.com and BarnesandNoble.com We are not able to reliably estimate the number of our direct competitors. To date, our most active competitor targeting the private middle and high school textbook market with an online bookstore program is MBS Textbook Exchange. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer general retail operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, technological, operational and other resources than we do. Some of our competitors may be able to secure textbooks from vendors on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing, shipping policies or inventory availability policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. As competition increases, we may experience reduced operating margins from pricing pressure or higher customer acquisition and retention costs, loss of market share and a diminished brand franchise. To remain competitive, we may from time to time make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. It is possible that our supply channel (distributors and, indirectly, publishers) may enter the market and match our pricing through direct retail centers. Either or both of our supply channel or traditional operators of school bookstores may enter the online commerce market as our competitors. 10 As Internet use becomes increasingly prevalent, it is possible that the full text of books we offer for sale will be available for viewing on the web or on other electronic devices such as virtual textbooks. If virtual textbooks become a reality and students rely on them in lieu of purchasing hard copies of textbooks, our business may decline. IF WE FAIL TO FIELD AND RETAIN A QUALIFIED WORKFORCE, OUR OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND FINANCIAL CONDITION COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED. THE LOSS OF ANY OF OUR KEY MANAGEMENT COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We believe that our success depends on our ability to motivate and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for skilled personnel can be intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, motivating and retaining the personnel required to improve our financial performance and grow. In addition, the cost of hiring and retaining skilled employees is high. Failure to attract and retain highly skilled personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our executive officers and several key operating managers and employees, many of whom have been employed by us for extended periods and have intimate knowledge of our systems, processes and procedures. The loss or departure of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our ability to implement our business plan. We do not maintain key person insurance on any member of our management team. Our cost reduction initiative which began in the fourth quarter of 2006 may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce, reduced employee morale and decreased productivity. In addition, the trading levels of our stock have decreased the value of our stock options granted to employees under our stock option plans. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek alternate employment, such as with larger, more established companies or companies that they perceive as having less volatile stock prices or better prospects. Continuity of personnel is a very important factor in sales and implementation of our software and our product development efforts. Attrition or a material decrease in employee morale or productivity could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance and financial condition. YOU SHOULD NOT RELY ON OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS AS AN INDICATION OF OUR FUTURE RESULTS BECAUSE THEY ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT FLUCTUATIONS. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a variety of factors that could affect our revenues or our expenses in any particular quarter. We expect to continue to experience significant seasonality in our business related to the academic calendar and the corresponding demand for textbooks and educational materials. Due to the concentration of private middle and high schools in our Varsity Books school program, our revenues are concentrated in the traditional Fall back-to-school season of July, August and September, our third calendar quarter. During the third quarter of 2007, 2006, and 2005, our revenues were approximately 88%, 88%, and 86% of total annual revenues, respectively. We expect this trend to continue. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could cause our stock price to decline. You should not rely on sequential quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. Factors that may affect our quarterly results include: • seasonal trends in the textbook industry and in the buying habits of students; • concentration of private middle and high schools in our Varsity Books school program; • our ability to manage or influence inventory and fulfillment operations; • the level of merchandise returns we experience; • our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers, maintain customer satisfaction and respond to our competitors; • introduction of enhancements or a change in pricing policies, by us or our competitors, or a change in pricing policy by our fulfillment sources in the text book industry; • changes in the amount and timing of expenditures related to marketing, information technology and other operating expenses to support future growth; 11 • technical difficulties or system downtime affecting the Internet generally or the operation of our website specifically; • potential acquisitions or strategic alliances either by us or our competitors; and • general economic conditions, economic conditions specific to the Internet, eCommerce or the textbook industries As a result of the seasonal fluctuations and because the online sale of textbooks and online selling in general is relatively new and it is difficult to predict consumer demand, it is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, it is likely that the price of our stock would decline. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT INVENTORY RISK WITH OUR TEXTBOOKS. Our textbook inventory balance as of December 31, 2007 consisted mainly of: • New textbooks inventory primarily held at B&T, our fulfillment partner, acquired by B&T or by us in support of our Varsity Books program for which there generally are not standard return privileges with the publisher; and • Used textbooks held at B&T or other locations. Under our agreement with B&T in which B&T provides our order fulfillment and drop shipment services, B&T assumes ownership of all new textbooks until shipment and does not assume ownership of the used products it processes for us. Approximately 90% of new textbook unsold inventory at B&T is returned for credit with our publishers, which substantially reduces our risk of inventory obsolescence, however, we take title to the remaining unsold inventory and write down this balance for estimated excess and obsolete or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions on a quarterly basis. Should textbook return privileges extended to B&T or us by publishers materially change, we may face increased inventory risk and higher working capital requirements which could adversely affect our operating results. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ADAPT AS INTERNET TECHNOLOGIES AND CUSTOMER DEMANDS CONTINUE TO EVOLVE, OUR SERVICES AND PRODUCTS COULD BECOME LESS DESIRABLE. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer service levels. An unanticipated dramatic increase in the volume of traffic on our website or the number of orders placed by our customers may force us to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction-processing systems and network infrastructure. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately project the rate or timing of increases, if any, in the use of our website or timely expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such increases. To be successful, we must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually enhancing the technologies used in our Internet products and services and introducing new technology to address the changing needs of our business and customers. If we are unable, for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or business and customer requirements, our business could be harmed. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and provide high-quality customer service, largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. We may not immediately discover errors in any new system we adopt until the volume of orders placed by our customers significantly increases from the levels we experienced in our last fall back to school season. As a result, the upgraded website may not achieve the expected benefits. Unanticipated problems with our website may result in customer dissatisfaction, a loss of, or delays in, the market acceptance of our website, and lost revenue and collection difficulties during the period required to correct these errors. Failure to correct these problems may harm our reputation, our brand and our business. WE DEPEND ON A THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDER FOR OUR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INFRASTRUCTURE. IF OUR THIRD-PARTY SERVICE PROVIDER EXPERIENCES ANY SYSTEM FAILURE OR INADEQUACY, OUR OPERATIONS COULD BE JEOPARDIZED. 12 Our operations are dependent on our ability to maintain our computer and communications software and equipment in effective working order and to protect our systems against damage from fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure or similar events. In addition, the growth of our customer base may strain or exceed the capacity of our computer and communications systems and lead to degradations in performance or systems failure. Our success, in particular our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and provide high-quality customer service, largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. We use an internally developed system for our website, search engine and substantially all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, cash and credit card processing, purchasing, inventory management and shipping. Substantially all of our computer and communications hardware and software systems associated with the operation of our website are located at a single facility in Cleveland, Ohio, which hosts our server environment and acts as our Internet service provider. A disruption in this Internet service could cause a disruption in our ability to service our clients. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquake and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of data or the inability to accept and fulfill customer orders. Any damage, failure or delay that causes interruptions in our system operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to our offsite software and hardware related to our website, at our headquarters we maintain a local area network, or LAN, which we use for our financial reporting systems, customer service operations, monitoring of our customer orders, e-mails and other internal processes. Any loss of service or other failure of this LAN, regardless of the availability of our website, would significantly impair our ability to service our customers and monitor and fulfill customer orders, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The failure of either our website or our LAN or any other systems interruptions that results in unavailability of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance, especially during the peak Fall sales period of July/August/September, could result in negative publicity or could reduce the volume of goods sold and attractiveness of our website and would seriously impair our ability to service our customers’ orders, all of which could negatively affect our revenues. Because our servers are located at a third-party’s facility and because some of the reasons for a systems interruption may be outside of our control, we also may not be able to exercise sufficient control to remedy the problem quickly or at all. Regardless of whether we or a third-party controls or creates system failure, the occurrence of system failure could adversely affect our reputation, seriously harm our business and cause us to lose a significant and disproportionate amount of revenues. CONCERNS ABOUT SECURITY ON THE INTERNET MAY REDUCE THE USE OF OUR WEBSITE AND IMPEDE OUR GROWTH. A significant barrier to confidential communications over the Internet has been the need for security. We rely on SSL encryption technology designed to prevent the misappropriation of customer credit card data during the transaction process. Under current credit card practices, a merchant is liable for fraudulent credit card transactions where, as is the case with the transactions we process, that merchant does not obtain a cardholder’s signature. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could reduce our collections and harm our business. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurred. Our site could be particularly affected by any such breach because our online commerce model requires the entry of confidential customer ordering, purchasing and delivery data over the Internet, and we maintain a database of this historical customer information. Until more comprehensive security technologies are developed, the security and privacy concerns of existing and potential customers may inhibit the growth of the Internet as a medium for commerce. We cannot be certain that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in the compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect content and transactions on our website or proprietary information in our databases. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary, confidential customer or company information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of such security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO BURDENSOME GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND LEGAL UNCERTAINTIES AFFECTING THE INTERNET THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. To date, governmental regulations have not materially restricted use of the Internet in our markets. However, the legal and regulatory environment that pertains to the Internet is uncertain and may change. Uncertainty and new regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from delivering our products and services over the Internet. The growth of the Internet may also be significantly slowed. This could delay growth in demand for our online services and limit the growth of our 13 revenues. In addition to new laws and regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet. New and existing laws may cover issues, which include: • sales and other taxes; • user privacy; • pricing controls; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • consumer protection; • libel and defamation; • copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and • other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. DECREASED EFFECTIVENESS OF SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN EMPLOYEES. We have historically used stock options and other forms of stock-based compensation as key components of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation and benefit packages. In accordance with SFAS 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” we began recording charges to earnings for stock-based payments on January 1, 2006. As a result, we have incurred increased compensation costs associated with our stock-based compensation programs. Moreover, difficulties relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it harder or more expensive for us to grant stock-based payments to employees in the future. As a result, we may find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, and any such difficulty could materially adversely affect our business. AS INTERNET TECHNOLOGY AND REGULATION ADVANCES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR DOMAIN NAMES. We currently hold various Internet domain names relating to our brands, including the “VarsityBooks.com”, “VarsityGroup.com” and “Varsity-Group.com” domain names. Governmental agencies and their designees generally regulate the acquisition and maintenance of domain names. The regulation of domain names in the generic category of domain names (i.e., .com, .net and .org) is now controlled by a non-profit corporation, which may create additional top-level domains. Requirements for holding domain names have also been affected. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire or maintain relevant domain names. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any such inability could harm our business. SOME STATES MAY IMPOSE A NEW SALES TAX ON OUR BUSINESS. A 1992 Supreme Court decision held that the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution limits a state’s ability to impose a sales or use tax collection responsibility on an out-of-state vendor unless such vendor maintains a physical presence, i.e., substantial nexus, in the taxing state. Based on this Supreme Court decision, we have determined that we do not have a substantial nexus in some jurisdictions where our products are received by customers, and, therefore, do not collect or remit sales or use tax in such jurisdictions. Because the scope of the 1992 Supreme Court decision is unclear, states may challenge our determination of substantial nexus. If successful, such challenges could result in significant liabilities for sales and use taxes with a material and adverse effect on our business. We currently collect and remit sales or use tax on all shipments to approximately eighteen states. The 1992 Supreme Court decision also established that Congress has the power to enact legislation that would 14 permit states to require collection of sales and use taxes by mail-order companies. Congress has from time to time considered proposals for such legislation. We anticipate that any legislative change, if adopted, would be applied on a prospective basis. While there is no case law on the issue, we believe that this analysis could also apply to our online business. Recently, several states and local jurisdictions have expressed an interest in taxing e-commerce companies. IF OUR STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE, WE MAY BECOME SUBJECT TO SECURITIES LITIGATION WHICH IS EXPENSIVE AND COULD RESULT IN A DIVERSION OF RESOURCES. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs to us in defending against the lawsuit and a diversion of management’s attention that could cause our business to be harmed. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 