Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. References in this section to our fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each year. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Recent domestic and global economic conditions have presented unprecedented and challenging conditions reflecting continued concerns about the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, declining real estate values, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and spending and added concerns fueled by the U.S. federal government’s interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for 9 Table of Contents the U.S. and global economy. In addition, these conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause our U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which could cause our sales to decrease or result in an extension of our sales cycles. Further, given the current unfavorable economic environment, our customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or within our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue to be subject to these adverse economic conditions, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. At October 3, 2008, we had $141.4 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior secured notes outstanding due November 2010 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes outstanding. The convertible notes are due in March 2026, but the holders may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or part of their notes on March 1, 2011, March 1, 2016 and March 1, 2021 at a price of 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We also have an $80.0 million credit facility with a bank, under which we had borrowed $40.1 million as of October 3, 2008. The term of this credit facility has been extended through November 27, 2009, and the facility remains subject to additional 364-day extensions at the discretion of the bank. We lowered our borrowing limit on the credit facility, subject to the limits, terms and conditions of such facility to $50.0 million due to the to overall lower business volumes, primarily driven by the sale of the BMP business during fiscal 2008. Recent unfavorable economic conditions have led to a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in the credit and equity markets. In addition, if the economy or markets in which we operate continue to be subject to adverse economic conditions, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. If the credit markets remain difficult to access or worsen or our performance is unfavorable due to economic conditions or for any other reasons, we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to repay amounts due under (i) our credit facility expiring November 2009 (ii) our $141.4 million floating rate senior secured notes when they become due in November 2010 or earlier as a result of a mandatory offer to repurchase, and (iii) our $250.0 million convertible subordinated notes when they become due in March 2026 or earlier as a result of the mandatory repurchase requirements. The first mandatory repurchase date for our convertible subordinated notes is March 1, 2011. In the event we are unable to satisfy or refinance our debt obligations as the obligations are required to be paid, we will be required to consider strategic and other alternatives, including, among other things, the negotiation of revised terms of our indebtedness, the exchange of new securities for existing indebtedness obligations and the sale of assets to generate funds. There is no assurance that we would be successful in completing any of these alternatives. Further, we may not be able to refinance any portion of this debt on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to satisfy or refinance any of our indebtedness obligations as they come due would result in a cross default and potential acceleration of our remaining indebtedness obligations, and would have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, in the future, we may need to make strategic investments and acquisitions to help us grow our business, which may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of United States and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. We continually face significant competition in our markets. This competition results in declining average selling prices for our products. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities, 10 Table of Contents technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • level of integration; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. Many of our current and potential competitors have a stronger financial position, less indebtedness and greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, the financial stability of suppliers is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Our relationship with existing and potential customers could be adversely affected if our customers perceive that we lack an appropriate level of financial stability. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Our operating and financing flexibility is limited by the terms of our senior notes and our credit facility. The terms of our credit facility and floating rate senior notes contain financial and other covenants that may limit our ability or prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe are in the best interests of our business and our stockholders. For example, our floating rate secured senior notes indenture contains covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the Company’s ability and the ability of its restricted subsidiaries to: incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain redeemable or preferred stock; repurchase capital stock; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of its capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; create liens; redeem junior debt; sell certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale-leaseback transactions. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that could help to grow our business or increase the value of our securities. We own or lease a significant amount of space in which we do not conduct operations and doing so exposes us to the financial risks of default by our tenants and subtenants. As a result of our various reorganization and restructuring related activities, we lease or own a number of domestic facilities in which we do not operate. At October 3, 2008, we had 580,000 square feet of vacant leased space and 403,000 square feet of owned space, of which approximately 78% is being sub-leased to third parties and 22% is currently vacant and offered for sublease. Included in these amounts are 389,000 square feet of owned space 11 Table of Contents in Newport Beach that we have leased to Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. and 126,000 square feet of leased space in Newport Beach that we have sub-leased to Mindspeed Technologies, Inc. The aggregate amount owed to landlords under space we lease but do not operate over the remaining terms of the leases is approximately $93.3 million and, of this amount, we have subtenants that currently have lease obligations to us in the aggregate amount of $22.7 million. The space we have subleased to others is, in some cases, at rates less than the amounts we are required to pay landlords and, of the aggregate obligations we have to landlords for unused space, approximately $49.4 million is attributable to space we are attempting to sublease. In the event one or more of our subtenants fails to make lease payments to us or otherwise defaults on their obligations to us, we could incur substantial unanticipated payment obligations to landlords. In addition, in the event tenants of space we own fail to make lease payments to us or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could be required to seek new tenants and we cannot assure that our efforts to do so would be successful or that the rates at which we could do so would be attractive. In the event our estimates regarding our ability to sublet our available space are incorrect, we would be required to adjust our restructuring reserves which could have a material impact on our financial results in the future. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In order to maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, NASDAQ rules require that we maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. Our common stock is currently and has in the past fallen below this minimum bid price requirement and it may do so again in the future. NASDAQ has currently suspended this bid price requirement through January 19, 2009. However, if NASDAQ does not further extend this suspension and our stock price is below $1.00 at the time the suspension is lifted or falls below $1.00 after that time or if we in the future fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, our common stock could be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Select Market if we are unable to cure the events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner. If our common stock were threatened with delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market, we may, depending on the circumstances, seek to extend the period for regaining compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements by moving our common stock to the NASDAQ Capital Market. For example, if appropriate, we may request, as we have done in the past, approval by our stockholders to implement a reverse stock split in order to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement. If our common stock is not eligible for quotation on another market or exchange, trading of our common stock could be conducted in the over-the-counter market or on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. In such event, it could become more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock, and there would likely also be a reduction in our coverage by security analysts and the news media, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline further. In addition, in the event that our common stock is delisted, we would be in default under the terms and conditions of our floating rate senior secured notes as well as our convertible subordinated notes. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products and reduce costs. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others, our ability to: • anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • accurately define new products; • complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • achieve overall market acceptance of our products; 12 Table of Contents • coordinate product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China, to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. In addition, prices of established products may decline, sometimes significantly and rapidly, over time. We believe that in order to remain competitive we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful and as a result gross margins may decline in future periods. Our revenues, cash flow from operations and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, particularly given adverse domestic and global economic conditions. Our revenues, cash flow and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • adverse economic conditions, including the unavailability or high cost of credit to our customers; • the inability of our customers to forecast demand based on adverse economic conditions; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effect of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these as well as other factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We have recently incurred substantial losses and may incur additional future losses. Our net losses from continuing operations for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $133.4 million, $221.2 million, and $97.1 million respectively. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and operating cash flows. Our primary sources of liquidity include borrowing under our credit facility, available cash and cash equivalents. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from product sales, will be sufficient to fund our operations, research and development, anticipated capital expenditures and working capital for at least the next twelve months. However, we cannot provide any assurance that our business 13 Table of Contents will become profitable or that we will not incur additional substantial losses in the future. Additional operating losses or lower than expected product sales will adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition and could impair our ability to satisfy our indebtedness obligations as such obligations come due. If at a future date we are unable to demonstrate that we have sufficient cash to meet our obligations for at least the following 12 months, we may no longer be able to use the “going concern” basis of presentation in our financial statements. The receipt of a “going concern” qualification in future financial statements would likely adversely impact our ability to access the capital and credit markets and impede our ability to conduct business with suppliers and customers. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At October 3, 2008, we had $110.4 million of goodwill and $15.0 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 28% of our total assets. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our market capitalization drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, if our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or if other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a non-cash charge against earnings. During fiscal 2008, we recorded goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges of $108.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively, which had a material negative impact on our results of continuing operations. Because of the significance of our remaining goodwill and intangible asset balances, any future impairment of these assets could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although, as a non-cash charge, it would have no effect on our cash flow. Significant impairments may also impact shareholders’ equity. The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our twenty largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 71%, 72% and 68% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. For fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, there was one distribution customer that accounted for 16%, 16% and 12% of our net revenues, respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; and • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products. • some of our customers’ liquidity may be negatively affected by the recent domestic and global credit crisis In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain 14 Table of Contents existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, PC, and consumer markets. Current unfavorable domestic and global economic conditions are likely to have an adverse impact on demand in these end-user markets by reducing overall consumer spending or shifting consumer spending to products other than those made by our customers. Reduced sales by our customers in these end-markets will adversely impact demand by our customers for our products and could also slow new product introductions by our customers and by us. Lower net sales of our product would have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For each of fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 approximately 95% of our net revenues were from customers located outside of the United States, primarily in the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, a significant portion of our workforce and many of our key suppliers are located outside of the United States. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • local economic and political conditions; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity or armed conflict; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; and • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities. Approximately $35.4 million of our $105.9 million of cash and cash equivalents at October 3, 2008 is located in foreign countries where we conduct business, including approximately $20.7 million in India and $4.0 million in China. These amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the United States without the imposition and payment, where applicable, of local taxes. Further, the repatriation of these funds is subject to compliance with applicable local government laws and regulations, and in some cases, requires government consent, including in India and China. Our inability to repatriate these funds quickly and without any required government consents may limit the resources available to us to fund our operations in the United States and other locations or to pay indebtedness. Because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. 15 Table of Contents We also conduct a significant portion of our international sales through distributors. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 39%, 42% and 40% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our arrangements with these distributors are terminable at any time, and the loss of these arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because our markets generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; and • evolving industry standards. For example, a portion of our analog modem business that is bundled into PCs is becoming debundled as broadband communications become more ubiquitous. Several of our PC OEM customers have indicated that the trend toward debundling may become more significant, which may have an adverse effect on both our revenues and profitability. Further, our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. We have incurred substantial expense settling certain intellectual property litigation in the past, such as our $70.0 million charge in fiscal 2006 related to the settlement of our patent infringement litigation with Texas Instruments Incorporated. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 16 Table of Contents If OEMs of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins.” Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need six months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. The lengthy period of time required also increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate sales to that customer. Thus, we may incur significant research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 39%, 42% and 40% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other suppliers’ products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact the distributors’ future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Therefore, our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer production capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we risk experiencing delays in access to key process technologies, production or shipments and increased manufacturing costs. Moreover, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build or expand wafer fabrication facilities. However, current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased the level of liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. These conditions may make it difficult for foundries to obtain adequate or historical levels of capital to finance the building or expansion of their wafer fabrication facilities, which would have an adverse impact on their production capacity and could in turn negatively impact our wafer output. In addition, certain of our suppliers have required that we keep in place stand by letters of credit for all or part of the products we order. Such requirement, or a requirement that we shorten our payment cycle times in the future, may 17 Table of Contents negatively impact our liquidity and cash position, or may not be available to us due to our then current liquidity or cash position, and would have a negative impact on our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and testing of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks that we have with respect to our reliance on outside wafer fabrication facilities. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a wafer fabrication process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for our products. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer production capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. All such delays or disruptions could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis and may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products, as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition efficiently, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could negatively affect our relationships with our customers and result in the loss of design wins to our competitors, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. 18 Table of Contents If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times, we incorporate the intellectual property of our customers into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Uncertainties involving litigation could adversely affect our business. We and certain of our current and former officers and our Employee Benefits Plan Committee have been named as defendants in a purported breach of fiduciary duties class action lawsuit. Although we believe that this lawsuit is without merit, an adverse determination could have a negative impact on our results of operation and the price of our stock. Moreover, regardless of the ultimate result, this or other lawsuits may divert management’s attention and resources from other matters, which could also adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances, acquisitions and where appropriate, divestitures and restructurings. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in: • large initial one-time write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our product lines and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, in the event that we have 19 Table of Contents unprofitable operations or product lines we may be forced to restructure or divest such operations or product lines. There is no guarantee that we will be able to restructure or divest such operations or product lines on a timely basis or at a value that will avoid further losses or that will successfully mitigate the negative impact on our overall operations or financial results. We are required to use proceeds of certain asset dispositions to offer to repurchase our Floating Rate Senior Secured Notes due November 2010 if we do not use the proceeds within 360 days to invest in assets (other than current assets), and this requirement limits our ability to use asset sale proceeds to fund our operations. At October 3, 2008, we had $141.4 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior secured notes outstanding. We are required to repurchase, for cash, notes at a price of 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, with the net proceeds of certain asset dispositions if such proceeds are not used within 360 days to invest in assets (other than current assets) related to our business. The sale of our Broadband Media Processing business in August 2008 qualified as an asset disposition requiring us to make offers to repurchase a portion of the notes no later than 361 days following the respective asset dispositions. In September 2008, we completed a tender offer for $80 million of the senior secured notes. Based on the proceeds received from this asset disposition and our estimates of cash investments in assets (other than current assets) related to our business to be made within 360 days following the asset dispositions, we estimate that we will be required to make offers to repurchase approximately $17.7 million of the senior secured notes, at 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. This requirement limits our ability to use existing and future asset sale proceeds to fund our operations. The value of our common stock may be adversely affected by market volatility and other factors. The trading price of our common stock fluctuates significantly and may be influenced by many factors, including: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our ability to repay our debt; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry and markets in which we operate; • our inclusion in, or removal from, any equity market indices; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • judgments favorable or adverse to us; and • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel at all levels of our business. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. 20 Table of Contents We currently operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. While we believe we qualify for these incentives that reduce our income taxes and operating costs, the incentives require us to meet specified criteria which are subject to audit and review. We cannot assure that we will continue to meet such criteria and enjoy such tax holidays and incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 