Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, our past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate our results or trends in future periods. We are materially dependent on acceptance of our products by the law enforcement, both domestic and international, and Federal markets. If law enforcement agencies do not continue to purchase our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. A substantial number of law enforcement and corrections agencies may not purchase our CEWs or video products. Law enforcement and corrections agencies may be influenced by claims or perceptions that CEWs, such as our products, are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner. In addition, earlier generation CEWs may have been perceived as ineffective. Sales of our products to these agencies may be delayed or limited by these claims or perceptions. We substantially depend on sales of our TASER X26, X26P and X2 CEWs, and if these products do not continue to be widely accepted, our growth prospects will be diminished. In the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we derived our revenues predominantly from sales of the TASER X26 and TASER X2 brand devices and related cartridges, and expect to depend on sales of these products for the foreseeable future. We are seeing a large number of customers upgrade their devices to the X2 or the new X26P device, which we introduced in January 2013. 14 Table of Contents This is a trend we expect to continue. A decrease in the prices of, or demand for these products, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. The success of our EVIDENCE.COM Software-as-a-Service delivery model is materially dependent on acceptance of this business model by our law enforcement customers. Delayed or lengthy time to adoption by law enforcement agencies will negatively impact our sales and profitability. A substantial number of law enforcement agencies may be slow to adopt our EVIDENCE.COM digital data evidence management and storage solution, requiring extended periods of trial and evaluation. The hosted service delivery business model is not presently widely adopted by our law enforcement customer base. As such, the sales cycle has additional complexity with the need to educate our customers and address issues regarding agency bandwidth requirements, data retention policies, data security and chain of evidence custody. Delays in successfully securing widespread adoption of EVIDENCE.COM services could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. If we are unable to design, introduce and sell new products or new product features successfully, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products or new product features that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new products and new product features is complex, time consuming and expensive, and we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We cannot provide any assurance that products that we may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop new products or new product features on a timely basis that achieve market acceptance, our business, financial results and competitive position could be adversely affected. Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development of software products such as EVIDENCE.COM is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on our SaaS platform also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. We face risks associated with rapid technological change and new competing products. The technology associated with law enforcement devices is receiving significant attention and is rapidly evolving. While we have patent protection in key areas of our CEW, video and SaaS technology, it is possible that new technology may result in competing products that operate outside our patents and could present significant competition for our products. Defects in our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at any point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation and increased warranty costs, which could have a material adverse effect on profitability and financial condition. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to customers’ data or our data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. We devote significant resources to engineer secure products and ensure security vulnerabilities are mitigated. Despite these efforts, security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. Breaches could occur during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in unauthorized access to our data or our customers’ data. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data or our customers’ data. Additionally, hackers may develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack or gain access to our networks and data centers. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. 15 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party cloud storage providers for our EVIDENCE.COM service, or the loss or corruption of digitally stored evidence, would impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our EVIDENCE.COM customers from a third-party cloud storage provider based in the United States and other countries. Interruptions in our service, or loss or corruption of digital evidence, may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. Most of our end-user customers are subject to budgetary and political constraints, particularly in the currently challenging economic environment, that may delay or prevent sales. Most of our end-user customers are government agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore, have limited control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if an agency wants to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. Currently, many governmental agencies are continuing to experience severe budgetary constraints. There can be no assurance that the economic and budgeting issues will not worsen and adversely impact sales of our products. Some government agency orders may also be canceled or substantially delayed due to budgetary, political or other scheduling delays which frequently occur in connection with the acquisition of products by such agencies and such cancellations may accelerate or be more severe than we have experienced historically as a result of the current economic environment. We expend significant resources in anticipation of a sale due to our lengthy sales cycle and may receive no revenue in return. Generally, law enforcement and corrections agencies consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, training costs, the cost to use our products in addition to, or in place of, other products, budget constraints and product reliability, safety and efficacy. The length of our sales cycle may range from a few weeks to as long as several years. Adverse publicity surrounding our products or the safety of such products has in the past, and could in the future, lengthen our sales cycle with customers. In the past, we believe that the Company’s sales were adversely impacted by negative publicity surrounding our products or the use of our products. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and received no revenue in return. We may face personal injury, wrongful death and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our CEW products are often used in aggressive confrontations that may result in serious, permanent bodily injury or death to those involved. Our CEW products may be associated with these injuries. A person, or the family members of a person, injured in a confrontation or otherwise in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including wrongful death, personal injury, negligent design, defective product or inadequate warning. We are currently subject to a number of such lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. If successful, wrongful death, personal injury, misuse and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could result in negative publicity about our products. Although we carry product liability insurance, we do incur significant legal expenses within our self-insured retention in defending these lawsuits and significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources, negative publicity and a potential award of monetary damages in excess of our insurance coverage. For example, primarily as the result of one significant product liability judgment against the Company (the Turner case), the Company has exhausted its insurance coverage for the 2008 insurance policy year. And, if the Company is unsuccessful on its appeal of the Turner case, or there are material judgments, settlements or costs relating to other 2008 insurance policy year, the Company will not have insurance coverage to offset any such payments. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that our existing or any future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our financial condition or financial results. 16 Table of Contents Other pending litigation may subject us to significant litigation costs and judgments and divert management attention from our business. We are involved in numerous other litigation matters relating to our products, including litigation against persons who we believe have infringed on our intellectual property, litigation against a competitor and litigation with a former distributor. Such matters have resulted, and are expected to continue to result in, substantial costs to us and some diversion of our management’s attention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose our competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management attention from our business. Our future success depends upon our proprietary technology. Our protective measures, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, and internet identity registrations, may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights and market advantage. The right to stop others from misusing our trademarks and service marks in commerce depends, to some extent, on our ability to show evidence of enforcement of our rights against such misuse in commerce. Our efforts to stop improper use, if insufficient, may lead to loss of trademark and service mark rights, brand loyalty and notoriety among our customers and prospective customers. The scope of any patent to which we have or may obtain rights to may not prevent others from developing and selling competing products. The validity and breadth of claims covered in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions, and the resolution of such claims may be highly uncertain, lengthy and expensive. In addition, our patents may be held invalid upon challenge, or others may claim rights in or ownership of our patents. Moreover, we are subject to litigation with parties that claim, among other matters, that we infringed their patents or other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of patent and other intellectual property claims are both costly and time consuming and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial position. Also, any intellectual property infringement claims against us, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and divert our management’s attention from our business. If our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be forced to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to be able to sell our products or discontinue use of the protected technology. Such royalty and licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. There is no guarantee that our use of conventional technology searching and brand clearance searching will identify all potential rights holders. Rights holders may demand payment for past infringements and/or force us to accept costly license terms or discontinue use of protected technology and/or works of authorship that may include, for example, photos, videos, and software. Our current research and development focus on developing software-based products increases this risk. If we face competition in foreign countries, we can enforce patent rights only in the jurisdictions in which our patent applications have been granted. Our United States patents protect us from imported infringing products coming into the United States from abroad. Applications for patents in a few foreign countries have been made; however, these may be inadequate to protect markets for our products in other foreign countries. Each foreign patent is examined and granted according to the law of the country where it was filed independent of whether a United States patent on similar technology was granted. A patent in a foreign country may be subject to cancellation if the claimed invention has not been sold in that country. Meeting the requirements of working the invention differs by country and ranges from sales in the country to manufacturing in the country. United States export law, or the laws of some foreign countries, may prohibit us from satisfying the requirements for working the invention, creating a risk that some of our foreign patents may become unenforceable. Government regulations applied to our products may affect our markets for these products. We rely on the opinions of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, including the determination that a device that has projectiles propelled by the release of compressed gas in place of the expanding gases from ignited gunpowder, are not classified as firearms. Changes in statutes, regulations, and interpretation outside of our control may result in our products being classified or reclassified as firearms. Our private citizen market could be substantially reduced if consumers are required to obtain a registration to own a firearm prior to purchasing our products. 17 Table of Contents Government regulation of our products may adversely affect sales. Federal regulation of sales in the United States: With the exceptions of the TASER XREP, our CEWs are not firearms regulated by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, but our consumer products are regulated by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission. Although there are currently no Federal laws restricting sales of our core CEW products in the United States, future Federal regulation could adversely affect sales of our products. Federal regulation of international sales: Our CEW devices are considered a “crime control” product by the United States Department of Commerce (“DOC”) for export directly from the United States. Consequently, we must obtain an export license from the DOC for the export of our CEW devices from the United States other than to Canada. In addition, certain of our camera and software products require classifications from the DOC before they may be shipped internationally. Our inability to obtain DOC export licenses or classifications on a timely basis for sales of our products to our international customers could significantly and adversely affect our international sales. State and local regulation: Our devices are controlled, restricted or their use prohibited by a number of state and local governments. Our devices are banned from private citizen sale or use by statute in six states: District of Columbia, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island. Some cities and municipalities also prohibit private citizen possession or use of our products. Other jurisdictions may ban or restrict the sale of our products and our product sales may be significantly affected by additional state, county and city governmental regulation. Foreign regulation: Certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit the sale, possession or use of CEWs, limiting our international sales opportunities. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. We may be subject to various state, Federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in our products and making producers for those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal. Environmental legislation within the European Union (“EU”) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these requirements. The EU has published Directives on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the “RoHS Directive”) and on electronic and electrical waste management (the “WEEE Directive”). The RoHS Directive restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. The WEEE Directive directs members of the EU to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the EU. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the United States (under federal and state laws) and other countries, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. We continue to monitor the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by the RoHS and WEEE Directives. We endeavor to comply with applicable environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs, increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacturing, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, limit our sales activities, and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. In August 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as “conflict minerals,” in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies to perform due diligence, disclose and report whether or not such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. In addition, these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in our products. Because our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such an event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Our dependence on third-party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or sub-assemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of sub-assemblies, machined parts, injection molded plastic parts, printed circuit boards, custom wire fabrications and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Due to changes imposed for imports of foreign products into the United States, as well as potential port closures and delays created by terrorist attacks or threats, public health issues or national disasters, we are exposed to risk of delays caused by freight carriers or customs clearance issues for our imported parts. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Component shortages could result in our inability to produce at a volume to adequately meet customer demand, which could result in a loss of sales, delay in deliveries and injury to our reputation. Single or sole-source components used in the manufacture of our products may become unavailable or discontinued. Delays caused by industry allocations or obsolescence may take weeks or months to resolve. In some cases, parts obsolescence may require a product re-design to ensure quality replacement components. These delays could cause significant delays in manufacturing and loss of sales, leading to adverse effects significantly impacting our financial condition or results of operations. We may experience a decline in gross margins due to rising raw material and transportation costs associated with a future increase in petroleum prices. A significant number of our raw materials are comprised of petroleum-based products, or incur some form of landed cost associated with transporting the raw materials or components to our facility. A significant rise in oil prices could adversely impact our ability to sustain current gross margins, by increasing component pricing. To the extent demand for our products increases, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to manage our growth and to increase manufacturing production capacity, which may be accomplished by the implementation of customized manufacturing automation equipment. To the extent demand for our products increases significantly in future periods, one of our key challenges will be to increase our production capacity to meet sales demand while maintaining product quality. Our primary strategies to accomplish this include introducing additional shifts, increasing the physical size of our assembly facilities, the hiring of additional production staff, and the implementation of additional customized automation equipment. The investments we make in this equipment may not yield the anticipated labor and material efficiencies. Our inability to meet any future increase in sales demand or effectively manage our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and financial condition. Our future success is dependent on our ability to expand sales through distributors and direct sales and our inability to recruit new distributors or increase direct sales would negatively affect our sales. Our distribution strategy is to pursue sales through multiple channels with an emphasis on independent distributors and direct sales. Our inability to establish relationships with, and retain law enforcement equipment distributors, who we believe can successfully sell our products, would adversely affect our sales. In addition, our arrangements with our distributors are generally short-term. We are also focusing on direct sales to larger agencies through our regional sales managers and our inability to grow sales to these agencies in this manner could adversely affect our sales. If we do not competitively price our products, meet the requirements of our distributors or end-users, provide adequate marketing support, or comply with the terms of our distribution arrangements, our distributors may fail to aggressively market our products or may terminate their relationships with us. These developments would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our reliance on the sales of our products by others also makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash flow and operating results. The increased focus on direct sales compared to sales through distribution is dependent on our ability to sell into the states that have established distributor relationships. In certain states we have decided to pursue sales directly with law enforcement customers, rather than working through established distribution channels. Our customers may have strong working relationships with distributors and we may face resistance to this change. If we do not overcome this resistance and effectively build a direct relationship with our customers, sales may be adversely affected. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. We may consider acquisitions or joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don’t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration or coordination of new employees, business systems, and technology, or there is a diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to: • budgetary cycles of municipal, state and Federal law enforcement and corrections agencies; • market acceptance of our products and services; • the timing of large domestic and international orders; • the outcome of any existing or future litigation; • adverse publicity surrounding our products, the safety of our products, or the use of our products; • changes in our sales mix; • new product introduction costs; • increased raw material expenses; • changes in our operating expenses; and • regulatory changes that may affect the marketability of our products; As a result of these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful in the short term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our competitiveness and sales in foreign markets. The relative change in currency values creates fluctuations in our product pricing for potential international customers. These changes in foreign end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. These changes may also negatively affect the financial condition of some existing or potential foreign customers and reduce or eliminate their future orders of our products. We also import selected components which are used in the manufacturing of some of our products. Although our purchase orders are in United States dollar, weakness in the United States dollar could lead to price increases for the components. We maintain all of our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances, some of which are not insured, at three depository institutions. We maintain the majority of our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment accounts at three depository institutions. As of December 31, 2012, our aggregate balances in such accounts were $37.8 million. The Company’s balances with these institutions regularly exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insured limits; however, to manage the related credit exposure, we continually monitor the credit worthiness of the financial institutions where we have deposits. We could suffer losses with respect to the uninsured balances if the depositary institutions failed and the institution’s assets were insufficient to cover its deposits and/or the Federal government did not take actions to support deposits in excess of existing FDIC insurance limits. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key management and technical personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our officers, the employment of such persons is “at-will” and either we or the employee can terminate the employment relationship at any time, subject to the applicable terms of the employment agreements. The competition for our key employees is intense. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 