ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS We are subject to certain risks in our business operations which are described below. Careful consideration of these risks should be made before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing 21st Century. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural and man-made disasters. We write insurance policies that cover homeowners', business owners and automobile owners for losses that result from, among other things, catastrophes. Catastrophic losses can be caused by hurricanes, tropical storms, tornadoes, wind, hail, fires, riots and explosions, and their incidence and severity are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of two factors: the total amount of the insurance company's exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. Our policyholders are currently concentrated in South and Central Florida, which is especially subject to adverse weather conditions such as hurricanes and tropical storms. During the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2005, the State of Florida experienced nine hurricanes. One of our subsidiaries, Federated National, incurred significant losses relative to its homeowners’ and mobile homeowners’ insurance lines of business in connection with these catastrophic weather events. Aggregate losses in connection with these storms involved over 23,000 claims at a cost in excess of $69.4 million, net of our reinsurance participation. The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events could result in substantial volatility in our results of operations or financial condition for any fiscal quarter or year. Increases in the values and concentrations of insured property may also increase the severity of these occurrences in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to such events through the use of underwriting controls and the purchase of third-party reinsurance, catastrophic events are inherently unpredictable and the actual nature of such events when they occur could be more frequent or severe than contemplated in our pricing and risk management expectations. As a result, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Although we follow the industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our risks, our costs of obtaining reinsurance fluctuates and we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance arrangements. The State of Florida has a history of exposure to extremely volatile weather related catastrophic events including hurricanes and tornados. The frequency and severity of these events can have a profound impact on our balance sheet and statements of operations and cash flows. Though the Company attempts to mitigate the impact of these events, there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We have a reinsurance structure that is a combination of private reinsurance and the FHCF. Our reinsurance structure is comprised of several reinsurance companies with varying levels of participation providing coverage for loss and LAE at pre-established minimum and maximum amounts. Losses incurred in connection with a catastrophic event below the minimum and above the maximum are the responsibility of Federated National. -24- 21st Century Holding Company As a result of the nine hurricanes experienced in Florida during the fourteen month period between August 2004 and October 2005, and changes in Florida law in 2007 regarding the pricing and availability of reinsurance, we continue to review, and may determine to modify, our reinsurance structure. Though there has been no occurrence of hurricanes in Florida within the last two hurricane seasons, some weather analysts believe that we have entered a period of greater hurricane activity while others suggest a diminished expectation for the near future. To address this risk, we are exploring alternatives to reduce our exposure to these types of storms. Although these measures may increase operating expenses, management believes that they will assist us in protecting long-term profitability, although there can be no assurances that will be the case. The availability and costs associated with the acquisition of reinsurance will vary year to year. These fluctuations, which can be significant, are not subject to our control and may limit our ability to purchase adequate coverage. The recovery of increased reinsurance costs through rate action is not immediate and can not be presumed, as it is subject to OIR approval. Insolvency of our primary reinsurer or any of our other current or future reinsurers including the FHCF, or their inability otherwise to pay claims, would increase the claims that we must pay, thereby potentially harming significantly our balance sheet, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, prevailing market conditions have increased the availability and limited the cost of reinsurance, although there can be no assurances that these conditions will persist. We may experience financial exposure from climate change. Our financial exposure from climate change is most notably associated with losses in connection with the occurrence of hurricanes striking Florida. We mitigate the risk of financial exposure from climate change by restrictive underwriting criteria, sensitivity to geographic concentrations and reinsurance. Restrictive underwriting criteria can include, but are not limited to, higher premiums and deductibles and more specifically excluded policy risks such as fences and screened-in enclosures. New technological advances in computer generated geographical mapping afford us an enhanced perspective as to geographic concentrations of policyholders and proximity to flood prone areas. Our amount of maximum reinsurance coverage is determined by subjecting our homeowner and mobile homeowner exposures to statistical forecasting models that are designed to quantify a catastrophic event in terms of the frequency of a storm occurring once in every “n” years. Our reinsurance coverage contemplated a catastrophic event occurring once every 100 years. Our amount of losses retained (our deductible) in connection with a catastrophic event is determined by market capacity, pricing conditions and surplus preservation. Our loss reserves may be inadequate to cover our actual liability for losses, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. We maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liabilities for loss and LAE. These reserves are estimates based on historical data and statistical projections of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances then known to us. Actual loss and LAE reserves, however, may vary significantly from our estimates. Factors that affect unpaid loss and LAE include the estimates made on a claim-by-claim basis known as “case reserves” coupled with bulk estimates known as “incurred by not reported.” Periodic estimates by management of the ultimate costs required to settle all claim files are based on our analysis of historical data and estimations of the impact of numerous factors such as (i) per claim information; (ii) company and industry historical loss experience; (iii) legislative enactments, judicial decisions, legal developments in the awarding of damages, and changes in political attitudes; and (iv) trends in general economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. Management revises its estimates based on the results of its analysis. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for estimating the ultimate settlement of all claims. There is no precise method for subsequently evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of the reserves, because the eventual redundancy or deficiency is affected by multiple factors. Because of the uncertainties that surround estimated loss reserves, we cannot be certain that our reserves will be adequate to cover our actual losses. If our reserves for unpaid losses and LAE are less than actual losses and LAE, we will be required to increase our reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. For example, during the quarter ended December 31, 2006 we increased our reserves in connection with our homeowners’ and commercial general liability insurance programs upon the advice of our newly appointed actuaries. Future loss experience substantially in excess of our reserves for unpaid losses and LAE could substantially harm our results of operations and financial condition. -25- 21st Century Holding Company Our revenues and operating performance will fluctuate due to statutorily approved assessments that support property and casualty insurance pools and associations. We operate in a regulatory environment where certain entities and organizations have the authority to require us to participate in assessments. Currently these entities and organizations include, but are not limited to, the Florida Joint Underwriters Association (“JUA”), FIGA, Citizens and the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund. The current assessments stem from the catastrophic effects to the property insurance industry in the State of Florida from the hurricanes that occurred during the fourteen months between August 2004 and October 2005. Most of the recent assessments result in a charge to current operations. The insurance companies will then pass the assessments on to insurance policies, in the form of a policy surcharge, and reflect the collection of these assessments as fully earned credits to operations in the period collected. The collection of these fees may adversely affect our over all marketing strategy due to the competitive landscape in Florida. All other pricing considerations remaining the same, a newly formed property insurance company would not be subject to the recoupment of previously imposed assessments. Future assessments are likely, however the impact of these assessments on our balance sheet, results of operations or cash flow are undeterminable at this time. Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses, which would significantly reduce our earnings. As do other insurance companies, we depend on income from our investment portfolio for a substantial portion of our earnings. During the time that normally elapses between the receipt of insurance premiums and any payment of insurance claims, we invest the funds received, together with our other available capital, primarily in fixed-maturity investments and to a lesser extent in equity securities, in order to generate investment income. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. A significant increase in interest rates or decrease in credit worthiness could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Generally, bond prices decrease as interest rates rise. Changes in interest rates could also have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations. For example, if interest rates decline, investment of new premiums received and funds reinvested will earn less than expected. For example, we determined that one of our securities qualified for other than temporary impairment status during the three months ended September 30, 2007. In connection with this process we charged to operations a net realized investment loss that totaled approximately $797,000, net of an estimated provisional tax effect of approximately $481,000. This investment was subsequently sold during the three months ended December 31, 2007, and we recognized an additional $200,000 loss, net of an estimated tax benefit of approximately $122,000 in connection with this security. We face risks in connection with potential material weakness resulting from our Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 management report and any related remedial measures that we undertake. In conjunction with our ongoing reporting obligations as a public company and the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, management reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. In order to identify any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we engaged in a process to document, evaluate and test our internal controls and procedures, including corrections to existing controls and implement additional controls and procedures that we may deem necessary. As a result of this evaluation and testing process, no material financial reporting deficiencies were noted. Although we did not have any material weaknesses in our internal controls for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, we can not be certain that there will be none in the future. In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, the correction of any such significant deficiencies or material weaknesses could require additional remedial measures that could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, the discovery of material weaknesses could also require the restatement of prior period operating results. If a material weakness exists as of a future period year-end (including a material weakness identified prior to year-end for which there is an insufficient period of time to evaluate and confirm the effectiveness of the corrections or related new procedures), our management will be unable to report favorably as of such future period year-end as to the effectiveness of our control over financial reporting and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price and potentially subject us to litigation. The failure of any of the loss limitation methods we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or our results of operations. Various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage which have been negotiated to limit our risks, may not be enforceable in the manner we intend. At the present time we employ a variety of endorsements to our policies that limit exposure to known risks, including, but not limited to, exclusions relating to types of vehicles we insure, specific artisan activities and homes in close proximity to the coast line. -26- 21st Century Holding Company In addition, the policies we issue contain conditions requiring the prompt reporting of claims to us and our right to decline coverage in the event of a violation of that condition. While our insurance product exclusions and limitations reduce the loss exposure to us and help eliminate known exposures to certain risks, it is possible that a court or regulatory authority could nullify or void an exclusion or legislation could be enacted modifying or barring the use of such endorsements and limitations in a way that would adversely effect our loss experience, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. Our failure to pay claims accurately could adversely affect our business, financial results and capital requirements. We must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under our policies. Many factors affect our ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of our claims representatives, the culture of our claims organization and the effectiveness of our management, our ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support our claims functions and other factors. Our failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine our reputation in the marketplace, impair our image and negatively affect our financial results. In addition, if we do not train new claims adjusting employees effectively or if we lose a significant number of experienced claims adjusting employees, our claims department’s ability to handle an increasing workload as we grow could be adversely affected. In addition to potentially requiring that growth be slowed in the affected markets, we could suffer decreased quality of claims work, which in turn could lower our operating margins. If we are unable to continue our growth because our capital must be used to pay greater than anticipated claims, our financial results may suffer. Our future growth will depend on our ability to expand the types of insurance products we offer and the geographic markets in which we do business, both balanced by the business risks we chose to assume and cede. We believe that our Company is sufficiently capitalized to operate our business as it now exists and as we currently plan to expand it. Our existing sources of funds include possible sales of our investment securities and our earnings from operations and investments. Unexpected catastrophic events in our market areas, such as the hurricanes experienced in Florida, have resulted and may result in greater claims losses than anticipated, which could require us to limit or halt our growth while we redeploy our capital to pay these unanticipated claims. We may require additional capital in the future which may not be available or only available on unfavorable terms. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover losses. To the extent that our present capital is insufficient to meet future operating requirements and/or cover losses, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth. Based on our current operating plan, we believe current capital, together with our anticipated retained earnings, will support our operations without the need to raise additional capital. However, we cannot provide any assurance in that regard, since many factors will affect our capital needs and their amount and timing, including our growth and profitability, our claims experience, and the availability of reinsurance, as well as possible acquisition opportunities, market disruptions and other unforeseeable developments. If we had to raise additional capital, equity or debt financing may not be available at all or may be available only on terms that are not favorable to us. In the case of equity financings, dilution to our stockholders’ ownership could result, and in any case such securities may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. -27- 21st Century Holding Company Our business is heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation in the states in which we conduct business. This regulation is generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, as opposed to shareholders and other investors, and relates to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements, investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates, dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other financial and non-financial components of an insurance company’s business. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are constantly reexamining existing laws and regulations, generally focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. From time to time, some states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. In other situations, states in which we conduct business have considered or enacted laws that impact the competitive environment and marketplace for property and casualty insurance. For example, in 2007 Florida enacted legislation that requires us to charge rates for homeowners insurance that we believe are inadequate to cover the related underwriting risk. This same legislation authorizes a state-owned insurance company to reduce its premium rates and begin competing against private insurers in the Florida residential property insurance market. Currently the federal government does not directly regulate the insurance business. However, in recent years the state insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal charter, similar to banks. In addition, changes in federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including changes in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial services regulation and federal taxation, can significantly impact the insurance industry and us. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any enacted, proposed or future state or federal legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the regulatory requirements applicable to our business will not become more stringent in the future or result in materially higher costs than current requirements. Changes in the regulation of our business may reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our operations. Our insurance companies are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements, and our failure to meet these requirements could subject us to regulatory action. Our insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws, including the laws of their state of domicile, Florida. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the NAIC require our insurance companies to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level risk-based capital. Authorized control level risk-based capital is the number determined by applying the NAIC’s risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations. Any failure by one of our insurance companies to meet the applicable risk-based capital or minimum statutory capital requirements imposed by the laws of Florida or other states where we do business could subject it to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on our writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. As of December 31, 2007, American Vehicle and Federated National were in compliance with the NAIC risk-based capital requirements (see “Business-Regulation” for further discussion). Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require us to increase our statutory capital levels, which we may be unable to do. Our revenues and operating performance may fluctuate with business cycles in the property and casualty insurance industry. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical patterns characterized by periods of significant competition in pricing and underwriting terms and conditions, which is known as a "soft" insurance market, followed by periods of lessened competition and increasing premium rates, which is known as a "hard" insurance market. Although an individual insurance company's financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern, with profitability generally increasing in hard markets and decreasing in soft markets. At present, we are experiencing a soft market in the property and casualty market in Florida because of regulatory changes. We cannot predict, however, how long these market conditions will persist. We do not compete entirely on price or targeted market share. Our ability to compete is governed by our ability to assess and price an insurance product with an acceptable risk for obtaining profit. -28- 21st Century Holding Company We may not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals to expand the types of insurance products we offer or the states in which we operate. We currently have an application pending in Ohio, Oklahoma and Tennessee to underwrite and sell commercial general liability insurance. The insurance regulators in these states may request additional information, add conditions to the license that we find unacceptable, or deny our application. This would delay or prevent us from operating in that state. If we want to operate in any additional states, we must file similar applications for licenses, which we may not be successful in obtaining. We are named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit and it may have an adverse impact on our business. From July 27, 2007 to August 7, 2007, several securities class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and certain of its executive officers in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida on behalf of all persons and entities who purchased the Company's securities during the various class periods specified in the complaints. A Consolidated Amended Complaint was filed on behalf of the Class on January 22, 2008. The complaint alleges that the Defendants made false and misleading statements and failed to accurately project the Company's business and financial performance during the putative class period. The complaints seek an unspecified amount of damages and claim violations of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5. The Defendants filed their Motion to dismiss the Consolidated Amended Complaint on February 25, 2008. Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss is currently due April 10, 2008. While the Company believes that the allegations in the complaint are without merit, an unfavorable resolution of pending litigation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Litigation may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of the Company's management regardless of the outcome. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to achieve a favorable settlement of pending litigation or obtain a favorable resolution of this litigation if it is not settled. In addition, current litigation could lead to increased costs or interruptions of normal business operations of the Company. Adverse ratings by insurance rating agencies may adversely impact our ability to write new policies, renew desirable policies or obtain adequate insurance, which could limit or halt our growth and harm our business. Third-party rating agencies assess and rate the ability of insurers to pay their claims. These financial strength ratings are used by the insurance industry to assess the financial strength and quality of insurers. These ratings are based on criteria established by the rating agencies and reflect evaluations of each insurer's profitability, debt and cash levels, customer base, adequacy and soundness of reinsurance, quality and estimated market value of assets, adequacy of reserves, and management. Ratings are based upon factors of concern to agents, reinsurers and policyholders and are not directed toward the protection of investors, such as purchasers of our common stock. We were rated by A.M. Best until August 2004, but we requested that it stop rating Federated National and American Vehicle when these entities were placed under review with negative implications. We expect that this may negatively impact our ability to compete in the property and casualty market in Florida. Federated National and American Vehicle are currently by rated Demotech as "A" ("Exceptional") which is the third of seven ratings, and defined as “Regardless of the severity of a general economic downturn or deterioration in the insurance cycle, insurers earning a Financial Stability Rating of “A” possess “Exceptional” financial stability related to maintaining surplus as regards to policyholders”. Demotech’s ratings are based upon factors of concern to agents, reinsurers and policyholders and are not primarily directed toward the protection of investors. The withdrawal of our ratings by rating agencies could limit or prevent us from writing or renewing desirable insurance policies and from obtaining adequate reinsurance. We rely on independent and general agents to write our insurance policies, and if we are not able to attract and retain independent and general agents, our revenues would be negatively affected. We currently market and distribute Federated National's and American Vehicle's products and services through contractual relationships with a network of approximately 1,500 independent agents and a selected number of general agents. Our independent agents are our primary source for our automobile and property insurance policies. Many of our competitors also rely on independent agents. As a result, we must compete with other insurers for independent agents' business. Our competitors may offer a greater variety of insurance products, lower premiums for insurance coverage, or higher commissions to their agents. If our products, pricing and commissions do not remain competitive, we may find it more difficult to attract business from independent agents to sell our products. A material reduction in the amount of our products that independent agents sell could negatively affect our revenues. -29- 21st Century Holding Company We rely on our information technology and telecommunications systems, and the failure of these systems could disrupt our operations. Our business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our current information technology and telecommunications systems. We rely on these systems to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. As a result, the failure of these systems could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our financial results. Nonstandard automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than standard automobile insurance, thereby increasing our potential for loss exposure beyond what we would be likely to experience if we offered only standard automobile insurance. Nonstandard automobile insurance is provided to insureds that are unable to obtain preferred or standard insurance coverage because of their payment histories, driving records, age, vehicle types, or prior claims histories. This type of automobile insurance historically has a higher frequency of claims than does preferred or standard automobile insurance policies, although the average dollar amount of the claims is usually smaller under nonstandard insurance policies. As a result, we are exposed to the possibility of increased loss exposure and higher claims experience than would be the case if we offered only standard automobile insurance. Florida's personal injury protection insurance statute contains provisions that favor claimants, causing us to experience a higher frequency of claims than might otherwise be the case if we operated only outside of Florida. Florida's personal injury protection insurance statute limits an insurer's ability to deny benefits for medical treatment that is unrelated to the accident, that is unnecessary, or that is fraudulent. In addition, the statute allows claimants to obtain awards for attorney's fees. Although this statute has been amended several times in recent years, primarily to address concerns over fraud, the Florida legislature has been only marginally successful in implementing effective mechanisms that allow insurers to combat fraud and other abuses. We believe that this statute contributes to a higher frequency of claims under nonstandard automobile insurance policies in Florida, as compared to claims under standard automobile insurance policies in Florida and nonstandard and standard automobile insurance polices in other states. Although we believe that we have successfully offset these higher costs with premium increases, because of competition, we may not be able to do so with as much success in the future. Our success depends on our ability to accurately price the risks we underwrite. The results of our operations and the financial condition of our insurance companies depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, LAE and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price our products accurately, we must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends; and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. Our ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price our products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside our control, including: · the availability of sufficient reliable data and our ability to properly analyze available data; · the uncertainties that inherently characterize estimates and assumptions; · our selection and application of appropriate rating and pricing techniques; · changes in legal standards, claim settlement practices, medical care expenses and restoration costs; and · legislatively imposed consumer initiatives. -30- 21st Century Holding Company Consequently, we could under-price risks, which would negatively affect our profit margins, or we could overprice risks, which could reduce our sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Current operating resources are necessary to develop future new insurance products. We currently intend to expand our product offerings by underwriting additional insurance products and programs, and marketing them through our distribution network. Expansion of our product offerings will result in increases in expenses due to additional costs incurred in actuarial rate justifications, software and personnel. Offering additional insurance products may also require regulatory approval, further increasing our costs. There can be no assurance that we will be successful bringing new insurance products to our marketplace. Our business strategy is to avoid competition based on price to the extent possible. This strategy, however, may result in the loss of business in the short term. Comparable companies which compete with us in the homeowners’ market include Allstate Insurance Company, State Farm Insurance Company, First Floridian Insurance Company and Royal Palm Insurance Company. In addition to these nationally recognized names, we also compete with several Florida domestic property and casualty companies such as Universal Insurance Company of North America, Universal Property and Casualty Insurance Company, Coral Insurance Company, Edison Insurance Company, St. Johns Insurance Company, Cypress Property and Casualty Insurance Company, Tower Hill Insurance Company, Florida Family Insurance Company and American Strategic Insurance Company. Additional competition recently emerged as a result of a January 2007 emergency Florida legislation session wherein, the Florida legislature passed and the Governor signed into law a bill known as “CS/HB-1A.”. This law made fundamental changes to the property and casualty insurance business in Florida and undertook a multi-pronged approach to address the cost of residential property insurance in Florida. First, the law increased the capacity of reinsurance which stabilized the reinsurance market to the benefit of the insurance companies writing properties lines in the state of Florida. Secondly, the law provided for rate relief to all policyholders. The law also authorized the state-owned insurance company, Citizens, which is free of many of the restraints on private carriers such as surplus, ratios, income taxes and reinsurance expense, to reduce its premium rates and begin competing against private insurers in the residential property insurance market and expands the authority of Citizens to write commercial insurance. Finally, during 2007 and early 2008, more than a dozen new property and casualty companies have received authority by the Florida OIR to commence business. We face increased competition from existing carriers and new entrants in our niche markets. In an effort to foster competition, the State of Florida has loaned money to multiple carriers with certain debt covenants including the maintenance of minimum written premium. Our competition has attempted to gain market share through aggressive pricing and generous policy acquisition costs which has had an adverse affect on our ability to maintain market share. Although our pricing is inevitably influenced to some degree by that of our competitors, we believe that it is generally not in our best interest to compete solely on price. We compete on the basis of underwriting criteria, our distribution network and superior service to our agents and insureds. Comparable companies which compete with us in the commercial general liability insurance market include Century Surety Insurance Company, Atlantic Casualty Insurance Company, Colony Insurance Company and Burlington/First Financial Insurance Companies. We also face new competition in Florida from such companies as Seminole Property and Casualty Insurance Company and U.S. Security Insurance Company. With respect to automobile insurance in Florida, we intentionally market only to our existing policyholders by offering to renew the existing policy. Temporarily, we have chosen not to compete with more than 100 companies, which underwrite personal automobile insurance in Florida. Comparable companies in the personal automobile insurance market include Affirmative Insurance Holdings, Inc., which acquired our non-standard automobile agency business in Florida in December 2004, U.S. Security Insurance Company, United Automobile Insurance Company, Direct General Insurance Company and Security National Insurance Company, as well as major insurers such as Progressive Casualty Insurance Company. Competition could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not meet the prices offered by our competitors, we may lose business in the short term, which could also result in reduced revenues. -31- 21st Century Holding Company Our senior management team is critical to the strategic direction of our company. If there were an unplanned loss of service by any of our officers our business could be harmed. We depend, and will continue to depend, on the services of our founder and principal shareholder, Edward J. Lawson, who is also our chairman of the board and chief executive officer. Our success also will depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified executive officers, experienced underwriting talent and other skilled employees who are knowledgeable about our business. We rely substantially upon the services of our executive management team which includes Steve Young, our President, Michael Braun, our Chief Operations Officer and President of Federated National, and Pete Prygelski, our Chief Financial Officer. If we were to lose the services of members of our executive management team, our business could be adversely affected. We believe we have been successful in attracting and retaining key personnel throughout our history. We have employment agreements with select members of our executive management team. During 2007, we maintained a $3.0 million key man life insurance on the life of Mr. Lawson and a $1.0 million key man life insurance policy on the life of Mr. Jennings We do not expect to continue these key man life insurance policies in 2008. Nevertheless, because of the executive management role and involvement in developing and implementing our current business strategy, any unplanned loss of service could substantially harm our business Risks Related to an Investment in Our Shares Our largest shareholders currently control approximately 10% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock, which could discourage potential acquirers and prevent changes in management. Edward J. Lawson and Michele V. Lawson beneficially own approximately 10% of our outstanding common stock. As our largest shareholders, the Lawson’s have significant influence over the outcome of any shareholder vote. This voting power may discourage takeover attempts, changes in our officers and directors or other changes in our corporate governance that other shareholders may desire. We have authorized but unissued preferred stock, which could affect rights of holders of common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize the issuance of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the preferred stock could be issued as a method of discouraging a takeover attempt. Although we do not intend to issue any preferred stock at this time, we may do so in the future. Our articles of incorporation, bylaws and Florida law may discourage takeover attempts and may result in entrenchment of management. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage takeover attempts and may result in entrenchment of management. ● Our board of directors is elected in classes, with only two or three of the directors elected each year. As a result, shareholders would not be able to change the membership of the board in its entirety in any one year. Shareholders would also be unable to bring about, through the election of a new board of directors, changes in our officers. ● Our articles of incorporation prohibit shareholders from acting by written consent, meaning that shareholders will be required to conduct a meeting in order to vote on any proposals or take any action. ● Our bylaws require at least 60 days' notice if a shareholder desires to submit a proposal for a shareholder vote or to nominate a person for election to our board of directors. -32- 21st Century Holding Company In addition, Florida has enacted legislation that may deter or frustrate takeovers of Florida corporations, such as our company. · The Florida Control Share Act provides that shares acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights unless the voting rights are approved by a majority of the corporation's disinterested shareholders. A "control share acquisition" is an acquisition, in whatever form, of voting power in any of the following ranges: (a) at least 20% but less than 33-1/3% of all voting power, (b) at least 33-1/3% but less than a majority of all voting power; or (c) a majority or more of all voting power. · The Florida Affiliated Transactions Act requires supermajority approval by disinterested shareholders of certain specified transactions between a public company and holders of more than 10% of the outstanding voting shares of the corporation (or their affiliates). As a holding company, we depend on the earnings of our subsidiaries and their ability to pay management fees and dividends to the holding company as the primary source of our income. We are an insurance holding company whose primary assets are the stock of our subsidiaries. Our operations, and our ability to service future potential debt, are limited by the earnings of our subsidiaries and their payment of their earnings to us in the form of management fees, commissions, dividends, loans, advances or the reimbursement of expenses. These payments can be made only when our subsidiaries have adequate earnings. In addition, dividend payments made to us by our insurance subsidiaries are restricted by Florida law governing the insurance industry. Generally, Florida law limits the dividends payable by insurance companies under complicated formulas based on the subsidiary's available capital and earnings. No dividends were declared or paid by our insurance subsidiaries in 2007, 2006 or 2005. Under these laws, neither Federated National nor American Vehicle may be permitted to pay dividends to 21st Century in 2008. Whether our subsidiaries will be able to pay dividends in 2008 depends on the results of their operations and their expected needs for capital. We do not anticipate that our subsidiaries will begin to pay dividends to the parent company during 2008. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 