Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: We may not be able to grow unless we increase market acceptance of our products and develop new products and applications. Our primary competition consists of wood products, which constitute a substantial majority of decking and railing sales. Our ability to grow will depend largely on our success in converting the current demand for wood in decking, railing, fencing, and trim applications into a demand for Trex products. To increase our market share, we must overcome: • the consumer lack of awareness of the value of non-wood decking, railing, fencing and trim alternatives in general and Trex brand products in particular; • the resistance of many consumers and contractors to change from well-established wood products; • the greater initial expense of Trex decking, railing, fencing and trim compared to wood; • the established relationships existing between suppliers of wood decking, railing, fencing and trim products and contractors and homebuilders; and • the competition from other wood alternative manufacturers. In addition to the above, substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of our proprietary wood/plastic composite material. Although we have developed, and continue to develop, new products made from other materials, if we should experience significant problems, real or perceived, with product quality or acceptance of the Trex wood/polyethylene composite material, our lack of product diversification could have a significant adverse impact on our net sales levels. Our prospects for sales growth and profitability may be adversely affected if we fail to maintain product quality and product performance at an acceptable cost. We will be able to expand our net sales and to sustain and enhance profitable operations only if we succeed in maintaining the quality and performance of our products. If we should not be able to produce high-quality 9 Table of Contents products at standard manufacturing rates and yields, unit costs may be higher. A lack of product performance would negatively affect our profitability by impeding acceptance of our products in the marketplace and by leading to higher product replacement and consumer relations expenses. In recent periods, we have experienced significant increases in product replacement and consumer relations expenses related to a small portion of our production at our Fernley, Nevada manufacturing facility and have increased our warranty reserve accordingly. Because the establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of the number of future claims and the cost to settle claims, our ultimate losses may exceed our warranty reserve. Future increases to the warranty reserve would have an adverse effect on our profitability in the periods in which we make such increases. Increases we made to the warranty reserve in 2007 had a material adverse effect on 2007 profitability and payments for related claims had a material adverse effect on our cash flow in 2007 and 2008. Our business is subject to risks in obtaining the raw materials we use at acceptable prices. The production of Trex Wood-Polymer® requires substantial amounts of wood fiber and PE material. Our business strategy is to create a substantial cost advantage over our competitors by using recycled plastic and reclaimed wood. Our business could suffer from the termination of significant sources of raw materials, the payment of higher prices for raw materials or the failure to obtain sufficient additional raw materials to meet planned increases in production. Our ability to obtain adequate supplies of PE material depends on our success in developing new sources that meet our quality requirements, entering into long-term arrangements with suppliers and managing the collection of supplies from geographically dispersed distribution centers and off-shore sources. The demand for our products is influenced by general economic conditions and could be adversely affected by economic downturns. The demand for our products is correlated to changes in the health of the economy in general, and the level of activity in home improvements and, to a much lesser extent, new home construction. These activity levels, in turn, are affected by such factors as home equity values, consumer spending habits, employment, interest rates and inflation. Market conditions in the housing industry have slowed significantly in recent periods, particularly in new home construction. Home equity values in many markets have decreased significantly, adversely affecting the availability of home equity withdrawals, which have resulted in decreased home improvement spending. In 2008, the U.S. economy entered into a recession. We cannot predict how long the recession will last and whether the downward trend in home remodeling and new home construction will continue or worsen. Any continued economic downturn could reduce consumer income or equity capital available for spending on discretionary items such as decking, railing, fencing or trim, which could adversely affect the demand for our products. Our performance may suffer if we do not compete effectively in the highly competitive decking, railing, fencing and trim markets. We must compete with an increasing number of companies in the wood/plastic composites segment of the decking, railing, fencing and trim markets and with wood producers that currently have more production capacity than is required to meet the demand for such products. Our failure to compete successfully in such markets could have a material adverse effect on our ability to replace wood or increase the market share of wood/plastic composites compared to wood. Many of the conventional lumber suppliers with which we compete have established ties to the building and construction industry and have well-accepted products. Many of our competitors in the decking, railing, fencing and trim markets that sell wood products have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Our ability to compete depends, in part, upon a number of factors outside our control, including the ability of competitors to develop new non-wood alternatives that are more competitive with Trex products. We have significant capital invested in property, plant and equipment that may become obsolete or impaired and result in a charge to our earnings. At December 31, 2008, we had $176.3 million of net property, plant and equipment. The improvement we seek to make to our manufacturing processes sometimes involves the implementation of new technology and 10 Table of Contents replacement of equipment at our manufacturing facilities, which may result in charges to our earnings if the existing equipment is not fully depreciated. Of our net property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2008, approximately $42.7 million is located at our Olive Branch, Mississippi manufacturing facility. We suspended manufacturing operations at the Olive Branch facility in the third quarter of 2007 for an indeterminate period. Changes in our plans regarding the future operation of the facility or the expected cash flows generated by the facility in the future may result in material impairment charges and reduced earnings. Our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and ability to compete. As of December 31, 2008, we had $133.8 million of total indebtedness. Our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it may: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds to alleviate liquidity constraints, as a result of financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies that have less indebtedness; and • limit our ability to refinance our principal secured indebtedness. In addition, our senior secured credit facility and bond reimbursement agreement impose operating and financial restrictions that may limit our discretion on some business matters, which could make it more difficult for us to expand, finance our operations and engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and additional liens on our assets; • engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets; • enter into sale-leaseback transactions; • pay dividends or make other distributions; • voluntarily prepay other indebtedness; • enter into transactions with affiliated persons; • make investments; and • change the nature of our business. We may incur indebtedness in addition to our current indebtedness. Any additional indebtedness we may incur in the future could subject us to similar or even more restrictive conditions. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability in the future to generate cash flows from operations and to raise additional funds, including through the offering of equity or debt securities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or to raise additional funds in amounts necessary for us to repay our indebtedness when such indebtedness becomes due and to meet our other cash needs. Our ability to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our real estate loans, convertible notes and bond loan agreement, borrow and repay amounts under our revolving credit facility and continue to comply with 11 Table of Contents our loan covenants will depend primarily on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations. Our failure to comply with our loan covenants might cause our lenders to accelerate our repayment obligations under our credit facility or bond reimbursement agreement, which may be declared payable immediately based on a default and which could result in a cross-default under our $97.5 million principal amount of outstanding convertible notes. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is tied to a borrowing base that consists of specified receivables and inventory. To remain in compliance with our credit facility, real estate loans and bond reimbursement agreement, we must maintain specified financial ratios based on our levels of debt, capital, net worth, fixed charges, and earnings (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary non-cash losses) before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, all of which are subject to the risks of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 