Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. In addition, other factors that we do not anticipate, or that we do not consider significant based on currently available information, may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have recently experienced significantly lower revenues. Our revenue declined 31% in fiscal 2011 compared with the prior fiscal year, and our revenue was $35.9 million in the three months ending September 30, 2011 compared to $56.3 million in the three months ending October 1, 2010. While we believe our sales, marketing and solution development activities may result in revenue growth, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our revenue and other financial objectives. If we are not able to increase revenues, we may be required to reduce our operating expenses, which could have a negative impact on our ability to achieve our revenue, operating and cash flow objectives. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products to offset declines in our legacy products and increase market share, and reduce costs. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis to enable us to increase revenue and replace decreasing revenue from our established legacy products, which include wireless networking solutions, computer modems and modems for digital television platforms in Japan. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others, our ability to: • anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • accurately define new products; • complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • Achieve our product cost objectives; • achieve overall market acceptance of our products; and • coordinate product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China, to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. The average selling prices of our products in our markets have historically decreased over the life of the products rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. Many of our products face significant competition and are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices over the life of the products. We have historically decreased the average selling prices of many of our products in order to meet market demand, and we expect that we will continue to reduce prices in the future. Reductions in our average selling prices to one customer could impact our average selling prices to all customers, which could further reduce revenues. A decline in average selling prices would harm our gross margins unless we are able to decrease our product costs concurrently. Historically, we 10 Table of Contents have generally been able to substantially offset reductions in our average selling prices with decreases in our product costs, but there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our unit volumes, reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross profit. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel at all levels of our business. We assess our personnel resources based on our strategic direction and financial capabilities; we have had significant turnover and hired key personnel since the Merger. While we have recruited talented personnel to contribute to our success, there is generally a period of time before such individuals contribute at the levels anticipated. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for our future success. We are subject to intense competition which may negatively impact our financial results. The semiconductor industry in general, and the markets in which we compete in particular, are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. This competition results in declining average selling prices for our products, shorter product life cycles, and changes in market share. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • power consumption; • the system features integrated in a device; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • effective software algorithms; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support capabilities; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. In addition, the financial stability of suppliers is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have a stronger financial position, less indebtedness and greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our relationships with existing and potential customers could be adversely affected if our customers perceive that we lack an appropriate level of financial resources or liquidity. 11 Table of Contents Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant demand fluctuations that may negatively impact our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Recent and continuing domestic and global economic weakness and uncertainty have presented unprecedented and challenging conditions, which have resulted in ongoing concerns about the availability and cost of credit, international financial markets, high sovereign debt, declining real estate values, national deficits, increased energy costs and decreased consumer confidence and spending, amongst other factors. These conditions have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. In addition, these conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to reduce spending on our products, which could cause our sales to decrease or result in an extension of our sales cycles. Further, given uncertainty in the economic environment, we or our customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impact our liquidity and raise our cost of capital. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or within our industry. If the economies or markets in which we operate continue to be subject to these adverse economic conditions, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. Since we have limited visibility as to the volume of sales of our products by our customers and inventory levels of our products held by our customers, our ability to accurately forecast future demand for and sales of our products is limited. We sell our chipsets to OEMs, who integrate our chipsets into their products, or to ODMs who include our chipsets in the products they supply to OEMs. We have limited visibility as to the volume of our products that our OEM and ODM customers are selling to their customers or carrying in their inventory. If our customers have excess inventory or experience a slowing of products sold through to their end customers, it would likely result in a slowdown in orders from our customers and adversely impact our future sales and inventory and result in an extension of our sales cycles. If we fail to adequately forecast demand for our products, we may incur product shortages or excess product inventories. Our agreements with certain suppliers require us to provide forecasts of our anticipated manufacturing orders, and place binding manufacturing commitments in advance of receiving purchase orders from our customers. We may be limited in our ability to increase or decrease our forecasts under such agreements. Other manufacturers supply us with product on a purchase order basis. The allocation of product capacity is determined solely by our suppliers over which we have no direct control. Additionally, we may place orders with our suppliers in advance of receiving customer orders to allow us to quickly respond to changing customer demand or to obtain favorable product costs. These factors may result in product shortages or excess product inventories. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product, equipment or capacity shortages may be costly, or not possible, especially in the short term since many of our products are supplied by a single supplier. Our failure to adequately forecast demand for our products could materially harm our business. Our approach to developing solutions for potential customers involves developing solutions for and aligning our product roadmap with leading audio, video and imaging customers. In keeping with this strategy, we have entered into informal partnerships with other parties that involve the development of solutions that interface with their devices or standards. These informal partnerships also may involve joint marketing campaigns and sales calls. If our solutions are not incorporated into customer products, if our partners discontinue production or fail to integrate our solution into their product offerings, or if the informal partnerships do not grow as expected or if they are significantly reduced or are terminated by acquisition or other means, our revenue and gross margin will be materially harmed and we may be required to write-off related inventories and long-lived assets. The semiconductor manufacturing process is complex and we may experience difficulties that result in lower performance distribution and yield of our products. Difficulties encountered during the complex semiconductor manufacturing process can render a substantial percentage of semiconductor devices nonfunctional. New manufacturing techniques or fluctuations in the manufacturing process may change the performance distribution and yield of our products. We have, in the past, experienced manufacturing runs that have 12 Table of Contents contained substantially reduced or no functioning devices, or that generated devices with below normal performance characteristics. Our reliance on third party suppliers may extend the period of time required to analyze and correct these problems. Once corrected, our customers may be required to redesign or re-qualify their products. As a result, we may incur substantially higher manufacturing costs, shortages of inventories or reduced customer demand. Yield fluctuations frequently occur in connection with the manufacture of newly introduced products, with changes in product architecture, with manufacturing at new facilities, on new fabrication processes or in conjunction with new backend manufacturing processes. Newly introduced solutions and products are often more complex and more difficult to produce, increasing the risk of manufacturing related defects. New manufacturing facilities or processes are often more complex and take a period of time to achieve expected quality levels and manufacturing efficiencies. While we test our products, including our software development tools, they may still contain errors or defects that are found after we have commenced commercial production. Undetected errors or defects may also result from new manufacturing processes or when new intellectual property is incorporated into our products. If our products or software development tools contain undetected or unresolved defects, we may lose market share, experience delays in or loss of market acceptance, reserve or scrap inventories or be required to issue a product recall. In addition, we would be at risk of product liability litigation if defects in our products were discovered. Although we attempt to limit our liability to end users through disclaimers of special, consequential and indirect damages and similar provisions, we cannot assure you that such limitations of liability will be legally enforceable. Our products typically have lengthy sales cycles. A customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, which could cause us to lose anticipated sales and we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues. After we have developed and delivered a product to a customer, the customer will usually evaluate our product prior to designing its own equipment to incorporate our product. Our customers may need several months to test, evaluate and choose whether to adopt our product, and to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our product. This process results in long sales cycles for many of our products. Due to these lengthy sales cycles, we may experience significant delays from the time we incur certain research and development costs, selling, general and administrative expenses, and build initial inventory, until the time we generate revenue from these products. It is possible that we may never generate any revenue from these products after incurring such expenditures or that the revenues or gross profit we generate are lower than we anticipate. Even if a customer selects our solution to incorporate into its product, we have no assurances that the customer will ultimately market and sell its product or that such efforts by our customer will be successful. The delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle also increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel or curtail, reduce or delay its product plans. Such a cancellation or change in plans by a customer could cause us to lose sales that we had anticipated or delay the realization of revenue and gross profit. We will continue to expend substantial resources developing products for new applications or markets that may not achieve the sales volume that we anticipate for these products, which may limit our future revenue growth. We have focused our R&D investments in products for imaging, audio and video customers. Although we plan to continue to drive growth in these applications and other new areas, we still have a significant portion of revenue coming from our legacy modem businesses. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to offer products outside of this legacy business, and we face a number of risks in connection with the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of these products, including those described in other risk factors in this Annual Report. We have in the past, and will likely in the future, expend substantial resources in developing new products for new applications and markets. We may experience unforeseen difficulties and delays in developing these products and defects upon volume production and broad deployment. In addition, we will have limited experience in these new markets, and we may be unsuccessful in marketing and selling any products we develop for these new markets. The markets we choose to enter will likely be highly competitive and many of our competitors will have substantially more experience in these markets. Our success will depend in part on the growth of the markets we enter, the competitiveness of our products and our ability to increase our market share in these markets. If we choose to enter markets that do not achieve or sustain the growth we anticipate, or if our products are not competitive, we may not achieve volume sales or pricing objectives, which may limit our future revenue and gross profit growth. The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, we have derived a substantial portion of our revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss or financial difficulty of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our 20 largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 83% of our net revenues in the Successor period in fiscal 2011 and the Predecessor period in fiscal 2011, and 82% and 87% of our net revenues in the Predecessor fiscal years ended October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, respectively. For the Successor period from in fiscal 2011 and the Predecessor period in fiscal 2011, one distributor accounted for 14% of our net revenues. For the Predecessor fiscal years ended October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, one distributor accounted for 13% and 23% of our net revenues, 13 Table of Contents respectively. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • our customers’ perceptions of our liquidity and financial viability may have a negative impact on their decisions to incorporate our products into their own products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products; • some of our customers’ may experience lower market share or pursue pricing reductions due to declining financial health or be negatively affected by continued uncertainty in global economic conditions; • our customers may decide to reduce their supply risk by developing additional sources of supply for a product; and • our small size, our cost-savings efforts and any future liquidity constraints may limit our ability to develop and deliver new products to customers. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely impact our revenue and our results of operations. Further, our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, PC, imaging and consumer markets. Unfavorable domestic and global economic conditions have had an adverse impact on demand in these end-user markets by reducing overall consumer spending or shifting consumer spending to products not made by our customers. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending by customers in these end-markets will adversely impact demand by our customers for our products and could also slow new product introductions by our customers and by us. Lower net sales of our products would have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because the markets we operate in generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; • evolving industry standards; and • constant transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. 14 Table of Contents Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. If OEMs of electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins.” Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. In addition, achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. Our operating and financial flexibility is limited by the terms of the indenture governing our senior secured notes due 2015. Our long term debt due in March 2015, with a principal amount of $175 million, bears interest at 11.25%, with semi-annual interest payments due in March and September. The indenture governing our senior secured notes due 2015 contains financial and other covenants that may limit our ability to take, or prevent us from taking, certain actions that we believe are in the best interests of our business and our stockholders. For example, the indenture governing our senior secured notes contains covenants that restrict, subject to certain exceptions, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries who are guarantors of our senior secured notes to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue certain redeemable or preferred stock; repurchase capital stock; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; make certain investments; create liens; redeem junior debt; sell certain assets; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; and enter into sale-leaseback transactions. In addition, we are required to use the proceeds of certain asset dispositions to offer to repurchase our senior secured notes if we do not use the proceeds within 360 days to invest in assets (other than current assets) to be used in our business; and this requirement limits our ability to use asset sale proceeds to fund our operations. The restrictions imposed by the indenture governing our senior secured notes may prevent us from taking actions that could help to grow our business or increase the value of our securities. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For the Successor period in fiscal 2011 and the Predecessor period in fiscal 2011, net revenue from customers located outside of the United States (“U.S.”), which were earned primarily in the Asia-Pacific region, represented approximately 96% of our total net revenues. For the Predecessor fiscal years ended October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, net revenues from customers located outside of the U.S., which are primarily located in the Asia-Pacific region, represented approximately 94% and 97%, respectively, of our total net revenues. In addition, many of our key suppliers are located outside of the U.S. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support services; • local economic and political conditions; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity, armed conflict, or natural disasters; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • the laws and policies of the U.S. and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; and 15 Table of Contents • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities. Further, because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into during the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. As of September 30, 2011, we did not have any outstanding foreign currency exchange contracts. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances, acquisitions and where appropriate, divestitures and restructurings. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes in the industry in which we operate make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future, or that these investments will achieve their financial objectives. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in significant costs and risks, including those relating to: • integration of multiple companies, products or technologies; • write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company or from the Company as a result of the acquisition; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products, services and technologies may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our products and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, in the event that we have unprofitable operations or products, we may be forced to restructure or divest such operations or products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to restructure or divest such operations or products on a timely basis or at a value that will avoid further losses or that will successfully mitigate the negative impact of such operations or products on our overall operations or financial results. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 41% of our net revenues in the Successor period in fiscal 2011 and the Predecessor period in fiscal 2011. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 30% and 38% of our net revenues for the Predecessor fiscal years ended October 1, 2010 and October 2, 2009, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other suppliers’ products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact the distributors’ future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change 16 Table of Contents their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously-sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Therefore, our ability to sell our products is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer fabrication capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we risk experiencing delays in access to key process technologies, production or shipments, and increased manufacturing costs. Moreover, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build or expand wafer fabrication facilities. However, uncertain economic conditions have decreased the level of liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. These conditions may make it difficult for foundries to obtain adequate capital to finance the building or expansion of their wafer fabrication facilities, which would have an adverse impact on their production capacity and could in turn negatively impact our wafer output. In addition, certain of our suppliers have required that we keep in place standby letters of credit for all or part of the products we order. Such requirement, or a requirement that we pre-pay for all or part of vendor invoices or that we shorten our payment cycle times in the future, may negatively impact our liquidity and cash position, or may not be available to us due to our then-current liquidity or cash position, and would have a negative impact on our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and testing of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks that we have with respect to our reliance on outside foundries, including competition for the servicing capabilities of the third parties. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for that product. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer fabrication capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer fabrication capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms. All such delays or disruptions could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis and may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times, we incorporate intellectual property licensed from our customers and other third parties into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; 17 Table of Contents • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. A significant portion of our intellectual property rights is located in foreign jurisdictions. Because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark and other laws concerning proprietary rights, our intellectual property rights frequently do not receive the same degree of protection in foreign jurisdictions as they would in the U.S. Our failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technologies. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, which we may not be successful in developing; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We own or lease a significant amount of space in which we do not conduct operations, and doing so exposes us to the financial risks of default by our tenants and subtenants and cashflow related to carrying vacant property. As a result of our various reorganization and restructuring related activities, we lease or own a number of facilities in which we do not operate. At September 30, 2011, we had 381,763 square feet of impaired leased space of which approximately 71% was being leased to third parties and 29% was vacant and offered for lease. As of September 30, 2011, the aggregate amount owed to landlords under space we lease but do not operate over the remaining terms of the leases was approximately $53.0 million and, of this amount, subtenants had lease obligations to us in the aggregate amount of $13.9 million. The space we have subleased to others is, in some cases, at rates less than the amounts we are required to pay landlords and, of the aggregate obligations we had to landlords for unused space at September 30, 2011, approximately $5.0 million was attributable to space we were attempting to sublease. In the event one or more of our subtenants fails to make lease payments to us or otherwise defaults on their obligations to us, we could incur substantial unanticipated payment obligations to landlords. In addition, in the event tenants of space we own fail to make lease payments to us or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could be required to seek new tenants and we cannot assure you that our efforts to do so would be successful or that the rates at which we could do so would be attractive. In the event our estimates regarding our ability to sublet our available space are incorrect, we would be required to adjust our restructuring or impairment reserves, which could have a material impact on our financial results in the future. 18 Table of Contents We may engage in manufacturing, distribution or technology agreements that involve numerous risks, including the use of cash, diversion of resources and significant write-offs We have entered into and, in the future, intend to enter into agreements that involve numerous risks, including the use of significant amounts of our cash; diversion of resources from other development projects or market opportunities; our ability to collect amounts due under these contracts; and market acceptance of related products and solutions. If we fail to recover the cost of these or other assets from the cash flow generated by the related products, our assets will become impaired and our financial results would be harmed. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, other catastrophic events and business interruptions for which we may maintain limited insurance Our operations, our suppliers, our customers and their suppliers are vulnerable to the effects that fire, earthquake, power loss, flood, terrorist acts and other catastrophic events beyond our control can have, including interrupted supply, our ability to source all of the goods and services needed to meet customer requirements. In particular, we rely on certain suppliers to manufacture our products and would not be able to qualify an alternate supplier of our products for several quarters. Our suppliers often hold significant quantities of our inventories which, in the event of a disaster, could be destroyed. In addition, our business processes and systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. Any catastrophic event, such as an earthquake or other natural disaster, the failure of our computer systems, war or acts of terrorism, could significantly impair our ability to maintain our records, invoice and receive payment from our customers, pay our suppliers, or design, manufacture or ship our products. The occurrence of any of these events could shift buying patterns, also affect our customers, distributors and suppliers and produce similar disruptive effects upon their business. If there is an earthquake or other catastrophic event near our headquarters, our customers’ facilities, our distributors’ facilities or our suppliers’ facilities, our business could be seriously harmed. We do not maintain sufficient business interruption and other insurance policies to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of a catastrophic event or any other significant uninsured loss could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause adverse revenue fluctuations, affect our reported financial results or how we conduct our business Generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, are promulgated by, and are subject to the interpretation of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, and the SEC. New accounting pronouncements or taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation practices have occurred and may occur in the future. Any future changes in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on how we report our results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. In addition, a review of existing or prior accounting practices may result in a change in previously reported amounts. This change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results and customers and lenders perceptions of our financial condition or the way we conduct our business and subject us to regulatory inquiries or litigation. We have implemented import and export control procedures to comply with United States regulations but we are still exposed to potential risks from import and export activity Our products, solutions, technology and software are subject to import and export control laws and regulations which, in some instances, may impose restrictions on business activities, or otherwise require licenses or other authorizations from agencies such as the U.S. Department of State, U.S. Department of Commerce and U.S. Department of the Treasury. These restrictions may impact deliveries to customers or limit development and manufacturing alternatives. We have import and export licensing and compliance procedures in place for purposes of conducting our business consistent with U.S. and applicable international laws and regulations, and we periodically review these procedures to maintain compliance with the requirements relating to import and export regulations. If we are not able to remain in compliance with import and export regulations, we might be subject to investigation, sanctions or penalties by regulatory authorities. Such penalties can include civil, criminal or administrative remedies such as loss of export privileges. We cannot be certain as to the outcome of an evaluation, investigation, inquiry or other action or the impact of these items on our operations. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. We may not have the liquidity to support our future operations and capital requirements Whether we can achieve cash flow levels sufficient to support our operations cannot be accurately predicted, and our investment portfolio is subject to a degree of interest rate and liquidity risk. Unless such cash flow levels are achieved and our investment portfolio remains liquid and its capital is preserved, we may need to borrow additional funds or sell debt or equity 19 Table of Contents securities, or some combination thereof, to provide funding for our operations. Such additional funding may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available when needed, our financial condition and operating results would be materially and adversely affected and we may not be able to operate our business without significant changes in our operations, or at all. The value of our warrant to purchase 6.1 million shares of Mindspeed common stock is subject to material increases and decreases in value based on factors beyond our control. We have a warrant to purchase approximately 6.1 million shares of Mindspeed common stock at an exercise price of $16.74 per share through June 2013. At September 30, 2011 and October 1, 2010, the market value of Mindspeed common stock was $5.20 and $7.73 per share, respectively. We account for the Mindspeed warrant as a derivative instrument, and changes in the fair value of the warrant are included under other expense (income), net in the statement of operations for each period. At September 30, 2011 and October 1, 2010, the aggregate fair value of the Mindspeed warrant included on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets was $1.7 million and $20.7 million, respectively. At September 30, 2011, the warrant was valued using the Black-Scholes-Merton model with an expected term of 1.75 years, expected volatility of 64%, risk-free interest rate of 0.22% and no dividend yield. The aggregate fair value of the warrant is reflected as a long-term asset on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets because we do not intend to liquidate any portion of the warrant in the next twelve months. At September 30, 2011 and October 1, 2010, the value of the warrant represented 0.4% and 6.8%, respectively, of total assets. The valuation of this derivative instrument is subjective, and option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. Changes in these assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate. The amount, if any, that we realize upon exercise of this warrant may significantly differ from the carrying value. Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business. We are subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business. Any of these claims or legal actions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. If any of the tax holidays or favorable tax incentives under which we operated in certain foreign jurisdictions are disallowed, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We operated under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. While we believe we qualified for these incentives that reduced our income taxes and operating costs, the incentives required us to meet specified criteria, which are subject to audit and review. We cannot assure you that we met such criteria that would enable us to enjoy such tax holidays and incentives or realize any tax benefits from the tax holidays and incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income has been limited by the ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs. The acquisition of our common stock in connection with the Merger triggered an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (“Section 382”). Section 382 imposes an annual limitation (based upon the value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code) on the amount of taxable income that can be offset with net operating loss (“NOL”) carryovers that existed at time of the acquisition. Section 383 will also limit our ability to use R&D tax credit carryovers. In addition, as the tax basis of our assets exceeded the fair market value of our assets at the time of the ownership change, Section 382 will also limit our ability to use amortization of capitalized R&D and goodwill to offset taxable income for the first five years following an ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. Similar limitations have been implemented by states and certain foreign jurisdictions. We are in the process of finalizing the impact of Section 382 on our deferred tax items and, we have preliminarily assessed the impact of Section 382 on our fully reserved deferred tax assets. The change of ownership has significantly limited our ability to utilize our federal and state deferred tax assets and impaired the carrying value of the deferred tax assets and changed the amount of our unrecognized tax benefits. As the federal and state deferred tax assets are fully reserved, this impairment has not had an impact on our current year financial position or results of operations. However, the limitation on the use of our NOLs, credits and amortization which resulted from the ownership changes could adversely impact our future operating results and financial condition. As a result of the Section 382 limitation, as of September 30, 2011, the Company has U.S. federal and California net realizeable net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $272 million and $553 million, respectively. In addition, we can within nine and a half months of the Merger elect under Section 338 of the Internal Revenue Code to treat the Merger as if it were an asset purchase for federal income tax purposes. If we make a Section 338 election, generally the tax basis of our assets will equal the fair market value at the time of the Merger, the intangible assets would be deductible 20 Table of Contents over 15 years under IRC Section 197 and the net operating losses, federal credits and remaining deferred taxes would be eliminated. Our financial position and results of operations and cash flows could materially change if we make a Section 338 election. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs and credits for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs, credits and tax attributes in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At September 30, 2011, we had $223.9 million of goodwill and $68.4 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 74% of our total assets. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our fair value drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a charge against earnings. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we determined that indicators of impairment existed based on our operating results and forecasts. As a result, we recalculated the fair value of our acquisition-related intangible assets and based on their revised fair values recorded an impairment charge of $41.0 million in the Successor period in fiscal 2011. Our remaining goodwill is associated with our business. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level annually in the fourth fiscal quarter and, if necessary, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we determined that the fair value of our business was less than its carrying value. As a result, we tested whether the implied fair value of goodwill was greater than the carrying amount of goodwill. Based on our test, we determined that the implied fair value of goodwill was greater than the carrying amount of goodwill and therefore there was no impairment of goodwill as of September 30, 2011. Because of the significance of our remaining goodwill and intangible asset balances, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although, as a charge, it would have no effect on our cash flow. Significant impairments may also impact shareholders’ equity. Our revenues, cash flow from operations and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, particularly given uncertain domestic and global economic conditions. Our revenues, cash flow and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • adverse economic conditions, including the unavailability or high cost of credit to our customers; • the inability of our customers to forecast demand based on uncertain economic conditions; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the effect of our long term debt and related covenants on our ability to raise funds through asset sales or increase our debt; • our ability to refinance our long term debt; 21 Table of Contents • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effect of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 