Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Making or continuing an investment in securities issued by Whitney, including our common stock, involves certain risks that you should carefully consider. Whitney must recognize and attempt to manage these risks as it implements its strategies to successfully compete with other companies in the financial services industry. Some of the more important risks common to the industry and Whitney are: • credit risk, which is the risk that borrowers will be unable to meet their contractual obligations, leading to loan losses and reduced interest income; • market risk, which is the risk that changes in market rates and prices will adversely affect the results of operations or financial condition; • liquidity risk, which is the risk that funds will not be available at a reasonable cost to meet operating and strategic needs; • compliance risk, which is the risk of failure to comply with requirements imposed by regulators; • reputation risk, which is the risk that negative perceptions of a business will adversely affect operations and financial performance; and • operational risk, which is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events, such as natural disasters. Although Whitney generally is not significantly more susceptible to adverse effects from these or other common risk factors than other industry participants, there are certain aspects of Whitney’s business model that may expose it to somewhat higher levels of risk. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, these risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating Whitney’s overall risk profile. Additional risks not presently known, or that Whitney currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect Whitney’s business, financial condition or results of operations. The recession in the broader economy, both nationally and internationally, could have an adverse affect on Whitney’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Recessionary conditions and a subsequent period of slow recovery in the broader economy could adversely affect the financial capacity of businesses and individuals in Whitney’s market area. These conditions could, among other consequences, increase the credit risk inherent in the current loan portfolio, restrain new loan demand from creditworthy borrowers, prompt Whitney to tighten its underwriting criteria, and reduce the liquidity in Whitney’s customer base and the level of deposits that they maintain. These economic conditions could also delay the correction of the imbalance of supply and demand in certain real estate markets as discussed below. Legislative and regulatory actions taken in response to these conditions could impose additional restrictions and requirements on Whitney and others in the financial industry. The impact on Whitney’s financial results could include continued high levels of problem credits, provisions for credit losses and expenses associated with loan collection efforts, the possible impairment of certain intangible or deferred tax assets, the need for Whitney to replace core deposits with higher-cost sources of funds, and an inability to produce loan growth or overall growth in earning assets. Noninterest income from sources that are dependent on financial transactions and market valuations could also be reduced. The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial real estate markets may lead to increased nonperforming assets in Whitney’s loan portfolio and increased provision for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Since the third quarter of 2007, the residential construction and commercial real estate markets have experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions. In particular, conditions in Whitney’s Florida and Alabama residential-related real estate markets have led to continued declines in credit quality since the end of 2007. Our nonperforming loans were $414 million at December 31, 2009, compared to $301 million at December 31, 2008. Nonperforming loans in our Florida and Alabama markets represented approximately 59% and 18%, respectively, of our total nonperforming loans at December 31, 2009. More recently, we have begun to see some deterioration in our commercial real estate loan portfolio across all of our markets, particularly in Texas. 13 Table of Contents Commercial real estate loans, which include residential-related construction loans, comprised $2.8 billion or 33% of Whitney’s loan portfolio as of December 31, 2009. The continued deterioration in market conditions could lead to additional loss provisions with respect to our real estate loan portfolios and the valuation of real estate we have obtained through foreclosure as well as to further additions to nonperforming real estate loans. A sustained weak economy could also result in higher levels of nonperforming loans in other categories, such as commercial and industrial loans, which may result in additional losses. Management continually monitors market conditions and economic factors throughout our footprint for indications of change in other markets. If these economic conditions and market factors negatively and/or disproportionately affect some of our larger loans, then we could see a sharp increase in our total net charge-offs and also be required to significantly increase our allowance for loan losses. Any further increase in our nonperforming assets and related increases in our provision for losses on loans could negatively affect our business and could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Whitney has credit exposure in the oil and gas industry. At December 31, 2009, the Bank had approximately $894 million in loans to borrowers in the oil and gas industry, representing approximately 11% of its total loans outstanding as of that date. The majority of the Bank’s customer base in this industry provides transportation and other services and products to support exploration and production activities. If there is a significant downturn in the oil and gas industry generally, the cash flows of Whitney’s customers’ in this industry would be adversely impacted. This in turn could impair their ability to service their debt to the Bank with adverse consequences to the Company’s earnings. The composition of Whitney’s loan portfolio could increase the volatility of its credit quality metrics and provisions for credit losses. Whitney’s loan portfolio contains individual relationships, primarily with commercial customers, with outstanding balances that are relatively large in relation to its asset size. Changes in the credit quality of one or a few of these relationships could lead to increased volatility in the Company’s reported totals of loans with above-normal credit risk and in its provisions for credit losses over time. Whitney’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and we may be required to materially increase our allowance, which may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. The allowance represents management’s best estimate of probable loan losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks using existing qualitative and quantitative information, all of which may undergo material changes. We have recently completed an assessment of and made enhancements to our Bank’s allowance methodology. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of additional loan charge offs, based on judgments different than those of management. An increase in the allowance for loan losses results in a decrease in net income, and possibly regulatory capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Impairment of goodwill associated with acquisitions would result in a charge to earnings. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually and the impairment test compares the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its net book value. Given the current economic environment and potential for volatility in the fair value estimate, management is updating the impairment test for goodwill quarterly. No indication of goodwill impairment was identified by the annual test as of September 30, 2009 or the interim test as of December 31, 2009; however, it is possible that a noncash goodwill impairment charge may be required in the future. Such a charge could result in a material reduction in earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired, 14 Table of Contents but an impairment charge would not have an effect on tangible common equity or regulatory capital. Additional losses may result in a valuation allowance to deferred tax assets. If Whitney is unable to continue to generate, or is unable to demonstrate that it can continue to generate, sufficient taxable income in the near future, then the Company may not be able to fully realize the benefits of our deferred tax assets and may be required to recognize a valuation allowance, similar to an impairment of those assets, if it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Any such valuation allowance would have a negative effect on Whitney’s results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Whitney’s ability to pay dividends is subject to certain regulatory considerations. Whitney must currently obtain regulatory approval before increasing the common dividend rate above the current quarterly level of $0.1 per share. Regulatory policy statements provide that generally bank holding companies should only pay dividends out of current operating earnings and the level of dividends, if any, must be consistent with current and expected capital requirements. There are also various regulatory restrictions on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Company. Dividends received from the Bank have traditionally been Whitney’s principal source of cash flow. Because of recent losses, the Bank currently has no capacity to declare dividends to the Company without prior regulatory approval. For additional information regarding the regulatory restrictions applicable to the Company and Bank, see “Supervision and Regulation” under Item 1. Whitney’s continued participation in the Capital Purchase Program may adversely affect our ability to retain customers, attract investors, compete for new business opportunities and retain high performing employees. Several financial institutions which participated in the CPP received approval from the Treasury to exit the program during the second half of 2009. These institutions have, or are in the process of, repurchasing the preferred stock and repurchasing or auctioning the warrant issued to the Treasury as part of the CPP. Whitney has not yet requested approval to repurchase the preferred stock and warrant from the Treasury. In order to repurchase one or both securities, in whole or in part, we must establish that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase these securities from the Treasury. Our customers, employees, counterparties in our current and future business relationships, and the media may draw negative implications regarding the strength of Whitney as a financial institution based on our continued participation in the CPP following the exit of one or more of our competitors or other financial institutions. Any such negative perceptions may impair our ability to effectively compete with other financial institutions for business. In addition, because we have not yet repurchased the Treasury’s CPP investment, we remain subject to the restrictions on incentive compensation contained in the ARRA. Financial institutions which have repurchased the Treasury’s CPP investment are relieved of the restrictions imposed by the ARRA and its implementing regulations. Due to these restrictions, we may not be able to successfully compete with financial institutions that have repurchased the Treasury’s investment to retain and attract high performing employees. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected, perhaps materially. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect Whitney. Whitney’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. Financial institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty and other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions or the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. 15 Table of Contents Concern by customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources available to Whitney. With recent increased bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit with their bank is fully insured and some may seek deposit products or other bank savings and investment products that are collateralized. Decreases in deposits and changes in the mix of funding sources may adversely affect the Company’s funding costs and net income. Whitney’s profitability depends in substantial part on net interest income and on its ability to manage interest rate risk. Whitney’s net interest income represented more than 75% of total revenues in each of the last five years. Net interest income is the difference between the interest earned on loans, investment securities and other earning assets, and interest owed on deposits and borrowings. Numerous and often interrelated factors influence Whitney’s ability to maintain and grow net interest income, and a number of these factors are addressed in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations located in Item 7 of this annual report on Form 10-K. One of the most important factors is changes in market interest rates and in the relationship between these rates for different financial instruments and products and at different maturities. Such changes are generally outside the control of management and cannot be predicted with certainty. Although management applies significant resources to anticipating these changes and to developing and executing strategies for operating in an environment of change, they cannot eliminate the possibility that interest rate risk will negatively affect the Company’s net interest income and lead to earnings volatility. Whitney’s business is highly regulated. Our compliance with existing and proposed banking legislation and regulation, including our compliance with regulatory and supervisory actions, could adversely limit or restrict our activities and adversely affect our business, operating flexibility and financial condition. Whitney is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations and limit the businesses in which we may engage. The Company and the Bank are subject to regular examinations, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal authorities with regard to compliance with such laws and regulations impacting financial institutions. For additional information, see “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The cost of compliance with such laws and regulations can be substantial and adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Current economic conditions, particularly in the financial and real estate markets, have resulted in bank regulatory agencies placing increased focus and scrutiny on participants in the financial services industry, including Whitney. As a result of the difficult operating environment and the Company’s operating losses, the Company’s and the Bank’s primary regulators have required certain actions. See above “Supervision and Regulation.” While the Company has already commenced and implemented initiatives and strategies to address these regulatory issues and the Company believes that it has made significant progress in the adoption and implementation of plans and policies, the Company will likely devote significant time and resources of our management team, which may increase our costs, impede the efficiency of our internal business processes and adversely affect our profitability in the near term. If the Company or the Bank are unable to implement these plans in a timely manner and otherwise meet the commitments outlined above or if we fail to adequately resolve any other matters that any of our regulators may require us to address in the future, we could become subject to more stringent supervisory actions, up to and including a cease and desist order. If our regulators were to take such supervisory action, we could, among other things, become subject to significant restrictions on our existing business or on our ability to develop any new business. We also could be required to raise additional capital in the future, restrict or reduce our dividends or dispose of certain assets and liabilities within a prescribed period of time. The terms of any such supervisory action could have a material negative effect on our business, operating flexibility and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Reductions in the Company’s or the Bank’s credit ratings could reduce access to funding sources in the credit and capital markets and increase funding costs. Numerous rating agencies regularly evaluate our creditworthiness and assign credit ratings to the debt of the Company and the Bank. The agencies’ ratings are based on a number of factors, some of which are not within our control. In addition to factors specific to the financial strength and performance of the Company and the Bank, the rating agencies also consider conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. During 2009, several rating agencies downgraded select ratings for both the Company and the Bank, which was also the case for a number of other financial services industry entities. All of the Bank’s debt ratings remain investment grade. All of the Company’s ratings remain investment grade, with the exception of the Standard & Poor’s long-term debt rating, which is one level below investment grade. The agencies have also reported either a stable or negative ratings outlook for both the Company and the Bank. In light of the difficulties confronting the financial services industry generally, and the Company and the Bank specifically, including, among others, the weak global economic conditions, credit market disruptions, and the severe stress on residential and commercial real estate markets, there can be no assurance that the Company and the Bank will not receive further downgrades or that any of our ratings will remain investment grade. Further rating reductions by one or more rating agencies could adversely affect our access to funding sources and the cost and other terms of obtaining funding. Long-term debt ratings also factor into the calculation of deposit insurance premiums, and a reduction in the Bank’s ratings may increase premiums and expenses. The Company’s financial condition and outlook may be adversely affected by damage to Whitney’s reputation. Our financial condition and outlook is highly dependent upon perceptions of our business practices and reputation. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees could be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. Negative public opinion could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, corporate governance, regulatory compliance, mergers and acquisitions, disclosure, existing or future litigation, sharing or inadequate protection of customer information and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to that conduct. Damage to our reputation could give rise to legal risks, which, in turn, could increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. The costs and effects of litigation, derivative suits, investigations or similar matters, or adverse facts and developments related thereto, could materially affect Whitney’s business, operating results and financial condition. Whitney may be involved from time to time in a variety of litigation, derivative suits, investigations or similar matters arising out of our business. In 2009, we received, like many other financial institutions, a demand letter from a shareholder asserting that the Company’s incentive compensation between 2004 and 2008 was excessive and that the performance goals under its compensation plans were only achieved through imprudent business practices. The Board of Directors formed a special committee of independent directors to investigate this shareholder claim. The special committee conducted a thorough review of the demand allegations and concluded in its investigation that the there is no substantiation for the claims of wrongful conduct referenced in the shareholder demand and recommended that the demand be rejected. The Board adopted the special committee’s conclusions and recommendation. Neither management nor the special committee can predict at this time whether the shareholder will file a derivative lawsuit notwithstanding the special committee’s conclusion and Board’s adoption of the special committee’s recommendation. The Company’s insurance may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us, including the claim set forth above, and indemnification rights to which we are entitled may not be honored, and any claims asserted against us, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, may harm our reputation. Should the ultimate judgments or settlements in any litigation or investigation significantly exceed our insurance coverage, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, premiums for insurance covering the financial and banking sectors are rising. We may not be able to obtain appropriate types 17 Table of Contents or levels of insurance in the future, nor may we be able to obtain adequate replacement policies with acceptable terms or at historic rates, if at all. We rely on our systems and employees, and any errors or fraud could materially adversely affect our operations. Whitney is exposed to many types of operational risk, including the risk of fraud by employees and outsiders, clerical and recordkeeping errors, and computer/telecommunications systems malfunctions. The Bank’s business is dependent on its ability to process a large number of increasingly complex transactions. We have committed to make significant investments of time and resources into changing and improving our core systems and processes. We refer to this program internally as our Project Genesis program. If the operations of, or any of the changes to, our financial, accounting, or other data processing systems, including our Project Genesis program, fail or have other significant shortcomings, we could be materially adversely affected. We are similarly dependent on our employees. We could be materially adversely affected if one of our employees causes a significant operational breakdown or failure, either as a result of human error or where an individual purposefully sabotages or fraudulently manipulates our operations or systems. Third parties with which we do business also could be sources of operational risk to us due to breakdowns or failures of such parties’ own systems or employees. Any of these occurrences could diminish our ability to operate our business and result in potential liability to customers, reputation damage and regulatory intervention, which could materially adversely affect us. We may also be subject to disruptions of our operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which may include, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages or natural disasters. Such disruptions may give rise to losses in service to customers and loss or liability to us. In addition, there is a risk that our business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. Any such failure could affect our operations and could materially adversely affect our results of operations by requiring us to expend significant resources to correct the defect, as well as by exposing us to litigation or losses not covered by insurance. The senior preferred stock issued to the Treasury impacts net income available to Whitney’s common shareholders and its earnings per share. On December 19, 2008, the Company issued senior preferred stock (Series A preferred stock) to the Treasury in an aggregate amount of $300 million, along with a warrant for 2,631,579 shares of common stock. As long as shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock issued under the CPP are outstanding, no dividends may be paid on the Company’s common stock unless all dividends on the Series A preferred stock have been paid in full. Additionally, the Company is not permitted to pay cash dividends in excess of $.31 per share per quarter on its common stock for three years from the preferred stock issue date without the Treasury’s consent, unless Treasury no longer owns the preferred stock. The dividends declared on shares of the Company’s Series A preferred stock reduce the net income available to common shareholders and the Company’s earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase the Company’s common stock issued to the Treasury may be dilutive to the Company’s earnings per share. There can be no assurance when the Series A preferred stock can be redeemed and the Warrant can be repurchased. Subject to consultation with the Company’s banking regulators, Whitney intends to repurchase the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant issued to the Treasury when we believe the credit metrics in our loan portfolio have improved for the long-term and the overall economy has rebounded. However, there can be no assurance when the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant can be repurchased, if at all. Until such time as the Series A preferred stock and the Warrant are repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions of those instruments, which, among other things, require Whitney to obtain regulatory approval to repurchase or redeem common stock or our other preferred stock or increase the dividends on the Company’s common stock over $.31 per share, except in limited circumstances. Further, Whitney’s continued participation in the CPP subjects us to increased regulatory and legislative oversight, including with respect to executive compensation. These new and any future oversight and legal requirements and implementing standards under the CPP may have unforeseen or unintended adverse effects on the financial services industry as a whole, and particularly on CPP participants such as Whitney. 18 Table of Contents Holders of the Series A preferred stock have rights that are senior to those of Whitney’s common shareholders. The Series A preferred stock that the Company has issued to the Treasury is senior to its shares of common stock, and holders of the Series A preferred stock have certain rights and preferences that are senior to holders of the Company’s common stock. The restrictions on the Company’s ability to declare and pay dividends to common shareholders are discussed above. In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries may not purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of the Company’s common stock unless the Company has paid in full all accrued dividends on the Series A preferred stock for all prior dividend periods, other than in certain circumstances. Furthermore, the Series A preferred stock is entitled to a liquidation preference over shares of the Company’s common stock in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Holders of the Series A preferred stock may, under certain circumstances, have the right to elect two directors to Whitney’s board of directors. In the event that the Company fails to pay dividends on the Series A preferred stock for an aggregate of six quarterly dividend periods or more (whether or not consecutive), the authorized number of directors then constituting the Company’s board of directors will be increased by two. Holders of the Series A preferred stock, together with the holders of any outstanding parity stock with like voting rights, will be entitled to elect the two additional members of the board of directors at the next annual meeting (or at a special meeting called for this purpose) and at each subsequent annual meeting until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past dividend periods have been paid in full. Holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. Except in connection with the election of directors to the Company’s board of directors as discussed immediately above and as otherwise required by law, holders of the Series A preferred stock have limited voting rights. In addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or Whitney’s amended and restated charter, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A preferred stock outstanding is required for (1) any authorization or issuance of shares ranking senior to the Series A preferred stock; (2) any amendment to the rights of the Series A preferred stock that adversely affects the rights, preferences, privileges or voting power of the Series A preferred stock; or (3) consummation of any merger, share exchange or similar transaction unless the shares of Series A preferred stock remain outstanding or are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity other than the Company and have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting power as are not materially less favorable than those of the holders the Series A preferred stock. Whitney may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing shareholders. In order to maintain the Company’s or the Bank’s capital at desired or regulatorily-required levels or to replace existing capital such as the Series A preferred stock, the Company may be required to issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. The Company may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute shareholder ownership. The Company could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions. New banking laws and regulations could materially affect our operations and our cost of doing business. Legislation is now pending in Congress that would, if enacted, substantially change the regulatory framework for the banking industry, limit certain activities, impose new operational requirements, and increase consumer compliance obligations. The OCC and the federal bank regulatory agencies already have authority to impose many of these changes. If any new laws or regulations take effect, such changes could materially affect the way we do business and increase our compliance requirements. 19 Table of Contents The short-term and long-term impact of a likely new capital framework, whether through the current proposal for non-Basel II U.S. banking institutions or through another set of capital standards, is uncertain. For U.S. banking institutions with assets of less than $250 billion and foreign exposures of less than $10 billion, including the Company and the Bank, a proposal is currently pending that would apply to them the “standardized approach” of the new risk-based capital standards developed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). As a result of the deterioration in the global credit markets and increases in credit, liquidity, interest rate, and other risks, the U.S. banking regulators have discussed possible increases in capital requirements, separate from the current proposal for the standardized approach of Basel II. Furthermore, in September 2009, the Treasury issued principles for international regulatory reform, which included recommendations for higher capital standards for all banking organizations to be implemented as part of a broader reconsideration of international risk-based capital standards developed by Basel II. Any new capital framework is likely to affect the cost and availability of different types of credit. U.S. banking organizations are likely to be required to hold higher levels of capital and could incur increased compliance costs. It is unclear at this time if similar increases in capital standards will be incorporated into a revised Basel II proposal that would be adopted by international financial institutions. Any of these developments, including increased capital requirements, could have a material negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Whitney’s market area is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms, which may increase the Company’s exposure to credit risk, operational risk and liquidity risk. Most of Whitney’s market area lies within the coastal region of the five states bordering the Gulf of Mexico. This is a region that is susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms. The two strong hurricanes that struck in 2005 had a major impact on the greater New Orleans area, southwest Louisiana and the Mississippi coast, with lesser impacts on coastal Alabama and the western panhandle of Florida. Within its broader market area, the greater New Orleans area is Whitney’s primary base of operations and is home to branches and relationship officers that service approximately 40% of the Bank’s total loans and 50% of total deposits at December 31, 2009. The 2005 storms caused widespread property damage, required temporary or permanent relocations of a large number of residents and business operations, and severely disrupted normal economic activity in the impacted areas. Although the Bank was able to operate successfully in the aftermath of these storms, management carefully studied its risk posture and has taken a number of steps to reduce the Bank’s exposure to future natural disasters and make its disaster recovery plans and operating arrangements more resilient. Details of the storms’ impact on Whitney, both operationally and with respect to credit risk and liquidity, has been chronicled in Item 7 of the Company’s annual reports on Forms 10-K for 2007, 2006 and 2005. Whitney cannot predict the extent to which future storms may impact its exposure to credit risk, operational risk or liquidity risk. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 