Item 1A. Risk Factors References in this item to “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Lennox International Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. 9 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that are based on information currently available to management as well as management’s assumptions and beliefs. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including but not limited to statements identified by the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “plan,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and “expect” and similar expressions. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events, based on what we believe are reasonable assumptions; however, such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. In addition to the specific uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, the risk factors set forth below may affect our performance and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or review any forward-looking statements or information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. We believe these are the principal material risks currently facing our business, however, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Cooler than Normal Summers and Warmer than Normal Winters May Depress Our Sales. Demand for our products and for our services is strongly affected by the weather. Cooler than normal summers depress our sales of replacement air conditioning and refrigeration products and warmer than normal winters have the same effect on our heating products. Implementation of the New Minimum Efficiency Standard for Residential Air Conditioners Mandated by NAECA Could Adversely Impact Our Results of Operations. We are subject to appliance efficiency regulations promulgated under NAECA and various state regulations concerning the energy efficiency of our products. As of January 23, 2006, all residential central air conditioners manufactured after such date must comply with a minimum 13 SEER standard under NAECA. This standard increased the minimum SEER standard by 30 percent. We are currently in compliance with the new standard; however, air conditioning products with ratings lower than 13 SEER manufactured prior to January 23, 2006 can continue to be sold legally after that date. Therefore, quantities of non-13 SEER compliant product that remain in the industry’s distribution pipeline after January 23, 2006 may have an adverse effect on our operating results during the 2006 cooling season. We are unable to predict the extent to which this may occur. Similar new standards are being promulgated for commercial air conditioning and refrigeration equipment. Implementation of the new 13 SEER minimum efficiency standard for residential air conditioners and any new standards for commercial air conditioning and refrigeration equipment could adversely impact our results of operations, due to lower factory productivity, increased costs of production and distribution, potential margin pressures, increased costs related to warranty and product liability claims and higher levels of working capital and we may not be able to realize the price increases required to offset the increases in cost of goods sold. We May Incur Substantial Costs as a Result of Warranty and Product Liability Claims Which Could Negatively Affect Our Profitability. The development, manufacture, sale and use of our products involve risks of warranty and product liability claims. In addition, because we own installing heating and air conditioning dealers in the United 10 Table of Contents States and Canada, we incur the risk of liability claims for the installation and service of heating and air conditioning products. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in substantial costs that would have an adverse effect on our future profitability. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our product liability insurance and certain product liability claims may not be covered by our product liability insurance either. Our Business Could be Adversely Affected by an Economic Downturn. Our business is affected by a number of economic factors, including the level of economic activity in the markets in which we operate. Our sales in the residential and commercial new construction market correlate to the number of new homes and buildings that are built, which in turn is influenced by cyclical factors such as interest rates, inflation, consumer spending habits, employment rates and other macroeconomic factors over which we have no control. In the HVACR business, a decline in economic activity as a result of these cyclical or other factors typically results in a decline in new construction and replacement purchases, which could result in a decrease in our sales and profitability. We May Not be Able to Compete Favorably in the Highly Competitive HVACR Business. Substantially all of the markets in which we operate are highly competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product reliability, product performance, service and price, with the relative importance of these factors varying among our product lines. Other factors that affect competition in the HVACR market include the development and application of new technologies, an increasing emphasis on the development of more efficient HVACR products, and new product introductions. Our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have, allowing them to invest in more extensive research and development and/or marketing activity. In addition, our Service Experts segment faces competition from independent dealers and dealers owned by utility companies and other consumer service providers, some of whom may be able to provide their products or services at lower prices than we can. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors and current and future competitive pressures may cause us to reduce our prices or lose market share, or could negatively affect our cash flow, which could have an adverse effect on our future financial results. We May Not be Able to Successfully Develop and Market New Products. Our future success depends on our continued investment in research and new product development and our ability to commercialize new technological advances in the HVACR industry. If we are unable to continue to successfully develop and market new products or to achieve technological advances on a pace consistent with that of our competitors, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Business and Price Increases or Significant Supply Interruptions Could Increase Our Operating Costs and/or Depress Sales. We depend on raw materials, such as copper, aluminum and steel, and components purchased from third parties. We generally concentrate purchases for a given raw material or component with one or two suppliers. Although we believe there are alternative suppliers for all of our key raw material and component needs, if a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, we could experience supply interruptions or cost increases, either of which could have an adverse effect on our gross profit. In addition, although we regularly pre-purchase a portion of our raw materials at a fixed price each year to hedge against price increases, a large increase in raw materials prices could significantly increase our cost of goods sold. Increases in the prices or quantities of raw materials or components we require or significant supply interruptions could affect the prices we charge for our products and services negatively impacting our competitive position, which may result in depressed sales. 11 Table of Contents Because a Significant Percentage of Our Workforce is Unionized, We Face Risks of Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Problems. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 24% of our workforce was unionized. As we expand our operations, we may be subject to increased unionization of our workforce. While we believe our relationships with the unions representing our employees are generally good, the results of future negotiations with these unions and the effects of any production interruptions or labor stoppages could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations that Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. We are involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to our business, including those involving product liability, labor relations and environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we cannot be certain that existing litigation or any future adverse developments will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. In addition, we are subject to extensive and changing federal, state and local laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. These laws and regulations could impose liability for remediation costs and civil or criminal penalties in cases of non-compliance. Compliance with environmental laws increases our costs of doing business. Because these laws are subject to frequent change, we are unable to predict the future costs resulting from environmental compliance. Any Future Determination that a Significant Impairment of the Value of Our Goodwill Intangible Asset has Occurred Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Results of Operations. As of December 31, 2005, we had goodwill, net of accumulated amortization, of approximately $223.9 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Any future determination that a significant impairment of the value of goodwill has occurred would require a write-down of the impaired portion of unamortized goodwill to fair value, which would reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity and could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We May Not be Able to Successfully Integrate and Operate Businesses that We may Acquire. From time to time, we may seek to complement or expand our business through strategic acquisitions. The success of these transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate and operate the acquired businesses profitably. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions with our operations, we may not realize the anticipated benefits associated with such transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 