Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk Factors Our business, financial condition and results of operations can be impacted by a number of risk factors, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which in turn could materially and adversely affect the price of our common stock or other securities. References in this section to our fiscal year refer to the fiscal year ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each year. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. At October 2, 2009, we had $61.4 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior secured notes outstanding due November 2010 and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes outstanding. In September 2009, we completed a tender offer for $73.0 million of our floating rate senior secured notes and purchased another $7.0 million of these notes, using proceeds from the sale of our BBA business and other completed transactions and available cash on hand. The convertible notes are due in March 2026, but the holders may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or part of their notes on March 1, 2011, March 1, 2016 and March 1, 2021 at a price of 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. We also have a $50.0 million credit facility with a bank that expires on November 27, 2009 at which time we will no longer be able to draw down on the credit facility. There was an outstanding balance of $28.7 million under the credit facility as of October 2, 2009. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility, we are allowed to repay any outstanding balance on or before May 27, 2010, through the collection of receivables in the ordinary course of business or out of our cash balances. Recent tightening of the credit markets and unfavorable economic conditions have led to a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in the credit and equity markets. If signs of improvement in the global economy do not progress as expected and the economic slowdown continues or worsens, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. If that happens, our ability to access the capital or credit markets may worsen and we may not be able to obtain sufficient capital to repay (i) the outstanding balance under our credit facility that expires on November 27, 2009, and (ii) the $250 million outstanding principal amount of our convertible subordinated notes when they become due in March 2026 or earlier as a result of the notes’ mandatory repurchase requirements. The first mandatory repurchase date for our convertible subordinated notes is March 1, 2011. In order to satisfy our outstanding debt obligations, we have initiated various actions, including a public offering of our common stock, the exchange of new securities for a portion of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes and the repurchase of our outstanding senior secured notes. In the event we are unable to satisfy or refinance all of our outstanding debt obligations as the obligations are required to be paid, we will be required to consider strategic and other alternatives, including, among other things, the sale of assets to generate funds, the negotiation of revised terms of our indebtedness, and additional exchanges of our existing indebtedness obligations for new securities and additional equity offerings. We have retained financial advisors to assist us in considering these strategic, restructuring or other alternatives. There is no assurance that we would be successful in completing any of these alternatives. Further, we may not be able to refinance any portion of this debt on favorable terms or at all. Our failure to satisfy or refinance any of our indebtedness obligations as they come due, including through additional exchanges of new securities for existing indebtedness obligations or additional equity offerings, would result in a cross default and potential acceleration of our remaining indebtedness obligations, would have a material adverse effect on our business, and could potentially force us to restructure our indebtedness through a filing under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, in the future, we may need to make strategic investments and acquisitions to help us grow our business, which may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future. 9 Table of Contents There could be a negative effect on the price of our common stock if we issue equity securities to raise capital or in connection with a restructuring of any or all of our convertible subordinated notes. If we decide to issue any equity securities to raise capital or in connection with exchanges of or a restructuring of our convertible subordinated notes, there could be a substantial dilutive effect on our common stock and an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We are a much smaller company than in the recent past and dependent on fewer products for our success. We are a much smaller company than in the recent past with a narrower, less diversified and more focused portfolio of products. Our smaller size could cause our cash flow and growth prospects to be more volatile and make us more vulnerable to focused competition. As a smaller company, we will have less capital available for research and development and for strategic investments and acquisitions. We could also face greater challenges in satisfying or refinancing our debt obligations as they become due. In addition, we may not be able to appropriately restructure the supporting functions of the Company to fit the needs of a smaller company. We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally. For each of fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, net revenues from customers located outside of the United States (“U.S.”), primarily in the Asia-Pacific region, represented approximately 97%, 97% and 96% of our total net revenues, respectively. In addition, many of our key suppliers are located outside of the U.S. Our international operations consist of research and development, sales offices, and other general and administrative functions. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in operating abroad. These include, but are not limited to, risks regarding: • difficulty in obtaining distribution and support; • local economic and political conditions; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • disruptions of commerce and capital or trading markets due to or related to terrorist activity, armed conflict, or natural disasters; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; • changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • the laws and policies of the U.S. and other countries affecting trade, foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements; and • tax laws, including the cost of services provided and products sold between us and our subsidiaries which are subject to review by taxing authorities. Approximately $20.7 million of our $125.4 million of cash and cash equivalents at October 2, 2009 was located in foreign countries where we conduct business, including approximately $13.5 million in India and $2.5 million in China. These amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the U.S. without the imposition and payment, where applicable, of local taxes. Further, the repatriation of these funds is subject to compliance with applicable local government laws and regulations, and in some cases, requires governmental consent, including in India and China. Our inability to repatriate these funds quickly and without any required governmental consents may limit the resources available to us to fund our operations in the U.S. and other locations or to pay indebtedness. Recently proposed significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws would limit U.S. deductions for expenses related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit and “check-the-box” rules. We cannot determine whether these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, 10 Table of Contents changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If the U.S. tax laws change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, it could result in a material adverse impact on our net income and our financial position. Further, because most of our international sales are currently denominated in U.S. dollars, our products could become less competitive in international markets if the value of the U.S. dollar increases relative to foreign currencies. From time to time, we may enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to minimize risk of loss from currency exchange rate fluctuations for foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have not entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts for other purposes. As of October 2, 2009 we did not have any outstanding foreign currency forward exchange contracts. Our financial condition and results of operations could be affected (adversely or favorably) by currency fluctuations. We also conduct a significant portion of our international sales through distributors. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 36%, 34% and 35% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our arrangements with these distributors are terminable at any time, and the loss of these arrangements could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns that may negatively impact our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving technical standards, short product life cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Recent domestic and global economic conditions have presented unprecedented and challenging conditions reflecting continued concerns about the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, declining real estate values, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence and spending and added concerns fueled by the U.S. federal government’s interventions in the U.S. financial and credit markets. These conditions have contributed to instability in both U.S. and international capital and credit markets and diminished expectations for the U.S. and global economy. In addition, these conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could cause U.S. and foreign businesses to slow spending on our products, which could cause our sales to decrease or result in an extension of our sales cycles. Further, given uncertainty in the economic environment, our customers may have difficulties obtaining capital at adequate or historical levels to finance their ongoing business and operations, which could impair their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would be negatively impacted. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or within our industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate continue to be subject to these adverse economic conditions, our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations will be adversely affected. We are subject to intense competition. The communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete in particular are intensely competitive. We compete worldwide with a number of U.S. and international semiconductor providers that are both larger and smaller than us in terms of resources and market share. We continually face significant competition in our markets. This competition results in declining average selling prices for our products. We also anticipate that additional competitors will enter our markets as a result of expected growth opportunities, technological and public policy changes and relatively low barriers to entry in certain markets of the industry. Many of our competitors have certain advantages over us, such as significantly greater sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical, financial and other resources. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have a stronger financial position, less indebtedness and greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to devote greater financial resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. The advantages of our competitors may increase now that we have become a significantly smaller company following the sale of our BBA business. 11 Table of Contents We believe that the principal competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our addressed markets are: • time-to-market; • product quality, reliability and performance; • level of integration; • price and total system cost; • compliance with industry standards; • design and engineering capabilities; • strategic relationships with customers; • customer support; • new product innovation; and • access to manufacturing capacity. In addition, the financial stability of suppliers is an important consideration in our customers’ purchasing decisions. Our relationship with existing and potential customers could be adversely affected if our customers perceive that we lack an appropriate level of financial liquidity or stability or if they think we are too small to do business with. Current and potential competitors also have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with our existing or potential customers, resellers or other third parties. These relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and potential competitors. We own or lease a significant amount of space in which we do not conduct operations and doing so exposes us to the financial risks of default by our tenants and subtenants and expenses related to carrying vacant property. As a result of our various reorganization and restructuring related activities, we lease or own a number of domestic facilities in which we do not operate. At October 2, 2009, we had 554,000 square feet of vacant leased space and 456,000 square feet of owned space, of which approximately 88% was being sub-leased to third parties and 12% was vacant and offered for sublease. Included in these amounts are 389,000 square feet of owned space in Newport Beach that we have leased to Jazz Semiconductor, Inc. and 126,000 square feet of leased space in Newport Beach that we have sub-leased to Mindspeed Technologies, Inc. As of October 2, 2009, the aggregate amount owed to landlords under space we lease but do not operate over the remaining terms of the leases was approximately $89.5 million and, of this amount, subtenants had lease obligations to us in the aggregate amount of $11 million. The space we have subleased to others is, in some cases, at rates less than the amounts we are required to pay landlords and, of the aggregate obligations we had to landlords for unused space at October 2, 2009, approximately $22.8 million was attributable to space we were attempting to sublease. In the event one or more of our subtenants fails to make lease payments to us or otherwise defaults on their obligations to us, we could incur substantial unanticipated payment obligations to landlords. In addition, in the event tenants of space we own fail to make lease payments to us or otherwise default on their obligations to us, we could be required to seek new tenants and we cannot assure you that our efforts to do so would be successful or that the rates at which we could do so would be attractive. In the event our estimates regarding our ability to sublet our available space are incorrect, we would be required to adjust our restructuring reserves which could have a material impact on our financial results in the future. 12 Table of Contents Our revenues, cash flow from operations and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future, particularly given adverse domestic and global economic conditions. Our revenues, cash flow and results of operations have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the timing of receipt, reduction or cancellation of significant orders by customers; • adverse economic conditions, including the unavailability or high cost of credit to our customers; • the inability of our customers to forecast demand based on adverse economic conditions; • seasonal customer demand; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • the timing and extent of product development costs; • new product and technology introductions by competitors; • changes in the mix of products we develop and sell; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • availability and cost of products from our suppliers; • intellectual property disputes; and • the effect of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these as well as other factors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, cash flow and results of operations. We have recently incurred substantial losses and may incur additional future losses. Our (loss) income from continuing operations for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $(26.9) million, $0.2 million, and $(167.4) million, respectively. These results have had a negative impact on our financial condition and operating cash flows. One of our primary sources of liquidity included borrowing under our credit facility, which expires on November 27, 2009. As permitted by the terms of the credit facility, we plan to repay any outstanding balance under this facility on or before May 27, 2010, through the collection of receivables in the ordinary course of business or out of our cash balances. However, we cannot assure you that our business will be profitable or that we will not incur additional substantial losses in the future. Additional operating losses, lower than expected product sales or our inability to restructure our outstanding indebtedness or obtain additional capital to repay our indebtedness obligations will adversely affect our cash flow and financial condition and could impair our ability to satisfy our indebtedness obligations as such obligations come due. Our ability to use our net operating losses (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes to offset future taxable income could be limited by an ownership change and/or decisions by California and other states to suspend the use of NOLs. We have significant NOLs, research and development (“R&D”) tax credits, capitalized R&D and amortizable goodwill available to offset our future U.S. federal and state taxable income. Our ability to utilize these NOLs and other tax attributes may be subject to significant limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (and applicable state law) if we undergo an ownership change. An ownership change occurs for purposes of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code if, among other things, 5% stockholders (i.e., stockholders who own or have owned 13 Table of Contents 5% or more of our stock (with certain groups of less-than-5% stockholders treated as single stockholders for this purpose)) increase their aggregate percentage ownership of our stock by more than fifty percentage points above the lowest percentage of the stock owned by these stockholders at any time during the relevant testing period. An issuance of our common stock in connection with or as part of an exchange offer for our debt securities or any other issuance of our common stock can contribute to or result in an ownership change under Section 382. Stock ownership for purposes of Section 382 of the Code is determined under a complex set of attribution rules, so that a person is treated as owning stock directly, indirectly (i.e., through certain entities) and constructively (through certain related persons and certain unrelated persons acting as a group). In the event of an ownership change, Section 382 imposes an annual limitation (based upon our value at the time of the ownership change, as determined under Section 382 of the Code) on the amount of taxable income a corporation may offset with NOLs. If we undergo an ownership change, Section 382 would also limit our ability to use R&D tax credits. In addition, if the tax basis of our assets exceeded the fair market value of our assets at the time of the ownership change, Section 382 could also limit our ability to use amortization of capitalized R&D and goodwill to offset taxable income for the first five years following an ownership change. Any unused annual limitation may be carried over to later years until the applicable expiration date for the respective NOLs. As a result, our inability to utilize these NOLs, credits or amortization as a result of any ownership changes, could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, California and certain states have suspended use of NOLs for certain taxable years, and other states are considering similar measures. As a result, we may incur higher state income tax expense in the future. Depending on our future tax position, continued suspension of our ability to use NOLs in states in which we are subject to income tax could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to timely develop competitive new products and reduce costs. Our operating results depend largely on our ability to introduce new and enhanced semiconductor products on a timely basis. Successful product development and introduction depends on numerous factors, including, among others, our ability to: • anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in technology and industry standards; • accurately define new products; • complete development of new products and bring our products to market on a timely basis; • differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors; • achieve overall market acceptance of our products; and • coordinate product development efforts between and among our sites, particularly in India and China, to manage the development of products at remote geographic locations. We may not have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products, and our recent reductions in our R&D headcount and other cost savings initiatives could further hinder our ability to invest in research and development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance, or that we will be able to anticipate new industry standards and technological changes. The complexity of our products may lead to errors, defects and bugs which could subject us to significant costs or damages and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors. In addition, prices of established products may decline, sometimes significantly and rapidly, over time. We believe that in order to remain competitive we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering existing products at the same time as we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We cannot assure you that we will be successful and as a result our gross margins may decline in future periods. 14 Table of Contents We have significant goodwill and intangible assets, and future impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. At October 2, 2009, we had $109.9 million of goodwill and $5.6 million of intangible assets, net, which together represented approximately 33% of our total assets. In periods subsequent to an acquisition, at least on an annual basis or when indicators of impairment exist, we must evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. If our market capitalization drops below our book value for a prolonged period of time, if our assumptions regarding our future operating performance change or if other indicators of impairment are present, we may be required to write-down the value of our goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets by taking a charge against earnings. Our remaining goodwill is associated with our business. Overall financial performance declines in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 resulted in us performing an interim test for goodwill impairment related to such business. We determined that, despite a decline in this business, performance levels remained sufficient to support the related goodwill as of January 2, 2009. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009, we determined that the fair value of our business is greater than its carrying value and therefore there is no impairment of goodwill as of October 2, 2009. Because of the significance of our remaining goodwill and intangible asset balances, any future impairment of these assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, although, as a charge, it would have no effect on our cash flow. Significant impairments may also impact shareholders’ deficit. The loss of a key customer could seriously impact our revenue levels and harm our business. In addition, if we are unable to continue to sell existing and new products to our key customers in significant quantities or to attract new significant customers, our future operating results could be adversely affected. We have derived a substantial portion of our past revenue from sales to a relatively small number of customers. As a result, the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Sales to our twenty largest customers, including distributors, represented approximately 87%, 83% and 82% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, there was one distributor that accounted for 23%, 23% and 23%, respectively, of our net revenues. We expect that our largest customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in future periods. The identities of our largest customers and their respective contributions to our net revenue have varied and will likely continue to vary from period to period. We may not be able to maintain or increase sales to certain of our key customers for a variety of reasons, including the following: • most of our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty; • our agreements with our customers typically do not require them to purchase a minimum quantity of our products; • our customers’ perceptions of our liquidity and viability may have a negative impact on their decisions to incorporate our products into their own products; • many of our customers have pre-existing or concurrent relationships with our current or potential competitors that may affect the customers’ decisions to purchase our products; • our customers face intense competition from other manufacturers that do not use our products; • some of our customers offer or may offer products that compete with our products; • some of our customers’ liquidity may be negatively affected by continued uncertainty in global economic conditions; and • our smaller size after selling our BBA business, our cost-savings efforts and any future liquidity constraints may limit our ability to develop and deliver new products to customers. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our longstanding relationships with some larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could seriously impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Further, our product portfolio consists predominantly of semiconductor solutions for the communications, PC, and consumer markets. Recent unfavorable domestic and global economic conditions have had an adverse impact on demand in these end-user markets by reducing overall consumer spending or shifting consumer spending to products other than those made by our customers. Continued reduced sales by our customers in these end-markets will adversely impact demand by our customers for our products and could also slow new product introductions by our customers and by us. Lower net sales of our products would have an adverse effect on our revenue, cash flow and results of operations. We may not be able to keep abreast of the rapid technological changes in our markets. The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate because our markets generally exhibit the following characteristics: • rapid technological developments; • rapid changes in customer requirements; • frequent new product introductions and enhancements; • short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the products; and • evolving industry standards. Our products could become obsolete sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated change in one or more of the technologies related to our products or in market demand for products based on a particular technology, particularly due to the introduction of new technology that represents a substantial advance over current technology. Currently accepted industry standards are also subject to change, which may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. Furthermore, as a smaller company following the sale of our BBA business, we might not be able to fund sufficient research and development to keep up with technological developments. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or demands that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and loss of our ability to use, make, sell, export or import our products or one or more components comprising our products. The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their patents and technology. Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe these rights, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If litigation results in an adverse ruling we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • discontinue the use of infringing technology; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, which we may not be successful in developing; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 16 Table of Contents If OEMs of communications electronics products do not design our products into their equipment, we will be unable to sell those products. Moreover, a design win from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer. Our products are components of other products. As a result, we rely on OEMs of communications electronics products to select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. We may be unable to achieve these “design wins.” Without design wins from OEMs, we would be unable to sell our products. Once an OEM designs another supplier’s semiconductors into one of its product platforms, it will be more difficult for us to achieve future design wins with that OEM’s product platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk. Achieving a design win with a customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer and we may be unable to convert design wins into actual sales. Even after a design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to stop using our products if, for example, it or its own products are not commercially successful. Because of the lengthy sales cycles of many of our products, we may incur significant expenses before we generate any revenues related to those products. Our customers may need six months or longer to test and evaluate our products and an additional six months or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates our products. The lengthy period of time required also increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which could reduce or eliminate sales to that customer. Thus, we may incur significant research and development, and selling, general and administrative expenses before we generate the related revenues for these products, and we may never generate the anticipated revenues if our customer cancels or changes its product plans. As a smaller company following the sale of our BBA business, exposure to lengthy sales cycles may increase the volatility of our revenue stream and common stock price. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders until 30 days prior to shipment. In addition, we sell a portion of our products through distributors and other resellers, some of whom have a right to return unsold products to us. Sales to distributors and other resellers accounted for approximately 36%, 34% and 35% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our distributors may offer products of several different suppliers, including products that may be competitive with ours. Accordingly, there is a risk that the distributors may give priority to other suppliers’ products and may not sell our products as quickly as forecasted, which may impact the distributors’ future order levels. We routinely purchase inventory based on estimates of end-market demand for our customers’ products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors and other resellers or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products. We are entirely dependent upon outside wafer fabrication facilities (known as foundries or fabs). Therefore, our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to obtain sufficient external manufacturing capacity, including wafer fabrication capacity. If the semiconductor industry experiences a shortage of wafer fabrication capacity in the future, we risk experiencing delays in access to key process technologies, production or shipments and increased manufacturing costs. Moreover, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build or expand wafer fabrication facilities. However, current unfavorable economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, decreased the level of liquidity in many financial markets and resulted in significant volatility in the credit and equity markets. These conditions may make it difficult for foundries to obtain adequate or historical levels of capital to finance the building or expansion of their wafer fabrication facilities, which would have an adverse impact on their production capacity and could in turn negatively impact our wafer output. In 17 Table of Contents addition, certain of our suppliers have required that we keep in place standby letters of credit for all or part of the products we order. Such requirement, or a requirement that we pre-pay for all or part of vendor invoices or that we shorten our payment cycle times in the future, may negatively impact our liquidity and cash position, or may not be available to us due to our then current liquidity or cash position, and would have a negative impact on our ability to produce and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. The foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to fulfill the production requirements of other customers that are larger and better financed than us. If we choose to use a new foundry, it typically takes several months to redesign our products for the process technology and intellectual property cores of the new foundry and to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products from the new foundry. We are also dependent upon third parties for the assembly and testing of our products. Our reliance on others to assemble and test our products subjects us to many of the same risks that we have with respect to our reliance on outside wafer fabrication facilities. Wafer fabrication processes are subject to obsolescence, and foundries may discontinue a wafer fabrication process used for certain of our products. In such event, we generally offer our customers a “last time buy” program to satisfy their anticipated requirements for our products. The unanticipated discontinuation of wafer fabrication processes on which we rely may adversely affect our revenues and our customer relationships. In the event of a disruption of the operations of one or more of our suppliers, we may not have a second manufacturing source immediately available. Such an event could cause significant delays in shipments until we could shift the products from an affected facility or supplier to another facility or supplier. The manufacturing processes we rely on are specialized and are available from a limited number of suppliers. Alternate sources of manufacturing capacity, particularly wafer fabrication capacity, may not be available to us on a timely basis. Even if alternate wafer fabrication capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, or at all. All such delays or disruptions could impair our ability to meet our customers’ requirements and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, the highly complex and technologically demanding nature of semiconductor manufacturing has caused foundries from time to time to experience lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, particularly in connection with the introduction of new products and the installation and start-up of new process technologies. Lower than anticipated manufacturing yields may affect our ability to fulfill our customers’ demands for our products on a timely basis and may adversely affect our cost of goods sold and our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins to our competitors. To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products, as well as standard cells and other integrated circuit designs that we may use in multiple products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundries to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to implement this transition efficiently, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could negatively affect our relationships with our customers and result in the loss of design wins to our competitors, which in turn would adversely affect our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all. Moreover, even if we are 18 Table of Contents able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our operating results, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to compete. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. At times, we incorporate the intellectual property of our customers into our designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. In the past, we have engaged in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. We may engage in future litigation on similar grounds, which may require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our management from our business operations. We cannot assure you that: • the steps we take to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers will be successful; • any existing or future patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; or • any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. If any of our patents fails to protect our technology, it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain countries. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances, acquisitions and where appropriate, divestitures and restructurings. Although we invest significant resources in research and development activities, the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in: • large initial one-time write-offs of in-process research and development; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; and • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers, and ultimately may not be successful. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our products and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of multiple operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, in the event that we have unprofitable operations or products we may be forced to restructure or divest such operations or products. There is no guarantee that we will be able to restructure or divest such operations or products on a timely basis or at a value that will avoid further losses or that will successfully mitigate the negative impact on our overall operations or financial results. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Our success could be negatively affected if key personnel leave. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and to retain the continued service and availability of skilled personnel at all levels of our business. As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a significant asset. The competition for such personnel can be intense. While we have entered into employment agreements with some of our key personnel, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management and other personnel necessary for the design, development and sale of our products. Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business. We are involved in various claims and lawsuits from time to time. For example, in February 2005, certain of our current and former officers and our Employee Benefits Plan Committee were named as defendants in a purported breach of fiduciary duties class action lawsuit that we recently settled for $3.25 million. Any of these claims or legal actions could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations and divert management’s attention and resources from other matters. We currently operate under tax holidays and favorable tax incentives in certain foreign jurisdictions. While we believe we qualify for these incentives that reduce our income taxes and operating costs, the incentives require us to meet specified criteria, which are subject to audit and review. We cannot assure that we will continue to meet such criteria and enjoy such tax holidays and incentives. If any of our tax holidays or incentives are terminated, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The price of our common stock is volatile and may fluctuate significantly. For example, since September 29, 2007, the price of our stock has ranged from a high of $14.80 per share to a low of $0.26 per share. There can be no assurance as to the prices at which our common stock will trade or that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained in the future. In addition to the matters discussed in other risk factors included herein, some of the reasons for fluctuations in our stock price could include: • our operating and financial performance and prospects; • our ability to repay or restructure our debt; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate; • investor perception of us as a going concern and of our ability to operate successfully as a company with a smaller cash flow and with significant debt obligations; • the level of research coverage of our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts; • general financial, domestic, international, economic and other market conditions; • proposed acquisitions by us or our competitors; • the hiring or departure of key personnel; and • adverse judgments or settlements obligating us to pay damages. In addition, public stock markets have experienced, and may in the future experience, extreme price and trading volume volatility, particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 