Risk Factors — Risks Related to Ownership by the Swiss Confederation — If another party acquires control of Swisscom as a result of the Swiss Confederation reducing its stake in Swisscom below 50%, Vodafone plc may exercise its conditional pre-emption rights to sell its 25% stake in Swisscom Mobile to Swisscom, and Swisscom’s counterparties in significant contracts may be able to terminate such contracts or demand additional security”. In November 2003, the original service agreement entered into as part of the cooperation with Vodafone was replaced by a new service agreement between Swisscom Mobile, Vodafone and Vodafone Marketing Sarl, to reflect the continued and deepening co-operation between Swisscom Mobile and Vodafone and the development of new technologies in recent years. Under the service agreement, each of Swisscom Mobile and Vodafone agreed to provide the other with access to its products and services, and to provide certain consultancy and supporting services in agreed circumstances. The service agreement also provides for a framework for co-managing international corporate accounts and co-operation in the area of product development, and gives Swisscom Mobile the right to use future upgrades of certain services and enabling platforms developed by the Vodafone group on normal commercial terms even if the service agreement is terminated. Swisscom Mobile pays an overall fee for all services and products provided by the Vodafone group companies. In general, all services provided by Swisscom Mobile under the service agreement are to be offered to Vodafone on terms and conditions equivalent to those offered to other members of the Swisscom group, while Vodafone is required to offer its services to Swisscom Mobile on terms and conditions equivalent to those offered to other members of the Vodafone Group of a size similar to Swisscom Mobile. Furthermore, each of Swisscom Mobile and Vodafone has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to offer the services provided under the service agreement to any other mobile telecommunications business in any of the Vodafone territories, in respect of Swisscom Mobile, and any of Switzerland and Liechtenstein, in the case of Vodafone. Swisscom Mobile and Vodafone have also entered into a branding agreement, which sets forth the terms for mutual use of their trade names and marks. Swisscom believes this strategic alliance enhances its competitive position in the mobile market. Through this alliance, Swisscom Mobile has access to Vodafone products, services and know-how and to other relevant global activities in mobile telecommunications. Swisscom Mobile may also participate in Vodafone’s worldwide arrangements for the procurement and/or supply chain management of infrastructure, handsets and other products, which enables Swisscom Mobile to realize cost savings. In 2005, Swisscom generated service revenue from the co-operation with Vodafone in the amount of CHF 88 million and paid an amount of CHF 103 million for services purchased from Vodafone. These payments primarily related to roaming charges that each of Swisscom Mobile and Vodafone paid the other for the use of the other’s network by its customers. 38 Table of Contents GSM and the Introduction of Next Generation Mobile Services Swisscom’s mobile services are provided using the global system for mobile communications (GSM) standard as well as the Universal Mobile Telecommunication System (UMTS), the dominant digital standards in Europe and much of the rest of the world. In 2001, Swisscom completed the implementation of general packet radio service (GPRS) technology in the network. GPRS is a standard for data transfer on GSM mobile phone networks and utilizes “packet switching” technology. In February 2002, Swisscom launched its first commercial GPRS service with a transmission rate of up to 50 kbit/s. In December 2000, Swisscom was awarded one of four UMTS licenses auctioned in Switzerland, for which it paid CHF 50 million. Universal mobile telecommunication system (UMTS) is a third generation mobile radio system that creates additional mobile radio capacity and enables broadband media applications while also providing high speed Internet access. Swisscom has achieved all milestones stipulated in the UMTS licence and successfully launched its commercial UMTS services in September 2004. In December 2002, Swisscom introduced a public wireless LAN (PWLAN) service. Swisscom Mobile is the leading PWLAN network operator in Switzerland, currently operating approximately 900 hotspots in Switzerland. In addition, Swisscom Mobile offers access to additional hotspots through roaming agreements mainly with Swisscom Eurospot. For more information on these networks and Swisscom’s PWLAN services, see “—Networks and Technology — Mobile Telecommunications Network” and “— Other — Swisscom Eurospot”. Swisscom continues to build out its broadband networks, such as UMTS. At the same time, Swisscom also invests in capacity enhancements and functional upgrades of its existing GSM network. For example, in order to further improve its GPRS services, Swisscom has activated Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) technology in all active GSM locations in early 2005. Other projects include building additional base stations in tunnels and along train routes and extending the reach of the network’s dual-band capability. To further enhance the customer experience, Swisscom will enable high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA) in selected dense urban areas in the course of 2006. Swisscom believes that it can provide its customers with a true broadband experience by providing seamless connectivity through a variety of technologies, e.g. HSDPA, UMTS, EDGE and WLAN. For further information on Swisscom’s mobile network, see “ — Networks and Technology — Mobile Telecommunications Network”. In December 1999, the Federal Council adopted an ordinance, known as the NIS Ordinance, which establishes emission standards to protect the population of Switzerland from non-ionizing radiation emitted by various sources, including mobile antennae and base stations. In July 2002, the Swiss Agency for the Environment, Forests and Landscape (“BUWAL”) issued final guidelines for enforcement authorities on the appropriate methods by which to measure electromagnetic emissions from base stations and masts in the GSM network, but which did not address emission standards for UMTS networks. Final guidelines relating to emission standards for UMTS networks were adopted in 2005. In order to comply with the applicable emission standards and to maintain its current level of service, Swisscom could be required to, install additional antennae. However, Swisscom does not expect the associated costs in 2006 to be materially different from those incurred in previous years. See “— Regulation — Mobile Telecommunications”. Base Fees Swisscom’s base fees are generated from monthly subscription fees paid by Swisscom’s postpaid mobile subscribers and include revenue generated from the sale of SIM cards. For more information on Swisscom’s mobile subscribers, monthly base fees and SIM card fees, please see “— Connectivity Voice”, below. 39 Table of Contents Connectivity Voice As the leading provider of mobile telephony services in Switzerland, Swisscom offers its customers mobile telephony service in Switzerland as well as abroad. Swisscom has roaming agreements with 425 mobile network operators worldwide covering 179 countries and earns revenue from those operators when their subscribers make mobile phone calls in Switzerland. Traffic. The table below sets forth, for the periods indicated, the volume of traffic relating to Swisscom’s mobile telephony business. In millions of minutes Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Connectivity Voice (1) 3,688 3,404 3,335 (1) Includes minutes from all outgoing calls made by Mobile subscribers as well as service accounts and traffic generated by service accounts. For information on average monthly minutes of use and average monthly revenue per mobile customer, see “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations by Segment — Mobile”. Principal Products. Swisscom currently offers a wide variety of mobile products, including pre- and post-paid products and products where calls are charged on either a per minute or per call basis. All of Swisscom’s mobile products except its data-only and prepaid, low-cost products provide Swisscom customers with the full range of mobile services, allowing them to make and receive calls within Switzerland or internationally, using the same telephone number over GSM and/or UMTS systems in countries where Swisscom has roaming agreements. In June 2005, Swisscom launched a new range of products designated as “liberty” products. Subscribers to these products are charged on a per call basis, rather than on a per-minute basis, when calling numbers in the national fixed-line network or when calling other subscribers within Swisscom’s mobile network. All other calls are charged per minute. Swisscom also introduced its M-Budget mobile product in September 2005, which addresses the no frills, low cost segment. The offer only includes voice, roaming and SMS services, with all other services (e.g. MMS, GPRS, etc.) disabled. Subscribers. The following table shows the total number of subscribers to Swisscom’s mobile services as of the dates indicated. In thousands(1) As of December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Postpaid 2,640 2,518 2,387 Of which subscribers to liberty products 570 — — Prepaid(2) 1,641 1,390 1,409 Of which subscribers to liberty products 65 — — Total Subscribers 4,281 3,908 3,796 (1) Includes service accounts. (2) Swisscom does not include accounts of any prepaid customer with inactivity of more than twelve months in its subscriber figures. A customer is deemed inactive after a period of twelve months without making a call or sending a SMS message. As of December 31, 2004, approximately 124,000 prepaid customers, which had not registered with Swisscom on a timely basis as required by law since July 2004, were deactivated. Since 1995, the number of mobile customers in the Swiss marketplace has grown annually, with overall market penetration reaching almost 92% at the end of 2005, based on data published by mobile network operators. Swisscom expects growth in the mobile market to continue, although at a slower rate in light of high market penetration. With growing market penetration, Swisscom increasingly focuses on customer retention. In order to promote customer retention, Swisscom has implemented customer loyalty and win-back programs, including incentives for twelve and twenty-four month contract commitments, handset subsidies and handset renewal possibilities, which resulted in a further decline of customer churn. While Swisscom’s mobile business relies primarily on Swisscom shops for sales and marketing, it is also expanding its use of indirect and alternative sales channels. 40 Table of Contents Tariffs. The following table provides an overview of the range of tariffs applicable as of December 31, 2005, in Swisscom’s principal product categories. All tariffs include VAT. SIM Monthly Night and (CHF) Card Fee Base Fees Peak(1) Off-Peak(2) Weekend(3) Charge per Min Postpaid products 40 15-75 0.18-0.70 0.15-0.70 0.15-0.70 Prepaid products 40 — (4) 0.37-0.99 0.37-0.90 0.37-0.80 Charge per Call (liberty products) Postpaid products 40 12/25 0.50 / 0.70 0.50 / 0.70 0.50 / 0.70 Prepaid products 40 — (4) 0.80 0.80 0.80 (1) Monday to Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., except holidays. (2) Monday to Friday from 6:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. (3) Monday to Friday from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., weekends and holidays. (4) Customers who use prepaid mobile products are charged an initial fee for the SIM card only; there is no fee for recharging the card. Swisscom offers a variety of tariff and service packages targeting different customer segments. Swisscom has introduced lower-cost products for residential and business customers, which have effectively resulted in an overall tariff reduction. Because Swisscom’s mobile customers can switch from one tariff to another, which Swisscom believes helps to prevent customer churn, the introduction of these new tariffs has led to a decline in the number of subscribers to Swisscom’s higher priced services. Swisscom expects that pressure on tariffs in both the residential and business segments will remain fierce in the future. Additional price reductions occurred as a result of Swisscom Mobile’s reduction of its termination rate from CHF 0.335 to CHF 0.20 in June 2005. Regulation of mobile access could still result in Swisscom being required to sell its competitors mobile telephony minutes on a cost-oriented basis for resale, which would put additional pressure on turnover. For calls placed and received outside Switzerland, customers are generally billed using a fixed tariff model under which tariffs vary depending on the user’s geographic “zone”. This model provides the customer high cost transparency and good cost control. Certain customers also have the option of being billed using a surcharge model under which a roaming surcharge is added to the tariffs imposed by the local mobile network operator. Connectivity Data and Value-Added Services Connectivity data and value-added services comprise mainly short messaging services (SMS), data traffic and services. Short messaging services (SMS), one of the most popular mobile data services, allows messages with up to 160 letters to be sent via a digital mobile phone. In 2002, Swisscom launched a multimedia messaging service (MMS), which is a further development of its SMS service. 41 Table of Contents The table below sets forth, for the periods indicated, the numbers of SMS messages sent. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Number of SMS messages (in millions)(1) 1,991 1,986 1,847 (1) Includes service accounts and traffic generated by service accounts. Does not include wholesale SMS messages. The mobile data service Vodafone live! allows customers to take and send picture messages, download games and polyphonic ringtones and to access information and entertainment services, such as live television, which now includes 22 television channels. These mobile entertainment and mobile data services are continually upgraded either globally through Vodafone or locally through Swisscom. E-mail synchronization services have been the primary growth driver for data services, and are expected to continue growing. In addition to Vodafone live!, Swisscom Mobile opened standardized interfaces to enable platforms which are used by third parties to offer mobile data and other services to Swisscom mobile subscribers. Examples of such services include premium priced SMS and MMS, which allow point of sale payment through mobile handsets. Other Customer Equipment Sales. Revenue from sales of mobile handsets through Swisscom shops is accounted for in Swisscom’s Fixnet segment. All other revenue from the sale of mobile handsets is allocated to Mobile. SICAP. SICAP, a wholly owned subsidiary of Swisscom Mobile AG provides prepaid billing services to mobile network operators worldwide, including so-called over-the-air solutions, through which prepaid GSM SIM-card settings can be modified. Competition In its mobile business, Swisscom faces competition primarily from the two other original mobile licensees in Switzerland, Orange and TDC (Sunrise). In December 2003, ComCom awarded GSM licenses to two other competitors, Tele2 and In&Phone. Tele2 launched a city network in Zurich in June 2005 and plans to expand its services to other cities either by building out its own network or by entering into national roaming agreements with the other mobile network operators. In&Phone has launched campus networks throughout Switzerland and is expected to enter into a national roaming agreement with TDC (Sunrise) in early 2006. Swisscom expects competition, especially for business customers, to remain strong in 2006 due to increased tariff pressure and competing enhanced data solutions. Competition in the residential segment is expected to be driven by handset subsidies as well as by new competitive price plans. In the future, Swisscom expects to face competition in the provision of GPRS, EDGE and UMTS services from TDC (Sunrise) and Orange, both of which hold Swiss UMTS licenses. As in the case of fixed-line voice telephony, competition in the mobile market has been facilitated by provisions of the Telecommunication Act and related ordinances requiring that Swisscom offer easy access and number portability. Although equal access is also mandated under the applicable regulations, ComCom has provisionally suspended the implementation of equal access in the mobile network until technical developments and international standards allow its implementation. 42 Table of Contents Solutions Overview Effective January 1, 2005, Enterprise Solutions merged with Swisscom Systems, formerly accounted for under the segment “Other”, to form a new business segment named Swisscom Solutions. Solutions is the leading provider of telecommunication services to business customers in Switzerland with complex needs. In 2005, Solutions generated total revenue of CHF 1.3 billion. With external revenues of CHF 1.1 billion in 2005, Solutions accounted for 11 % of Swisscom’s consolidated net revenue in 2005. • National and International Traffic. Solutions offers national and international fixed-line voice telephony services to business customers. In 2005, Solutions carried an aggregate of 1.9 billion minutes of national telephony traffic and 0.4 billion minutes of outgoing international traffic generated by business customers. • Leased Lines National. Solutions offers national leased lines services to business customers. • Intranet Services. Solutions offers Intranet services, consisting primarily of managed VPN (Virtual Private Networks) services to business customers. • Other Service Business. Solutions offers private network services, business internet access and business numbers, which business customers use to provide their customers with access to information services. In addition, Solutions offers international VPN and leased line services to its customers through partnerships. • Solution Business. Solutions offers business customers custom-made modular solutions to plan, build and run customers’ business communication needs. System Integration. Solutions provides a comprehensive portfolio of products and services related to data and telecommunications infrastructure, such as customer interaction management, consulting services, security solutions and live event support. Customer Services. Solutions offers a full range of operations and maintenance services in the field of private branch exchanges (PBXs) and in-house local area networks (LANs). Outsourcing. Solutions’ outsourcing services range from telecommunication outsourcing up to complete ICT outsourcing. • Other. Solutions offers rental agreements or various other financing models through third parties to its business customers as financing alternatives for PBXs. 43 Table of Contents The following table sets forth external revenue generated by Solutions for the periods indicated. CHF in millions Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 National and International Traffic 239 297 344 Leased Lines National 147 184 216 Intranet Services 152 173 179 Other Service Business 247 272 299 Solution Business 283 277 291 Other 55 76 96 Total Solutions external revenue 1,123 1,279 1,426 Solutions has increased its focus on large business customers with complex, solution-oriented telecommunication needs. Depending on each customer’s size and the complexity of its communication needs, Solutions markets its services through a key-account management team and through direct and indirect sales channels. Due to general overcapacity in the telecommunications market, Solutions has experienced a general decrease in revenues in most of its customer segments. Solutions continues to focus its resources on meeting customers’ needs for complex telecommunications services to ensure its long-term growth and, where necessary, will complement its portfolio through new developments, partnerships or acquisitions. National and International Traffic Solutions provides national and international fixed-line voice telephony services to business customers. For a description of these voice telephony services, which Swisscom also provides to residential customers, and of developments impacting the provision of fixed-line telephony services, see “— Fixnet — Access” and “ — Fixnet — Retail Traffic”. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, selected information relating to Solutions’ national and international fixed voice telephony traffic generated by business customers. Traffic (in millions of minutes)(1): Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Local and long-distance traffic 1,672 1,779 1,972 Fixed-to-mobile traffic 258 278 303 Total national traffic 1,930 2,057 2,275 International traffic(2) 356 361 373 Total traffic 2,286 2,418 2,648 (1) Includes traffic on courtesy and service lines. (2) Based on minutes of outgoing international traffic as determined for retail customer billing purposes. Does not include international wholesale traffic originating outside Switzerland. For information on tariffs for national and international traffic, see “— Fixnet — Retail Traffic — Tariffs”. In the future, Solutions expects traditional voice traffic to decline due to the introduction of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services by Solutions and its competitors. VoIP makes it possible to place phone calls through data connections using Internet Protocol (IP), making a separate telephone line unnecessary. To use VoIP, consumers require a fairly fast data connection, which can be provided via a DSL line (which still requires access to a phone line), cable or through a broadband wireless connection. VoIP has the potential to offer greater functionality compared to traditional phone lines at minimal cost. When VoIP was first introduced, consumers had to use a computer to place calls, and their counterparties required a computer to receive them. Today, it is possible to make calls via VoIP using phones that look and function like conventional phones. As the quality and convenience of using these IP-based services has improved in recent years, they have become a viable alternative to traditional fixed-line services for many users, a trend Swisscom expects to continue and accelerate in the future. 44 Table of Contents Leased Lines National Solutions is the leading provider of national leased lines in Switzerland. Leased lines are fixed point-to-point connections between separate locations, which may be used by the customer for voice and high volume data or video transmission. Leased lines are used by business customers to assemble their own private networks and by resellers to establish networks in order to offer information services. Swisscom also offers leased line services on a wholesale basis. See “— Fixnet — Other”. Solutions also offers managed leased line services to its national leased line customers. Through active fault management and automatic rerouting in case of network failure, Solutions’ managed leased line services guarantee up to 99.97% end-to-end availability. The number of national leased lines has declined in recent years, as customers increasingly migrate to high capacity services based on Internet Protocol (IP) due to customer applications requiring higher flexibility. Solutions’ leased line subscribers pay an initial installation charge based on the type and capacity of the line and, thereafter, pay a monthly fee based on the type, length and capacity of the leased line. In recent years, leased line tariffs have declined due to regulatory pressures and increased competition from other infrastructure-based operators such as electrical power and cable network operators with their own telecommunication infrastructure and services, whose high bandwidth offerings have become more widely available and have declined in price. Intranet Services Solutions’ Intranet services consist primarily of managed VPN services, based on multiprotocol label switching (MPLS) technology. As of December 31, 2005, Solutions managed approximately 23,000 routers, mainly on behalf of banking and insurance clients, as well as on behalf of large retailers. Other services within the Intranet services portfolio include remote access services, which enable access to a company’s Intranet through all commercially available access technologies and encryption services for customers with strict security requirements. In 2006, Solutions will launch a VoIP service, whereby customers will have access to different services, such as voice, data and the Internet over a single corporate network. Other Service Business Solutions offers customers private networks for data transmission based on a variety of technological platforms, including frame relay and asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) services. In the past couple of years, the increased substitution among large business customers of IP services for frame relay and ATM services has resulted in decreased sales of such services. In 2005, however, Solutions launched an Ethernet service to provide its customers wide-area LAN services with high bandwidths. Solutions’ business Internet service portfolio includes a full range of Internet access services for customers with high bandwidth requirements (up to 155 Mbits/s). Solutions also offers services and applications for business customers and national Internet service providers (ISPs). These services include managed firewall services and spam filtering IP transit services over a dedicated backbone. Solutions also offers customers “business numbers” — toll-free, cost-shared and premium rate numbers for both national and international use, which business customers use to provide their own customers with access to information services. Solutions also offers premium rate services that, among other things, allow for flat rate charging on a per call or product basis. These numbers are mainly used by business customers as a retail sales channels and/or as an additional form of payment. Demand for business numbers has declined over the past few years, primarily as a result of companies using the Internet and informational company websites to distribute information instead of toll-free or other numbers. Solutions offers international leased lines to its business customers with cross-border requirements. Such services were previously offered through Swisscom’s EOSNET Network. Following the transfer of Swisscom Fixnet’s international wholesale business and international network (including the EOSNET Network) to a joint venture formed with Belgacom (BICS), Solutions now offers these services through partnerships. For more information on the sale of leased lines activities, including the EOSNET Network, see “— Network and technology-Fixed Line Networks” and “— Divestments/Discontinued Operations”. 45 Table of Contents Effective September 12, 2005, Swisscom Solutions AG entered into a commercial partnership agreement with UK-based Vanco plc. for a minimum term of ten years, with a view to offering its multinational and international customers services outside its home markets of Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In November 2004, Swisscom agreed to sell its interest in Infonet Services Corporation (“Infonet”) to British Telecommunications plc (“BT”). Infonet provides global voice, data and networking solutions to companies seeking to outsource their worldwide communications needs. In February 2005, Swisscom received USD 170 million (approximately CHF 201 million) for its 17.7% stake. After the sale of its stake in Infonet, Swisscom remains the exclusive distributor of Infonet services in Switzerland through Infonet Switzerland AG, in which Swisscom has a 90% interest, and which is accounted for in the Solutions segment. As a result of the sale, Swisscom may lose certain multinational business customers in Switzerland and related revenue. Solution Business The Solution Business provides customers with customized modular solutions, designing, installing and operating customers’ business communication infrastructure. Together with other Swisscom companies or external partners, Solutions is able to offer complete communication solutions. System Integration — Solutions provides a comprehensive portfolio of professional services, including consulting services, customer interaction management, security solutions and live event support. In addition, Solutions offers product integration services, including the design, provisioning, implementation and support of PBXs, LANs and other data and telecommunication infrastructure. Effective March 2006, Swisscom Solutions AG took over 300 mid- to large-sized customers and 129 employees from Siemens Schweiz AG, extending its know-how in planning, installing, operating and maintaining company-internal voice and data networks. Furthermore, the parties agreed that Siemens will provide Swisscom Solutions with support, including technical support for its technicians and engineers, and current and future PBX-related products. Solutions has also agreed to a commercial collaboration with Siemens Schweiz AG. Customer Service — Solutions offers a full range of operations and maintenance services relating to private branch exchanges (PBXs) and in-house LANs. Solutions operates and maintains the customer’s PBX or LAN remotely and/or via Solutions’ nationwide technical force, or via partners. For inhouse LANs, Solutions introduced a variety of services in 2005 designed to prevent system failures and to ensure that systems are quickly repaired and made operational if a failure does occur. Outsourcing — Solutions’ outsourcing services range from telecommunication outsourcing (i.e., companies outsourcing their voice traffic needs) up to complete ICT outsourcing (i.e., comprehensive planning, building and operations designed to meet customers’ ICT needs). In 2005, Solutions continued to expand its outsourcing activities by winning further major national and international contracts. Solutions believes that its outsourcing business will grow in the future as technologies converge and demand for combined IT and telecommunications solutions increases. 46 Table of Contents Other Through third parties, Solutions offers its business customers rental agreements or other financing models for PBXs. Competition Cablecom — Cablecom, the largest cable network operator in Switzerland, operates its own infrastructure and has invested heavily to upgrade it. This network allows Cablecom to compete with Swisscom in the following areas: traffic, leased lines, intranet services, and PBX related services. Furthermore, Cablecom has entered into a partnership with NextiraOne and redIT, thereby augmenting its product and service portfolio. Cablecom offers interregional connections throughout Switzerland. TDC (Sunrise) — TDC (Sunrise) is one of Solution’s most significant competitors in traffic, leased lines, intranet services, PBX related services and the operation and maintenance of in-house LANs. TDC (Sunrise) is positioning itself as a full-service provider and has strengthened its market position by purchasing Ascom’s PBX business. TDC (Sunrise) offers interregional connections throughout Switzerland. NextiraOne — NextiraOne competes with Swisscom in the following areas: PBX related services, telecommunication infrastructure services, and the operation and maintenance of in-house LANs. NextiraOne’s partnership with Cablecom has strengthened its market presence. Getronics — Getronics is one of Solutions’ primary competitors in telecommunication infrastructure services and the operation and maintenance of in-house LANs. Utilities and Municipalities — Electrical power providers and local municipalities compete with Solution’s leased line business by offering telecommunication services to customers via their own high-capacity fiber networks. Competition in the national leased line market may also increase as a result of the recent adoption of amendments to the Telecommunications Act. See “— Regulation — Unbundling of the Local Loop and Other Access Regulation”. International telecommunication companies — Solutions faces intense competition from Colt, Equant, MCI/Verizon, British Telecom (BT) and Deutsche Telecom in its international business. This has lead to stiff price competition and a decline in market share. Overcapacity in international networks continues to place market prices under high pressure. With regard to outsourcing services, BT and T-Systems (which has a strong position in the local market due to a portfolio of contracts with mid- and large-sized entities) are Solutions’ main competitors. BT competes on the basis of its wide service offering and existing consulting know-how as well as its world-wide outsourcing experience within the telecommunications industry. Consultants — IBM and Accenture compete with Swisscom in the operation and maintenance of in-house LANs, consulting services and security solutions. Other consulting competitors include BearingPoint, Capgemini and EDS. IBM is also a strong competitor with regard to the new international telecommunications offerings by Swisscom Solutions. Local and niche players — Many local IT providers with long-established customer relationships play an important role in the market for telecommunication infrastructure services. With regards to consulting services and security solutions, specialized niche players are also significant competitors. 47 Table of Contents Other Swisscom is also active in a variety of other businesses, including the provision of IT, broadcasting and billing services as well as the provision of high-speed Internet access to business travelers across Europe. The following table sets forth external revenue for the periods indicated. CHF in millions Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Swisscom IT Services 249 207 214 Swisscom Broadcast 150 148 149 Antenna Hungária 26 — — Accarda Group 115 112 52 Swisscom Eurospot 31 9 1 Total Other 571 476 416 Swisscom IT Services Swisscom IT Services offers end-to-end business solutions, primarily in the financial services and telecommunications industries. In addition to business solutions, Swisscom IT Services focuses on systems integration, IT outsourcing and infrastructure services, including desktop services and datacenter services. Swisscom IT Services currently manages 60,000 desktop computers nationwide. Approximately two-thirds of these became part of Swisscom IT Services’ service portfolio over the last three years through outsourcing deals. Swisscom IT Services’ customers are largely the Swisscom group companies and several small to large-sized financial institutions. Swisscom IT Services provides IT outsourcing services to major companies in the telematics, media, airline and health care sectors, and to parts of the government. One of Swisscom IT Services’ main objectives for 2006 is to increase its profile in the telecommunications, financial and health care industries. Swisscom IT Services increased the number of full time employees from 2,100 as of December 31, 2004, to 2,285 as of December 31, 2005. On January 4, 2006, Swisscom IT Services acquired Comit, an IT group specializing in the financial services industry, for CHF 66 million, subject to certain purchase price adjustments. Swisscom IT Services’ financial services unit has been incorporated into the new company. The acquisition strengthens Swisscom IT Services’ know-how in the banking sector and will allow it to offer IT services along the entire value chain. Competition. In the professional IT services market, Swisscom IT Services competes with IBM, Hewlett-Packard, T-Systems, EDS, Accenture, CSC and a number of local players. 48 Table of Contents Swisscom Broadcast Swisscom Broadcast operates a national network for the transmission and broadcast of analog and digital signals for television and radio broadcasting. Such services are provided primarily to the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (Schweizerische Radio- und Fernsehgesellschaft) (“SRG”), the main provider of public television and radio broadcasting in Switzerland. Swisscom Broadcast provides its services to SRG on freely negotiated commercial terms under a long-term contract with SRG that was terminated effective December 31, 2006. In March 2005, Swisscom Broadcast agreed on a new long-term contract with SRG that will become effective at the beginning of 2007 and run at least until the end of 2010. In 2005, Swisscom Broadcast was paid approximately CHF 110 million to broadcast SRG programs. Swisscom Broadcast acquired Tele Rätia AG in December 2004, a company providing terrestrial retail TV services. In mid-2005, Tele Rätia launched a new digital video broadcasting terrestrial (“DVB-T”) program offering, which had been developed jointly with Swisscom Broadcast. The roll-out of this project is expected to be finished by mid-2006. Swisscom Broadcast has started a pilot project with digital video broadcasting handheld (“DVB-H”) technology, offering mobile users TV reception on handheld devices. Swisscom Broadcast also provides services and solutions for the roll-out of the Tetrapol technology, which has been chosen as the standard infrastructure for security networks within Switzerland. On December 18, 2002, the Federal Council presented the Swiss Parliament a draft of a revised radio and television law. After extensive consultations, the amended law was adopted by the Swiss Parliament on March 24, 2006. According to the new law, certain obligations will be imposed on providers of multiplexing devices used to broadcast signals, requiring them to provide other broadcasters with access to these devices so that they can deliver their own broadcasting signals to the public. In addition, operators of transmission and broadcasting networks will have to offer their services on a non-discriminatory basis to all broadcasting companies. The new law is expected to enter into effect during the first quarter of 2007. Accordingly, Swisscom Broadcast does not expect the new law to have any economic effect before this date. Antenna Hungária On October 25, 2005, Swisscom acquired a 75% stake plus 1 share in the Hungarian broadcasting network operator Antenna Hungária for CHF 293 million. Following a mandatory public tender offer in which Swisscom purchased an additional 22.99% and acquired the remaining shares in a squeeze out. Antenna Hungária was delisted from the Budapest Stock Exchange on February 16, 2006. For further information, see Note 5 of the consolidated financial statements. Antenna Hungária also provides both analog and digital satellite program transmission. Antenna Hungária’s business communication services include managed leased-line, LAN, voice-data integration, Internet, VPN, VoIP and VSAT services through the country-wide microwave network (2,638 end points for managed lease lines; 2,403 end points for VSAT). Antenna Hungária also provides field maintenance services to other telecom network operators. Swisscom intends to contribute its knowledge of digital broadcasting to promote the growth of digital television service in Hungary. The Hungarian Fair Competition Bureau (FCB) commenced competition proceedings against Antenna Hungária in February 2005. The FCB is investigating whether the company abused its economic power in the broadcasting and primary program distribution market for the period between January 1, 2003 and June 30, 2005. The FCB’s suspicion of abuse of economic power is based on allegedly unfair broadcasting and program distribution charges. At present, it cannot be established whether or not Antenna Hungária’s broadcasting and program distribution charges are excessive. In 2005, Antenna Hungária established new contracts with the broadcasters at significant discounts over the next seven years. 49 Table of Contents Accarda Group The Accarda Group comprises the business activities of Billag AG and the former Billag Card Services AG. Swisscom founded Accarda AG as a fully-owned subsidiary and, effective July 1, 2005, all activities that had previously been provided by Billag Card Services were transferred to Accarda AG and Billag AG is now controlled by Accarda AG. Accarda AG provides customer loyalty card processing and billing services in the private sector. Some of the billing services include the financing of purchases billed to the customer on a delayed basis when using a loyalty card. Accarda AG is seeking to expand its business and is providing from 2006 onwards debt collection services to Swisscom Group companies. In addition, Accarda acquired Medipa AG, a leading company in Switzerland’s medical billing industry, effective July 1, 2005. Billag AG provides billing services to the public sector as part of an agreement to collect radio and television licensing fees for the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (SRG). The current agreement will expire at the end of 2007, but after a recent bidding process, the Federal Department of Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications (UVEK) announced in April 2006 that it would extend the agreement with Billag AG regarding the collection of radio and TV license fees to include the period from 2008 to 2014. Swisscom Eurospot Swisscom Eurospot is a leading pan-european provider of high-speed Internet access and services to guests of the hospitality industry across Europe (excluding Switzerland, where the market is served by Swisscom Mobile). Swisscom Eurospot operates its network in premium hotels and is focused on offering tailored services to business travelers, enabling them to remain in contact with their companies or business partners in an efficient and flexible way. The company’s infrastructure spans more than 2,200 active properties in 14 countries providing approximately 190,000 hotel rooms with communication services. During 2005, Swisscom Eurospot strengthened its market presence in Western Europe and developed its presence in Eastern European markets. Furthermore, in June 2005 the Hilton Group and Swisscom Eurospot extended their partnership, which reinforced Swisscom Eurospot’s leadership in the high-end European hospitality industry. In order to strengthen its position in the European conference services market, Swisscom Eurospot will acquire the US-based Core Communications Corporation, a company specialized in data communications and Internet solutions for the hospitality industry. The deal is expected to close in May 2006. Core Communications supports conference events in conference centers and business hotels throughout North America and is recognized as an innovative leader in technology services for the meetings and events industry. The acquisition is subject to the approval of the competition authorities of Switzerland. 50 Table of Contents Corporate The Corporate segment encompasses Swisscom’s headquarter functions, group-company shared services, the real-estate company Swisscom Immobilien AG (“SIMAG”) and its social plan programs (PersPec and Worklink). For a description of PersPec and Worklink, see “Item 6: Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Employees — Workforce Reduction and Productivity Improvement”. SIMAG SIMAG manages Swisscom’s portfolio of real estate properties, some of which it leases to other group companies and, to a limited extent, to third parties. In addition, it provides facility management services, such as energy purchasing, and security and cleaning, for third parties as well as for internal purposes. Furthermore, SIMAG expanded its service portfolio with fleet and business travel management for the Swisscom Group, which it took over from headquarters in 2005. For more information on Swisscom’s real estate, see “— Property, Plant and Equipment”. Other Participations Cinetrade On April 8, 2005 Swisscom acquired a 49 % stake in CT Cinetrade AG, a Swiss media company whose activities include a movie theater chain, a pay-TV channel, video and DVD film rights and which has extensive experience managing media content and related rights. Cinetrade’s current license (“Veranstalterkonzession”) for the pay TV channel will expire on April 30, 2006, but is expected to be renewed by the relevant authorities. Although the Competition Commission has approved Swisscom’s participation in CT Cinetrade AG from a market point of view, certain issues regarding the Swiss constitutional law of media independence and the Swiss Confederation’s majority interest in Swisscom remain to be decided by regulatory authorities. In 2005, Swisscom generated revenues of CHF 1.5 million from transactions with Cinetrade and paid an amount of CHF 1.3 million for services purchased from Cinetrade. Belgacom International Carrier Services Effective July 1, 2005, Swisscom and Belgacom, the leading telecommunications company in Belgium, formed a new joint venture company, named Belgacom International Carrier Services (BICS), combining their international wholesale activities. As part of the transaction (the Belgacom transaction), Swisscom received a 28% interest in the joint venture in exchange for its international wholesale business and international network, valued at CHF 36 million. In 2005, after founding the joint venture on July 1, 2005, Swisscom generated revenue with BICS in the amount of CHF 83 million and paid CHF 60 million for services purchased from BICS. Revenues and expenses derived from transactions with BICS relate primarily to incoming and outgoing international voice traffic. 51 Table of Contents Divestments/Discontinued Operations debitel As of December 31, 2003, Swisscom owned 93% of debitel AG, which it had acquired in a series of transactions in 1999 and 2001. debitel is a network-independent mobile communications service provider in Europe. On June 8, 2004, Swisscom sold its 95% stake in debitel, including 2% it had acquired from ElectronicPartner in connection with this transaction, in a leveraged buyout by funds advised by the private equity firm Permira (Permira Funds), for a purchase price of EUR 640 million (equity value). The purchase price paid in cash amounted to EUR 430 million. The remainder was financed by Swisscom through the conversion of existing intercompany loans in the amount of EUR 210 million into two vendor loan notes of EUR 105 million each, assumed by debitel Konzernfinanzierungs GmbH, an indirect 100% owned subsidiary of the entity acquired by Permira Funds in the transaction. Consideration from the sale, including the vendor loan notes, was recorded at fair value upon completion of the transaction. A portion of the purchase price was also financed on a senior secured basis by a consortium of banks, and repayment of Swisscom’s vendor loan notes was subordinated to the full repayment of the senior facilities provided by these banks. The vendor loan notes were repaid in full in the first six months of 2005 by means of a payment of CHF 351 million, representing the nominal value of the loan and the contractually agreed interest. The difference of CHF 59 million between the estimated recoverable value of the loan and the payment received was recorded as income from discontinued operations. In connection with the transaction, Swisscom agreed to indemnify the purchaser for any breach of the representations and warranties made by it in the purchase agreement and for certain liabilities, including tax liabilities, of debitel. A tax audit is currently being conducted in Germany which may lead to higher taxes payable. Based on current estimates, the maximum amount that could become due relating to the tax indemnity was approximately EUR 70 million as of December 31, 2005. A provision of CHF 50 million was recorded for this potential indemnification at the end of 2005. As a result of the sale, debitel is treated in the consolidated financial statements as a discontinued operation. Prior years have been restated to facilitate comparison. For further information, see Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements. 52 Table of Contents Networks and Technology Overview Swisscom owns and operates a number of fixed and mobile telecommunications networks to support its diverse range of products and services. Swisscom’s fixed-line network and almost all of its data networks are managed by Fixnet. Swisscom’s mobile networks are the direct responsibility of Mobile. For more information on Swisscom’s technical equipment relating to its networks, see “ — Property, Plant and Equipment”. Reduction of network complexity and cost optimization have been central aspects of Swisscom’s network strategy in the past. This strategy was accompanied by a rigorous investment policy focusing Swisscom’s resources on developing and enhancing strategic growth platforms for broadband and IP technologies. In order to implement Swisscom’s triple play strategy, technical preparation and planning activities were initiated in 2004. Swisscom began to introduce the necessary functionality to its fixed network in 2005 and significantly upgraded capacity. Swisscom’s capital expenditures related to its fixed network totaled CHF 353 million in 2005. The triple play program will continue to represent the focal point of capital expenditures in the years to come. With respect to its mobile network, Swisscom continues to make significant investments in infrastructure in order to maintain high service quality, enable new services, increase broadband coverage and increase capacity. In 2005, Swisscom’s capital expenditures related to its mobile network totaled CHF 238 million. Fixed-Line Networks Swisscom operates a highly sophisticated PSTN/ISDN network, principally for the provision of public voice telephony, and several data networks used for the provision of packet switched, frame relay and asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) data services and, to an increasing extent, IP and Ethernet communication. These networks are supported by Swisscom’s access networks and its extensive national transmission infrastructure. Effective July, 2005, Swisscom transferred its international network assets to a joint venture with Belgacom, the leading telecommunications company in Belgium. In keeping with the general trend toward IP-based networks and services, Swisscom continues to upgrade and optimize its broadband and IP capabilities. With respect to voice services, customers are beginning to shift towards Voice over IP, though the timing of widespread adoption of the technology is less clear. Swisscom is monitoring industry trends very closely and continues to co-operate closely with major equipment suppliers in Europe and the U.S., in particular with respect to its triple play strategy. Access Networks. Swisscom’s access network is divided into 923 individual access networks. The local loops which connect customers to Swisscom’s local exchanges use a variety of technologies, including radio and copper and fiber optic cables. The triple play program will lead to a significant increase of fiber optic cable in the access network. In 2000, Swisscom implemented a broadband connectivity service which connects end-customers to Swisscom’s IP backbone via ADSL technology in the local loop and allows Internet service providers to offer faster IP-based services to these same end-users. ADSL technologies operate, like ISDN, over existing copper lines, but offer higher speed and volume for data transmissions. The service is now available to more than 98% of the population of Switzerland. Swisscom’s current service offering provides speeds of up to 6 Mbit/s (downstream) and Swisscom currently has the ability to offer ADSL bandwidth of up to 4 Mbit/s (downstream) to approximately 80% of Swiss households. However, in the mid- to long-term this bandwidth capacity will not be sufficient for rich multimedia services, in particular for simultaneous transmission of several TV channels. Swisscom therefore started the rollout of the next generation of DSL technology known as very high bit-rate digital subscriber line (VDSL) that will allow downstream speeds well above 10 Mbit/s. VDSL requires closer proximity of active network elements to customer locations and hence more fiber in the access network. VDSL-based services will be launched in 2006, with VDSL coverage expected to reach approximately 45% of Swiss households by mid-2006. In addition, Swisscom launched its symmetric digital subscriber line (SDSL) service in August 2005. SDSL technology permits data to be sent (upstream) at the same rate that it is received (downstream), thereby 53 Table of Contents eliminating one of the major drawbacks to ADSL technology. SDSL holds the potential to greatly increase business communication efficiency. Transmission Infrastructure. Swisscom’s domestic interexchange transmission system is 100% digital and, as of December 31, 2005, consisted of approximately 32,500 kilometers of fiber optic cable representing 930,000 kilometers of individual optical fibers. Capable of operating at speeds of up to 10 Gbit/s, fiber optic cable vastly exceeds the capacity of traditional copper cable or radio links. All of Swisscom’s exchanges have been connected with fiber optics. Swisscom’s core network contains a synchronous digital hierarchy (SDH) transmission system and its regional network has SDH self-healing rings in selected areas. SDH is a transmission standard for networks that use fiber optics, which allows for a simpler and more easily managed network with enhanced reliability. Swisscom also continues to use and maintain its plesiochronous digital hierarchy (PDH) infrastructure, which, in accordance with its investment policy, is not being proactively replaced but phased out whenever economically viable. In addition to its “classic” SDH networks, in 2005 Swisscom continued to build out regional Ethernet rings that are used to deliver Ethernet service to business customers as well as to connect the next generation of DSL technology, in particular VDSL. This constitutes an important step towards a simple but powerful “all-IP” network. Effective July 1, 2005, Swisscom and Belgacom, the leading telecommunications company in Belgium, formed a new joint venture company, named Belgacom International Carrier Services (BICS), combining their international wholesale activities. As part of the transaction, Swisscom received a 28% interest in the joint venture in exchange for its international wholesale business and international network, valued at CHF 36 million. For more information on this transaction, see “– Fixnet – Wholesale Traffic”. PSTN/ISDN Network. Swisscom’s domestic network connects virtually all Swiss homes and the vast majority of Swiss businesses, with traffic routed, as of December 31, 2005, through 95 local exchanges and 30 transit exchanges. These switches are connected by Swisscom’s transmission infrastructure. Swisscom’s ISDN service, which is fully integrated with the PSTN, is based on the ETSI (European Telecommunication Standards Institute) standard. Swisscom is capable of providing ISDN service to 100% of its customers. The Swisscom PSTN/ISDN network offers a high level of quality and security. With four-fold redundancy built into the core network on the transmission layer and two-fold redundancy on the switching layer, Swisscom is able to ensure a very high level of availability. On top of its network switches, Swisscom operates an intelligent network platform, which supports a range of value-added services by associating advanced computer technologies with traditional switching techniques. Data and IP Networks. Swisscom owns leased line networks used for managed and unmanaged services and a number of switched data networks used for packet switched (X.25), frame relay and ATM data transmission services. These platforms still serve customers, although they are earmarked to be phased out in the years to come. By contrast, Swisscom accelerated the expansion of its IP platform that is used for all of Swisscom’s broadband services and which will form the backbone of its triple play strategy. In 2005, Swisscom’s IP capacity was significantly increased. The platforms used for the provision of leased lines and managed bandwidth services include a dedicated multiplexing platform which allows transmission speeds ranging from below 64 kbit/s up to 2 Mbit/s. Swisscom’s PDH platform supports unmanaged leased lines from 2 Mbit/s up to 34 Mbit/s, whereas its SDH platform supports managed and unmanaged services starting at 2 Mbit/s and ranging up to 155 Mbit/s and in some cases even up to 622 Mbit/s. 54 Table of Contents Mobile Telecommunications Network Swisscom currently operates one national mobile telephony network, capable of providing service to over 99% of the populated areas in Switzerland. Swisscom’s current mobile network is a digital mobile dual band network, based on the international GSM standard that operates at both 900 MHz and 1800 MHz. Swisscom currently operates 13.6 MHz in the 900 MHz band and 12.4 MHz in the 1800 MHz band. In addition, Swisscom operates a third generation, high bandwidth UMTS mobile radio system using 20 MHz in the 2.1 GHz band. The state of the art network architecture allows Swisscom to extend its network in a very flexible, market driven and cost optimized way. Swisscom’s mobile network consists of base transceiver stations for GSM and UMTS, base station controllers, mobile switching centers and radio network controllers. The base transceiver stations transmit calls to and from mobile handsets. The base transceiver stations used for UMTS are called Node B. The base station controllers relay calls between the base transceiver stations and mobile switching centers, which in turn are connected to the PSTN and ISDN network. The base station controllers for UMTS are referred to as radio network controllers. The following table shows data relating to Swisscom’s mobile network as of the dates indicated. As of December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Base Transceiver Stations 5,551 5,481 5,247 Node B 1,609 1,308 695 Base Station Controllers 43 43 43 Mobile Switching Centers 31 32 31 Radio Network Controller 17 16 9 The design of the core network allows for the efficient integration of new technologies such as GPRS, EDGE and UMTS. GPRS. In 2001, Swisscom completed implementation of general packet radio service (GPRS) technology in the network. GPRS is a standard for data transfer on GSM mobile phone networks and utilizes “packet switching” technology. This means that data is divided up into small packets and sent in a similar way to data transmission on computer networks or when surfing on the Internet. With this technology, the user is always online and can send and receive data at any time. In February 2002, Swisscom launched its GPRS service with data capacities of up to 50 kbit/s. EDGE. In order to further improve its GPRS services, Swisscom implemented Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE) technology in all active GSM locations in early 2005. EDGE is a further development of the GPRS standard that allows considerably higher transmission speeds of between 150 kbit/s and 200 kbit/s. UMTS. In 2000, Swisscom was awarded one of four universal mobile telecommunication system (UMTS) licenses auctioned in Switzerland, for which it paid CHF 50 million. The license took effect on January 1, 2002 and will be valid for 15 years. Swisscom received one Frequency Division Duplex Channel and one Time Division Duplex Channel in the allocated Frequency Band of 2.1 GHz. UMTS is a third generation mobile radio system that creates additional mobile radio capacity and enables broadband media applications while also providing high speed Internet access. Swisscom launched its UMTS service in 2004. As of December 2005, Swisscom had installed over 1,600 UMTS base transceiver stations (Node B), ensuring population coverage of approximately 90%. Swisscom has fulfilled all of the requirements set forth in the terms of the UMTS license. Swisscom is investing in its mobile network to upgrade its existing network, and to further extend the coverage of UMTS. Swisscom expects to make significant additional investments over the next several years in connection with the continued build-out of its UMTS network. To provided customers with enhanced services, Swisscom will enable high-speed downlink packet access (HSDPA) in selected dense urban areas in the course of 2006. HSDPA is a packet-based data service with theoretical downlink data transmission of up to 8-10 Mbps over a 5MHz bandwidth. PWLAN. Swisscom offers a public wireless LAN (PWLAN) service in Switzerland through Swisscom Mobile and across Europe through Swisscom Eurospot. For more information, see “ — Mobile” and “ — Other — 55 Table of Contents Swisscom Eurospot”. PWLAN provides complementary wireless broadband Internet access through gateways connected to a fixed-line network. Swisscom intends to further expand its PWLAN network in 2006. Broadcasting Networks Swisscom Broadcast operates a terrestrial broadcasting network, including a wireless backbone. The network components are installed throughout Switzerland on over 500 towers, which are owned by Swisscom Broadcast. Eleven sites are located outside Switzerland in the border regions of neighboring countries. Swisscom Broadcast’s broadcasting network serves as a feeder network and as a distribution network by gathering signals from their sources (e.g., radio and TV studios) and feeding them to radio and television transmitters, which then distribute the programs to individual households. Swisscom Broadcast’s feeder network for gathering and transmitting signals uses both microwave and fiber-optic ATM networks ensuring coverage on a redundant basis. The microwave part of the feeder network is also used to feed TV programs from neighboring countries to local cable network operators. Swisscom Broadcast operates approximately 800 FM radio transmitters, over 1,000 analog TV transmitters and approximately 20 digital audio broadcasting transmitters. In addition, Swisscom Broadcast operates approximately 60% of the transmitters used by private broadcasters in Switzerland. Antenna Hungária operates a terrestrial broadcasting network with more than 200 towers throughout Hungary. Antenna Hungária operates approximately 118 FM radio transmitters and 44 analog TV transmitters, and 212 relay stations. Antenna Hungária’s broadcasting network serves as a feeder network and as a distribution network by gathering signals from their sources (e.g., radio and TV studios) and feeding them to radio and television transmitters. The feeder network for gathering and transmitting signals uses both microwave and fiber-optic networks. The telecommunications network consists of a ring-protected national microwave SDH backbone connecting transmitter stations nationwide, and a fiber optical network in Budapest. The access network is built by point-to-point and point-to-multipoint microwave links, VSAT and leased wireline connections from other operators. Antenna Hungária’s nationwide TV networks provide 86% and 96% of the population with access to commercial and public TV content, respectively. Antenna Hungária’s nationwide commercial and public radio network covers between 60% and 100% of the population. 56 Table of Contents Property, Plant and Equipment Real Estate Property As of December 31, 2005, Swisscom has real estate property with an aggregate net book value of CHF 839 million. Of this amount, CHF 451 million relates to property which Swisscom uses under the leaseback contracts described below and in Note 22 of the consolidated financial statements. Such property was not subject to any mortgages or other security interests as of December 31, 2005. Substantially all of Swisscom’s properties are used for telecommunications installations, research centers, service outlets and offices. Swisscom’s real estate portfolio is managed by real estate professionals with a view to realizing value from the portfolio. Swisscom previously sold a significant portion of its real estate portfolio and has entered into leaseback contracts for some of the buildings sold, a number of which have been qualified as finance leases. The gain from the sale of these buildings, CHF 239 million in 2001, will be recognized in income over the duration of these leasing contracts. Due to a change in IAS 17 as of January 1, 2005, the land and building elements of a lease of land and buildings are considered separately for the purposes of lease classification and the land element is no longer classified as a finance lease. This resulted in a reduction of real estate property and corresponding leasing liabilities on Swisscom’s balance sheet. For further information on the change in IAS 17, see Notes 2.4 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements. In 2005, Swisscom implemented the IAS 16 component approach to depreciating assets. Over the last few years, Swisscom implemented a strategy to steadily reduce its real estate management costs. This strategy included the outsourcing of certain real estate management functions, especially cleaning and maintenance. Starting in 2004, Swisscom introduced a new program with the aim of optimizing workplace infrastructure by moving employees to main buildings and by reducing the office space allocated per employee. These measures allowed Swisscom to terminate various lease-back contracts as of March 31, 2006, and will result in reduced rental and facility management costs. Technical Equipment As of December 31, 2005, Swisscom carried assets on its balance sheet which primarily related to its network infrastructure in the amount of CHF 3,957 million. Of this amount, CHF 60 million relates to technical equipment for which Swisscom has entered into sale and leaseback contracts. For more information, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements. 57 Table of Contents Research and Development Swisscom’s central research and development expenses (not including software development costs) amounted to CHF 39 million in 2005 and CHF 39 million in 2004. Swisscom believes that continued research and development activities enhance its competitiveness. Swisscom currently focuses its research and development efforts on three main areas: (1) extending its range of communication services by exploiting the increasing convergence of fixed-line telecommunication, mobile telecommunication, information and entertainment technologies; (2) enhancing the quality of service and customer care; and (3) exploring network technologies to enable new services as well as to achieve cost efficiencies. Swisscom’s research and development activities include programs to explore and develop new opportunities in: (1) advanced communication and information services that seamlessly integrate a wide range of networks, applications and devices using state-of-the-art technologies such as Voice over IP, web technologies, voice-controlled interactions and intelligent network technologies, (2) current software technology trends and their impact on the efficiency of creating new services and on the quality of service, as well as on related areas such as digital identity management for transaction and authentication services, and on management of the security of communication networks, computer systems, and communication devices, (3) multimedia information and entertainment services enhanced by broadband access through various access networks and terminals, focusing in particular on mobile entertainment and quadruple play (voice, Internet, and TV over the same network, fixed and mobile), (4) emerging network technologies enabling wired and wireless, fixed and mobile broadband services including home-networking applications, with special emphasis on seamless access across different networks, and (5) electromagnetic compatibility and perceived health issues arising from existing and emerging service delivery technologies. Swisscom responds quickly to promising new technologies with high business potential by developing them as so-called “Innovation Ventures.” Swisscom explores strategies and technologies to increase customer satisfaction and customers’ use of new services. In particular, Swisscom takes into account social and socio-economic trends, diffusion and adoption of telecommunication services, management of customer expectations and new marketing approaches. Moreover, Swisscom applies usability testing, which means that Swisscom observes potential users interacting with prototype applications and services with a view to improving interface and dialog design. Swisscom monitors, on a continuous basis, the consortia that develop technologies and applications that serve as industry-wide standards, such as the global system for mobile communications (GSM) association, the third generation partnership project (3GPP) consortium (UMTS services and beyond), the WiFi and WiMax fora (wireless access technologies), the moving picture experts group (MPEG, making video signals suitable for transmission at lower bandwidths), the liberty alliance (virtual identity management and authentication services), and the digital living network alliance (DLNA, home-networking applications). In addition, Swisscom participates in a number of international organizations, e.g. the home gateway initiative (HGI), the WiMesh alliance and the Wireless World Research Forum (WWRF). Swisscom pursues a number of research initiatives with industrial partners, universities, institutes and other research labs. Under these initiatives, Swisscom and its partners cooperate in carrying out joint projects and by sharing research and development results. Swisscom has a variety of patents and licenses to protect its investments. No single patent or license is material to its business. 58 Table of Contents Regulation Overview The regulatory framework governing telecommunications services in Switzerland was established with the entry into effect on January 1, 1998 of the Telecommunications Act. The Telecommunications Act and the implementing ordinances thereunder opened domestic and international public fixed-line telephony in Switzerland to competition and provided for the granting of national mobile telecommunications licenses to Swisscom and to new competitors. Switzerland is not a member state of the EU and therefore is not subject to EU legislation relating to telecommunications. However, EU directives and implementing legislation in various EU countries have served as points of reference for the development of the Swiss regulatory regime. In March 2003, the Federal Council adopted significant amendments to the Telecommunications Ordinance (Verordnung über Fernmeldedienste), which is the principal ordinance on telecommunications services. However, based on a decision issued by the Federal Court in November 2004, these amendments currently are not applicable on the grounds that the Telecommunications Act, as currently in effect, does not provide a sufficient legal basis for such amendments. In March 2006, the Swiss Parliament adopted amendments to the Telecommunications Act which are not expected to enter into force prior to January 1, 2007. These amendments are intended to bring the Swiss telecommunications regulatory regime in line with regulatory developments in the EU and reflect some of the amendments to the Telecommunications Ordinance. Swisscom will be required to offer, among other things, unbundled access to its local loop in the form of full access on a cost-oriented basis as well as access rebilling. In the form passed by the Swiss Parliament, unbundling of the local loop will require market-dominant providers to also offer bitstream access to other providers on demand for four years on a cost-oriented basis. Market-dominant providers will have to make bitstream access available at the main distributor frame and over their copper net in the local loop. Competitors will not be entitled to use Swisscom’s investments in fiber optic lines. The amendments are expected to increase competition when they become effective. In February 2006, the Federal Council published a proposal for the new Universal Service obligation, which would apply beginning in January 2008 when the existing Universal Service license held by Swisscom will expire. The proposal was prepared by the Swiss Ministry for Environment, Traffic, Energy and Communication (UVEK) and the Federal Office for Communications (“OfCom”). As proposed, the new Universal Service obligation would require the provision of broadband services, but omit directory information and call-forwarding services. Interested parties have until May 31, 2006 to respond to the proposal. The Telecommunications Act is intended to ensure that (1) reliable universal service is provided at affordable prices to the entire population of Switzerland; (2) telecommunications traffic is free from interference and respects personal and intellectual property rights; and (3) effective competition in the provision of telecommunications services is allowed to develop. Important features of the current regulatory framework include: • Open Competition Subject to Licensing and Notification Requirements. A basic principle of the Telecommunications Act is to permit open competition in telecommunications services, subject to licensing and notification requirements. With limited exceptions, anyone who provides telecommunication services and independently operates a significant portion of the telecommunications installations used to provide transmission and anyone who wishes to make use of radiocommunication frequencies must obtain a license from the regulatory authority. Anyone meeting the conditions for a license application is entitled to receive a license, subject to frequency availability in the case of a license to use radiocommunication frequencies. Anyone who provides telecommunications services without being required to obtain a license must notify the regulatory authority. At the end of 2005, more than 400 operators had been licensed or registered under this requirement. • Swisscom to Provide Universal Service until December 31, 2007. As a transition measure under the Telecommunications Act, Swisscom was required to provide Universal Service throughout Switzerland until December 31, 2002. In June 2002, ComCom renewed Swisscom’s Universal Service license for another five year term. ComCom will open the tender for the new Universal Service licence in fall 2006. The new license will apply after the expiration of Swisscom’s current Universal Service license in December 2007. 59 Table of Contents • Price Ceilings on Universal Service. According to the Telecommunications Ordinance and under the terms of its Universal Service license, Swisscom may not increase the prices charged for certain specified Universal Services above the price ceiling for each such service set forth in the regulatory ordinance. With effect from January 1, 2003, ISDN has been included in Universal Service and the provision of ISDN access is subject to a price ceiling. The price ceilings limit Swisscom’s ability to rebalance tariffs by increasing prices for services such as basic access or local telephone calls, although the ordinance does not restrict Swisscom from offering selective discounts in connection with tailored service packages or to particular customer segments. The proposal published by the Federal Council in February 2006 would include broadband service in the Universal Service obligation, and include a price ceiling to ensure that people without access to competing services would not have to pay too high a price. The proposal also includes a suggested price ceiling for calls within Switzerland of CHF 0.075, which would be lower than Swisscom Fixnet’s current peak rates for domestic fixed-fixed calls. • A Market-Dominant Service Provider Must Allow Interconnection to its Network. A tele-communications service provider that is dominant in a particular market must allow interconnection to its installations and services by other service providers on a non-discriminatory basis, and in particular may not put other service providers in a worse position than its internal departments or affiliates. The Telecommunications Act and ordinances require a market-dominant service provider to publish a standard offer of interconnection services, and contemplates that the market-dominant provider and those providers seeking interconnection will reach negotiated interconnection agreements. Otherwise, the regulatory authority is empowered to determine interconnection conditions. • Interconnection Prices. In any market where an operator is deemed to be dominant, it must set its prices for the relevant interconnection service in a transparent and cost-oriented manner. Since January 1, 2000, such prices have had to be based on the long-run incremental cost of providing the interconnection service, which may include an appropriate return on capital employed. • Carrier Selection. In order to promote competition in national and international telephony services, public fixed-line telephony service providers are required to provide their users with the ability to select their desired national and international service providers on both a call-by-call basis (by dialing a five-digit prefix number), known as “easy access”, and a pre-selection basis for all calls (subject to call-by-call override), known as “equal access”. Mobile telephony service providers are currently required to provide their users with the ability to select their desired international service provider on an easy access basis only. Public telephony service providers offering Voice-over-IP are required to provide their customers with the ability to select their desired national and international service providers on a call-by-call basis. • Number Portability. Under “number portability”, public fixed-line telephony service providers, mobile telephony service providers and providers of certain services such as toll-free numbers must allow customers who switch to another service provider within the same category of service to retain the same telephone number. The cost of implementing number portability is borne by each service provider. The original service provider may charge a fee to the new service provider to cover the direct administrative costs of connection for a particular customer change. Important features of the amendments to the Telecommunications Act recently passed by the Swiss Parliament (but not yet in force) include: • Unbundling of the Local Loop and Other Access Regulation. Market-dominant service providers will be required to offer full access to the unbundled local loop (but only with respect to copper lines), bitstream access for a limited period of four years, access to ducts, access to leased lines and access rebilling on a cost-oriented basis. • Elimination of Licensing Requirement to Reduce Barriers to Entry. The existing requirement that telecommunications service providers obtain a license to provide most services will be eliminated. The existing Telecommunications Act sets forth an overall regulatory framework and provides for the promulgation of ordinances establishing more detailed rules. The Federal Council has issued a number of ordinances, the most important of which is the Telecommunications Ordinance (Verordnung über Fernmeldedienste), which covers licensing conditions and procedures, universal service requirements (including price ceilings), usage of public lands, interconnection, telecommunications confidentiality and privacy requirements, services in extraordinary circumstances such as civil defense and other matters. The Federal 60 Table of Contents Council has also issued the Frequency Management and Radio Licenses Ordinance (Verordnung über Frequenzmanagement und Funkkonzessionen), as well as ordinances concerning signal protocols and numbering systems, telecommunications installations and fees. ComCom has issued an ordinance under the Telecommunications Act specifying requirements for number portability and carrier selection. OfCom and the Department of Environment Transport, Energy and Communication (Eidgenössisches Departement für Umwelt, Verkehr Energie und Kommunikation) (“UVEK”) have also issued ordinances under the Act. Many important matters of regulatory policy were not resolved by the Telecommunications Act, having been left to the legislative bodies and regulatory agencies responsible for the promulgation of such ordinances. As has occurred in other countries, legal challenges to application of the Telecommunications Act and the interpretation of the ordinances promulgated thereunder have arisen and may continue to arise. While amendments to the Telecommunications Act have to be approved by the Parliament and therefore take considerable time, ordinances can be amended or revised quite quickly. Regulatory Authorities Under the Telecommunications Act, responsibility for regulation of the telecommunications sector and the promotion of fair and open competition has been allocated among several regulatory bodies. The two principal regulatory bodies under the Telecommunications Act are the Federal Office for Communication (Bundesamt für Kommunikation, BAKOM) (“OfCom”) and the Federal Communications Commission (Eidgenössische Kommunikationskommission) (“ComCom”). OfCom is responsible for day-to-day oversight of the telecommunications sector and answers to UVEK and the Federal Council, as well as to ComCom. ComCom is an independent regulatory agency which is vested with decision-making authority in the telecommunications sector. The Federal Council has also delegated certain limited powers to UVEK. OfCom was created by the Swiss Telecommunications Act of 1992, which separated the principal regulatory functions of Swiss Telecom PTT from its commercial operations and transferred those regulatory functions to OfCom, whose senior officers are appointed by the Federal Council. Under the Telecommunications Act, all residual regulatory functions of Swiss Telecom PTT were transferred to OfCom. OfCom’s duties include supervising compliance by license holders with the Telecommunications Act and the ordinances thereunder, as well as with the terms and conditions of their respective licenses, proposing interconnection terms to ComCom for approval in cases where the parties fail to agree on interconnection terms, managing the radiocommunication frequency spectrum, managing signal protocols and numbering systems, and issuing certain technical and administrative regulations. OfCom’s responsibilities also include proposing the text of any amendments to the ordinances for approval by the Federal Council, UVEK or ComCom, as the case may be. Decisions made by OfCom may be appealed before an Appeals Board (Rekurskommission). OfCom also represents Switzerland in specific international bodies. In order to separate the role of the Confederation as shareholder from its role as regulator, the Telecommunications Act created ComCom as a fully independent regulatory agency, and provided that ComCom would have responsibility for all matters affecting the development of competition in the telecommunications market. ComCom acts as the exclusive licensing authority under the Telecommunications Act, rules on the terms of interconnection in cases where the parties are unable to reach agreement, has the power to obligate a license holder to provide Universal Service if the request for tenders fails to result in adequate Universal Service coverage, and approves the national radiocommunications frequency allocation plan and national numbering plans. The Telecommunications Act allows ComCom to delegate responsibility for certain tasks to OfCom. ComCom has delegated responsibility for granting all licenses to be granted without bidding procedures to OfCom. OfCom must take direction from ComCom, which cannot be overruled by UVEK or the Federal Council in respect of any matter falling within the sphere of its regulatory authority. The members of ComCom, who must be independent specialists, are appointed by the Federal Council to four-year terms. ComCom members may not be removed once appointed, but the Federal Council has the right to not renew the appointment of a member upon the expiration of his term. Decisions of ComCom may be appealed to the Swiss Federal Supreme Court. UVEK retains certain limited roles under the Telecommunications Act. In the Telecommunications Ordinance, the Federal Council has delegated to UVEK the power to regulate the provision of Universal Service in remote areas. In addition, UVEK has the right to order the expropriation of private property for the establishment of telecommunications installations if in the public interest. UVEK also fixes the amount of administrative charges necessary to cover the expenses of the regulatory authorities. 61 Table of Contents Licensing and Notification Requirements The Telecommunications Act requires that anyone who provides telecommunication services and independently operates a significant portion of the telecommunications installations used to provide transmission must obtain a license. In addition, licenses are required for users of the radiocommunication frequency spectrum and for an operator with Universal Service obligations. Anyone who is a provider of telecommunications services in any other way must notify OfCom, but is not required to obtain a license. Under the amendments to the Telecommunications Act recently passed by the Swiss Parliament, licenses will only be required for service providers with a Universal Service obligation and for users of radio frequencies. Under the existing Telecommunications Act, telecommunications services are subject to such licensing and notification requirements if they involve the electrical, magnetic, optical or electromagnetic transmission of information for third parties over lines or radio waves. The Telecommunications Ordinance excludes service providers from such licensing and notification requirements who transmit information solely (1) within a corporate network, (2) within a building or (3) on a single property or on two adjoining or separated properties. In addition, a pure reseller or broker of telecommunications services is not considered a “provider of telecommunications services” under the Telecommunications Act and is therefore not required to satisfy the licensing or notification requirements. A provider of international telecommunications services whose services are provided through a connection in Switzerland with another carrier is not required to satisfy the licensing or notification requirement if the carrier through which it is connected meets such requirement. In general, anyone meeting the conditions for a license application, subject to the availability of frequencies in the case of a license to use radiocommunication frequencies, is entitled to receive a license. Conditions include the requirement that the applicant have the necessary technical capabilities, and that the applicant provide assurances that it will comply with the Telecommunications Act, the ordinances thereunder and the terms of the license, respect Swiss labor law and maintain working conditions customary for the industry. ComCom may also impose other conditions in particular situations. An applicant incorporated in a foreign country may be denied a license if its home country law does not provide reciprocal treatment. Licenses are granted for specified periods determined by ComCom by reference to normal market and industry standards for the recovery of investments. Licenses for the use of radiocommunication frequencies are subject to availability, taking into account the national frequency allocation plan, and must not eliminate or constitute a serious obstacle to effective competition unless an exception can be justified on grounds of economic efficiency. In questions relating to effective competition, ComCom may consult with the Competition Commission. Radiocommunication frequency licenses are normally granted on the basis of an open request for tenders if there are not enough frequencies to meet all applicants’ present and future needs. As discussed below under “Mobile Telecommunications”, in 1998, ComCom adopted a frequency allocation plan, under which there were three national mobile telephony licenses, consisting of the mobile telephony license automatically granted to Swisscom pursuant to the Telecommunications Act and two licenses awarded through a competitive process based on designated criteria. In 2003, this frequency allocation plan was revised to cover two additional mobile telephony licenses, which were awarded to In&Phone and Tele2 in December 2003. Under the Telecommunications Act, the regulatory authorities require the payment of administrative charges to cover their expenses. For 2005, Swisscom was required to pay charges of CHF 7 million, which includes license and administrative fees and fees for the use of radiocommunication frequencies and numbering/naming/addressing elements. Under the amendments to the Telecommunications Act which were recently adopted by the Swiss Parliament, ComCom will be entitled to levy certain additional charges. Under the Telecommunications Act, a failure on the part of a licensee to abide by the terms of applicable law, including the Telecommunications Act, the ordinances thereunder and the terms of the license, may be sanctioned by ComCom. Such sanctions may include the suspension, revocation or withdrawal of the license. In addition, to the extent that a provider of telecommunications services fails to comply with the terms of its license or with a decision having force of law, such service provider may be required to pay a monetary penalty equal to up to three times the amount of any gain resulting from such failure to comply. In the event such gain cannot be determined or estimated, the service provider may be required to pay up to 10% of the amount of its revenue in the prior year in Switzerland. 62 Table of Contents Universal Service One of the principal objectives of the Telecommunications Act is to ensure that affordable Universal Service is provided to all sections of the Swiss population. Under the Telecommunications Act transition provisions, Swisscom was required to provide Universal Service throughout Switzerland until December 31, 2002. In June 2002, ComCom renewed Swisscom’s Universal License for another five year term. In its bid for the new license, Swisscom renounced the right to receive contributions from other telecommunication service providers for providing Universal Service. However, Swisscom stipulated that its bid was based on the regulations then in effect and that a reevaluation would be required if the regulations were changed, and in particular if Swisscom were required to offer unbundled access to its local loop. Competitors of Swisscom are free to offer some or all of the services included in Universal Service. The Telecommunications Ordinance, as amended in October 2001, defines “Universal Service” as comprising the following services: • basic access, consisting of a network connection that enables users to make national and international telephone calls in real-time as well as telefax and data connections with data transmission rates appropriate for Internet access, and entry in the public telephone subscriber directory; • additional services, consisting of information concerning unsolicited calls, call forwarding, suppression of caller identification, billing information and blockage of outgoing calls; • emergency call services, including routing to the competent authority, with the ability to determine the caller’s location; • directory services, including access to Swiss subscriber directories in electronic form or through voice information in each official Swiss language; • public payphones in sufficient number around the clock for incoming and outgoing national telephone calls and outgoing international telephone calls, each in real time, with access to emergency call services and to telephone directories in each official Swiss language; • transcription services for the hearing-impaired; and • directory and connection services for the blind and seeing-impaired. The Federal Council is authorized to periodically modify the services included under the Universal Service obligation in accordance with social and economic requirements and technological developments. Since January 1, 2003, Swisscom has been required to provide digital access, in addition to analog access, based on ISDN or its equivalent, capable of supporting two simultaneous connections and three different access numbers. In February 2006, the Federal Council published a proposal for the new Universal Service obligation, which would apply after the expiration of Swisscom’s current Universal Service license in December 2007. As proposed, the new Universal Service obligation would require the provision of broadband services, but omit directory information and call-forwarding services. Providing broadband services to the entire Swiss population may be difficult as a practical matter, and would likely require significant capital expenditures. Price Ceilings for Universal Service The Telecommunications Act provides that the Federal Council is periodically to fix upper limits for the price of Universal Service. In periodically determining such tariff ceilings, the Federal Council is to strive to set tariffs that are not dependent on distance. The ceilings are to apply uniformly over the entire region covered by the license and are to be determined in light of the development of the market. In the Telecommunications Ordinance, the Federal Council established price ceilings for specified Universal Services, effective January 1, 1998. In amending the Telecommunications Ordinance in October 2001, the Federal Council imposed new price ceilings for the services comprised within Universal Service, which took effect on January 1, 2003, including a price ceiling on ISDN access. In the case of PSTN access, the price ceiling was not changed. The conditions of the current Universal Service license are expected to remain in 63 Table of Contents effect until at least 2007, though existing price ceilings may be lowered when the new Universal Service license becomes effective in January 2008. The following table sets forth the price ceilings (excluding VAT) which took effect on January 1, 2003: Maximum charge activation CHF 40.00 Basic Access Line Rental Charge — PSTN (per month) CHF 23.45 Basic Access Line Rental Charge — ISDN (per month) CHF 40.00 Public Payphone Additional Per Minute Charge CHF 0.19(1) Peak(2) Off-peak(3) Night(4) National Traffic Tariffs (per minute charge) CHF 0.11 CHF 0.09 CHF 0.06 (1) Except calls to helplines 143 or 147 and to the transcription service for hearing-impaired persons, for which a per use charge of CHF 0.50 applies. Traffic charges for calls from public payphones must be the same as for calls from private homes. (2) Monday to Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (3) Monday to Friday from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., 5:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m., as well as on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. (4) Daily from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. Because price ceilings have been established separately for each Universal Service component, as opposed to establishing a single price cap for all such services taken together, Swisscom is limited in its ability to rebalance tariffs by increasing the tariff for access service to compensate for reduced traffic tariffs. However, the Ordinance does not restrict Swisscom from offering selective discounts in connection with tailored service packages or to particular customer segments, and Swisscom is also free to raise prices for a particular service at any time up to the then-applicable price ceiling. In addition to the price ceilings established by the Federal Council, Swisscom is subject to certain consumer price legislation in setting its prices. The level of prices charged by a market-dominant telecommunications service provider can be subject to review by the Supervisor of Prices (Preisüberwacher) under the Federal Act on the Supervision of Prices of December 20, 1985 (Preisüberwachungsgesetz). The proposal published by the Federal Council in February 2006 concerning the Universal Service obligation would include broadband service in the Universal Service obligation, and include a price ceiling of CHF 69 per month (excluding VAT) to ensure that people without access to competing services would not have to pay too high a price. The proposal also includes a suggested price ceiling for calls within Switzerland of CHF 0.075, which would be lower than Swisscom Fixnet’s current peak rates for domestic fixed-fixed calls. Interconnection by a Market-Dominant Provider The Telecommunications Act provides that a telecommunications service provider that has a dominant position in a particular “market” must provide interconnection to other telecommunications service providers on a non-discriminatory basis and in accordance with a transparent and cost-oriented pricing policy, stating the conditions and prices separately for each interconnection service. The Telecommunications Act authorized the Federal Council to determine the principles governing interconnection. The Telecommunications Act and ordinances do not define what the relevant “markets” are for purposes of this interconnection requirement. Under the Telecommunications Act, OfCom is required to consult the Swiss Competition Commission (Wettbewerbskommission) to determine whether a provider has a dominant position in a “market”. Under the Swiss Cartel Act, an enterprise is deemed to have a dominant market position if it is able, as regards supply or demand, to behave in a substantially independent manner with regard to the other participants in the market. Market share is only one among several criteria for assessing whether or not an enterprise has a dominant market position. In the Telecommunications Ordinance, the Federal Council has specified that a market-dominant provider must provide interconnection to the necessary equipment, services and information to other providers on a non-discriminatory basis, in no worse manner than the market-dominant provider supplies internally to its divisions, subsidiaries and partners. Interconnection is to be made through common usage of, for example, telecommunications installations, buildings and land, as necessary. Those entitled to interconnection from a market-dominant provider under the terms of the Telecommunications Ordinance are (1) licensed providers of 64 Table of Contents telecommunications services, (2) providers of telecommunications services that are obligated to make a notification to OfCom under the Telecommunications Act and (3) international telecommunications services providers. The Telecommunications Ordinance requires that a market-dominant provider must include at least the following in its basic offering of interconnection services: (1) origination, termination and transit of all call services included within Universal Service; (2) call identification services, including identification of incoming connections, completed calls, uncompleted calls and similar services; (3) access to the 08xx (toll-free) and 09xx (shared-toll) value-added services; (4) adequate physical connection to the telecommunications installations of the providers seeking access as necessary to accomplish the services connection; and (5) access to any other services as to which the provider is market-dominant. Upon request, a market-dominant provider must make known the technical and commercial terms and conditions of its interconnection services, and the basis on which the interconnection service is offered must be disclosed in an understandable and unbundled manner. In addition, the market-dominant provider is required to publish at least once a year the following information: the basic offering; a description of standard interconnection points and access conditions; and a complete description of the applicable interfaces and signal protocols. To satisfy these requirements, Swisscom publishes an interconnection brochure on the Internet and in paper format. A market-dominant provider must further promptly make known any changes in the terms of its interconnection services offering expected in the following twelve months. The Telecommunications Ordinance requires that prices charged for interconnection services by a market-dominant provider be cost-oriented. Since January 1, 2000, prices have had to be based on the following principles: a component related to the cost of providing interconnection; a component based on the long-run incremental cost (“LRIC”) of providing the requested services using the required network components; a constant mark-up for joint and common costs; and a return on capital invested at a rate customary for the industry. Costs must assume the expenses and investments of an efficient operator using modern equivalent assets and must be forward-looking. A provider of interconnection services must use accounting principles consistent with cost-oriented, non-discriminatory and transparent pricing. Following the introduction of LRIC, Swisscom substantially reduced its standard interconnection rates. Swisscom believes that its current interconnection rates are in line with the European average and represent a fair, transparent and consistent implementation of the applicable regulatory requirements. Swisscom expects to continue to reduce its interconnection charges from time to time as it realizes further cost savings through network optimization or improvements in efficiency. Since 2000, Swisscom has been involved in four legal proceedings relating to interconnection. In November 2003, ComCom issued a decision which requires Swisscom to lower interconnection prices with retroactive effect for the years 2000 to 2003 by 25-35%. Swisscom filed an appeal against this decision and in October 2004, the Federal Court overturned ComCom’s decision on procedural grounds and remanded the petitions for re-hearing before ComCom. On June 10, 2005, the ComCom confirmed its November 2003 decision, requiring Swisscom to retroactively reduce the interconnection charges charged TDC (Sunrise) and MCI between 2000 and 2003 by approximately 30%. ComCom also required TDC (Sunrise) and MCI to reduce their prices on a reciprocal basis. On July 13, 2005, Swisscom and TDC (Sunrise) both lodged an appeal against this decision with the Federal Court, which has yet to issue a decision. See “Item 8: Financial Information – Legal Proceedings”. In addition to market-dominant telecommunications service providers, providers of universal services are also obligated to make a basic offering of interconnection to other service providers. Swisscom has developed a standard interconnection offer, which it markets to all service providers in the Swiss market eligible for interconnection under the Telecommunications Act. See “ — Fixnet — Wholesale Traffic — Wholesale National”. As of December 31, 2005, Swisscom had concluded interconnection agreements with 31 operators. Interconnection agreements, except for confidential portions thereof, can be consulted by the public at the offices of OfCom. The Telecommunications Act provides that if a service provider that is required to provide interconnection and an applicant for interconnection cannot reach agreement within three months, ComCom is authorized, on a proposal from OfCom, to set the interconnection conditions. If the interconnection provider cannot demonstrate that its prices are properly related to costs as required, ComCom may determine the interconnection conditions on the basis of market and industry comparisons. 65 Table of Contents Unbundling of the Local Loop and Other Access Regulation Until April 1, 2003, under the terms of the Telecommunications Act and the Telecommunications Ordinance, market-dominant service providers were not required to offer unbundled access to the local loop or access to leased lines on a cost-oriented basis. This principle was confirmed by the Federal Supreme Court in October 2001 in the Commcare case, in which the Court ruled that leased lines and transmission media do not fall within the interconnection provisions of the Telecommunications Act and related Ordinance and stated that there is no legal basis for a requirement that Swisscom unbundle the local loop. In response to this decision, and supported by ComCom, in July 2002, the Federal Council proposed amendments to the Telecommunications Act and the Telecommunications Ordinance that would require Swisscom to offer unbundled access to its local loop and interconnection to leased lines on a cost-oriented basis. The proposal would have provided for all three kinds of unbundling, “Full Access”, “Shared Line Access” and “Bitstream Access”. In March 2003, the Federal Council adopted the amendments to the Telecommunications Ordinance, with effect from April 1, 2003. However, based on a decision issued by the Federal Court in November 2004, these amendments currently are not applicable on the grounds that the Telecommunications Act as currently in effect does not provide sufficient legal basis for those amendments. In March 2006, the Swiss Parliament adopted amendments to the Telecommunications Act which are not expected to enter into force prior to January 1, 2007. These amendments are intended to bring the Swiss telecommunications regulatory regime in line with regulatory developments in the EU and reflect some of the amendments to the Telecommunications Ordinance. Swisscom will be required to offer, among other things, unbundled access to its local loop in the form of full access on a cost-oriented basis as well as access rebilling. Unbundling of the local loop in the form of full access will allow competitors to offer access services to customers in Switzerland without having to build local loops of their own, although they will still have to make significant investments in their own network infrastructure in order to connect to the local loop. Moreover, with access rebilling, competitors will be able to bill customers directly for the access services provided by Swisscom. As a result, Swisscom’s competitors will be able to offer their customers a full range of fixed-line services, including access, and their customers would receive a single bill covering all these services. In the form passed by the Swiss Parliament, unbundling of the local loop will require market-dominant providers to also offer bitstream access to other providers on demand for four years on a cost-oriented basis. Market-dominant providers will have to make bitstream access available at the main distributor frame and over their copper net in the local loop. This will require Swisscom’s competitors to make significant upfront investments in their own network infrastructure in order to reach Swisscom’s main distributor frame for bitstream data traffic and to build their own access lines within four years or switch to full access. In addition, competitors will not be entitled to use Swisscom’s investments in fiber optic lines. The amendments are expected to increase competition when they become effective. Mobile Telecommunications In connection with the opening of the mobile market to competition, ComCom has adopted a radiocommunication frequency allocation plan under which there were to be a total of three national mobile GSM telephony licenses. One mobile telephony license was automatically granted to Swisscom pursuant to the Telecommunications Act. ComCom awarded the two additional national mobile telephony licenses through a competitive process based on designated criteria in May 1998 to diAX (now TDC (Sunrise) Switzerland AG or “TDC (Sunrise)”) and Orange. diAx was granted the right to use frequencies in the 900 MHz and 1800 MHz bands and Orange the right to use frequencies in the 1800 MHz band. The three GSM licenses are effective for a ten-year period expiring on May 31, 2008. To renew its GSM license, Swisscom Mobile was required to submit its renewal application at least two years in advance of the license expiration date. Swisscom Mobile submitted its renewal request to ComCom on December 21, 2005. ComCom has yet to issue a decision on Swisscom Mobile’s application, and may impose certain conditions on the renewal, such as requiring Swisscom Mobile to pay higher fees or give access to its network to mobile virtual network operators or to sell to its competitors mobile telephony minutes on a cost-oriented basis for resale. 66 Table of Contents In October 2000, ComCom put further frequencies (GSM 900 MHz and GSM 1800 MHz) in the extended GSM band up for auction. The auction was ultimately suspended, and the frequencies were allocated by mutual agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, Swisscom received 5 MHz, TDC (Sunrise) received 7 MHz and Orange received 2.2 MHz in the GSM 900 MHz band, including frequencies in the extended GSM band. A concession of seven years was granted on the basis of this agreement, with each contender paying the minimum price. In 2003, a third frequency block of 2x25 MHz on the GSM 1800 MHz band became available for civilian use and a GSM license was awarded to each of In&Phone and Tele2. With the aim to fostering competition in the mobile telecommunication market, Swisscom and the other two GSM operators were not allowed to participate in the bidding process. In November 2004, ComCom decided to award the remaining frequencies reserved for the GSM standard to the three GSM operators currently active in Switzerland (Swisscom, TDC (Sunrise) and Orange) with the aim of facilitating nationwide coverage in Switzerland for broadband mobile data services. On December 6, 2000, an auction for four UMTS licenses commenced with four operators participating. The UMTS licenses were sold for a total of CHF 205 million to Swisscom, dSpeed (a wholly owned subsidiary of TDC (Sunrise)), and Telefónica, each paying CHF 50 million, and Orange, paying CHF 55 million. Under the original terms of the UMTS license, each licensee was required to build out its network to achieve 20% population coverage by the end of 2002 and 50% by the end of 2004, unless it is unable to fulfill this obligation for reasons beyond its control and can prove that it has made every effort to do so. In June 2002, ComCom amended the terms of the licenses to eliminate the requirement that 20% population coverage be achieved by the end of 2002. Licensees were still required to achieve 50% population coverage by the end of 2004. Swisscom achieved this threshold in May 2003. While the Telecommunications Act opened the Swiss mobile telephony market to competition, mobile telephony in Switzerland has not yet been the subject of extensive regulation. However, developments in the EU and Switzerland could result in additional regulation in the future. The Commission of the European Union is analyzing the markets for various mobile telephony services, including mobile access and call origination, mobile termination and mobile roaming with a view to determining whether additional regulation is required to ensure effective competition and prevent market abuse. These initiatives could ultimately lead to regulation of mobile access and call origination and/or a significant reduction in mobile termination fees for individual companies determined to have significant market power in their local markets, depending on the individual application by national regulators within the European Union. They could also lead to a significant reduction in international roaming charges. While Switzerland is not a member state of the EU and therefore is not subject to EU legislation, EU directives and implementing legislation in various EU countries have served as points of reference for the development of the Swiss regulatory regime. Pressure on the Swiss regulatory authorities to regulate mobile access has increased as a result of the award of new mobile licenses to two service providers who started their mobile service operations in 2005 and requested national roaming in areas where they do not have their own network. See also “Item 8: Financial Information — Legal Proceedings — Other Regulatory Proceedings” for further information on a regulatory proceeding currently pending, which could also result in Swisscom being required to reduce its mobile termination fees. On December 22, 1999, the Federal Council adopted an ordinance relating to protection against non-ionizing radiation (Verordnung über den Schutz vor nichtionisierender Strahlung), known as the “NIS Ordinance”, which came into force on February 1, 2000. The NIS Ordinance is designed to protect the population of Switzerland from non-ionizing radiation emitted by various sources, including mobile antennae, and limits emissions by mobile base stations to specified levels. The Ordinance applies to mobile and any telecommunications services transmitted over radio, such as GSM or UMTS services. For mobile antennae with a minimum power exceeding 6 watts, construction authorizations issued by local authorities are required. Newly-built stations are required to comply with the emissions standards and existing stations have had to be upgraded to bring them into compliance. Swisscom has completed the upgrade of its existing stations for compliance with these standards. The NIS Ordinance is implemented by the cantons, which in the past have used different methods of measuring radiation emissions to determine compliance with the NIS Ordinance, resulting in significant regional variations in effective emission standards. In July 2002, the Swiss Agency for the Environment, Forests and Landscape (“BUWAL”) issued final guidelines for enforcement authorities on the appropriate methods by which to measure electromagnetic emissions from base stations and masts in the GSM network, but which did not address 67 Table of Contents emission standards for UMTS networks. Final guidelines relating to emission standards for UMTS networks were adopted in 2005. These guidelines are generally binding on the cantons, but deviations are permitted under certain circumstances. In order to comply with the applicable emission standards and maintain its current level of service, Swisscom could be required to install additional antennae. However, Swisscom does not expect the associated costs in 2006 to be materially different from those incurred in previous years. Carrier Selection and Number Portability Under the Telecommunications Act and ComCom’s ordinance relating to carrier selection and number portability, public fixed-line telephony service providers are required to provide their users the ability to select their desired national and international service providers on both a call-by-call basis (by dialing a five-digit prefix number), known as “easy access”, and on a pre-selection basis (subject to call-by-call override), known as “equal access”. Public mobile telephony service providers are also required to provide their users the ability to select their desired international service provider on an easy access basis. ComCom has provisionally suspended a further requirement that public mobile telephony service providers implement equal access in their mobile networks until technical development and international standards allow implementation thereof. In addition, public fixed-line telephony service providers, public mobile telephony service providers and non-geographical services, such as providers of toll-free numbers, are required to provide number portability. Number portability means that customers must be given the ability to switch to another service provider within the same category of service (i.e., fixed-line to fixed-line, mobile to mobile) while retaining the same telephone number. The cost of implementing number portability is borne by each service provider. The original service provider may charge a fee to the new service provider to cover the direct administrative costs of connection for a particular customer move. At the end of March 2002, a new numbering plan was introduced in Switzerland. Under the plan, all phone numbers in Switzerland consist of ten digits, with the former area code having become an integral part of a subscriber’s phone number. As a result, subscribers who have pre-selected an alternative carrier have their local calls, in addition to their long-distance calls, automatically routed over that carrier’s network. Leased Lines Under the Telecommunications Act and the Telecommunications Ordinance, ComCom is authorized to require a licensed telecommunications services provider to provide leased lines at cost-oriented prices in a particular region if it is determined that demand for such lines has not otherwise been fully met. To date, ComCom has not taken any action under these provisions. For information on the recent amendments to the Telecommunications Act that will require Swisscom to offer access to leased lines on a cost-oriented basis, see “ — Unbundling of the Local Loop and Other Access Regulation” and “Item 8: Financial Information — Legal Proceedings”. Ownership of Lines and Rights of Way The Telecommunications Act provides that a licensee who has installed lines for the transmission of information by means of telecommunications techniques, or who has acquired such from third parties, owns the respective transmission lines. Prior to the enactment of the Telecommunications Act, Swisscom had the right to use public land (roads, footpaths, squares, waterways, lakes, etc.) free of cost to install and operate lines. The Telecommunications Act provides that every holder of a telecommunications service license is to have such a right to use public land free of cost to install and operate lines and public payphones, provided that such use does not interfere with the common use of such public land. The owner of such land (e.g., the Confederation, the cantons or the communities) is to grant the licensee a corresponding approval in a short and simple procedure. Except for the administrative costs for such procedure, no charges may be levied on the licensee. Under the Telecommunications Ordinance, every holder of a telecommunications service license is also entitled to install and operate lines that cross railway lines. 68 Table of Contents If the holder of a telecommunications service license cannot reach agreement with the owner of private property on the use of such property by the licensee for the installation and operation of lines, UVEK may grant the licensee the right of expropriation if the establishment of a telecommunications installation on private property is in the public interest. OfCom may, for reasons of public interest, and in particular to protect the national heritage and the environment, also require the holder of a license for telecommunications services to grant other licensees the right to make joint use of its existing installations if they have sufficient capacity and in return for appropriate compensation. With respect to this right to joint use of existing installations, the interconnection provisions are to be applied by analogy. International Obligations Over 70 member countries of the World Trade Organization (“WTO”), representing a substantial majority of the world’s basic telecommunications revenue, including Switzerland, the members of the EU and the United States, have entered into the Basic Agreement on Telecommunications (“BATS”) to provide market access to some or all of their basic telecommunications services. This agreement has been in effect since February 5, 1998. BATS is part of the General Agreement on Trade in Services, which is administered by the WTO. Under BATS, Switzerland and the other signatories have made commitments to provide “market access”, under which they are to refrain from imposing certain quotas or other quantitative restrictions in specified telecommunications services sectors and to provide “national treatment”, under which they are to avoid treating foreign telecommunications service suppliers differently than national service suppliers. In addition, a number of signatories, including Switzerland, agreed to the pro-competitive principles set forth in a reference paper relating to anti-competitive behavior, interconnection, universal service, transparency of licensing criteria, independence of the regulator and allocation of scarce resources. In a decision dated October 3, 2001, (re Commcare AG vs. Swisscom), the Swiss Federal Supreme Court found that even if the WTO/BATS provisions were directly applicable in Switzerland, which is uncertain, they do not grant any right to unbundling or to obtain leased lines or transmission on interconnection terms. 69 Table of Contents ITEM 5: OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Swisscom’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. For a reconciliation of the significant differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP, see Note 44 to the consolidated financial statements. Introduction Swisscom is the principal telecommunications provider in Switzerland, offering a comprehensive range of products and services to residential and business customers. Swisscom’s core business is the provision of fixed-line and mobile telephony as well as data services. Fixed-line services are provided through the business segments Fixnet and Solutions, generating 44% and 11% of Swisscom’s total revenue in 2005, respectively. Mobile services are provided through the business segment Mobile, generating 38% of Swisscom’s total revenue in 2005. For a more detailed description of the services provided by each of these segments, see “