Item 1A. Risk Factors Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, our past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of our future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate our results or trends in future periods. We are materially dependent on acceptance of our products by the law enforcement, both domestic and international, and federal markets. If law enforcement agencies do not continue to purchase our products, our revenues will be adversely affected. A substantial number of law enforcement and corrections agencies may not purchase our electronic control devices (ECDs). Law enforcement and corrections agencies may be influenced by claims or perceptions that ECDs, such as our products, are unsafe or may be used in an abusive manner. In addition, earlier generation conducted energy devices may have been perceived as ineffective. Sales of our products to these agencies may also be delayed or limited by these claims or perceptions. Most of our end-user customers are subject to budgetary and political constraints, particularly in the currently challenging economic environment, that may delay or prevent sales. Most of our end-user customers are government agencies. These agencies often do not set their own budgets and therefore, have limited control over the amount of money they can spend. In addition, these agencies experience political pressure that may dictate the manner in which they spend money. As a result, even if an agency wants to acquire our products, it may be unable to purchase them due to budgetary or political constraints. Currently, many governmental agencies are continuing to experience severe budgetary constraints. There can be no assurance that the economic and budgeting issues will not worsen and adversely impact sales of our products. Some government agency orders may also be canceled or substantially delayed due to budgetary, political or other scheduling delays which frequently occur in connection with the acquisition of products by such agencies and such cancellations may accelerate or be more severe than we have experienced historically as a result of the current economic environment. We may face personal injury, wrongful death and other liability claims that harm our reputation and adversely affect our sales and financial condition. Our ECD products are often used in aggressive confrontations that may result in serious, permanent bodily injury or death to those involved. Our ECD products may be associated with these injuries. A person injured in a confrontation or otherwise in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of theories including personal injury, wrongful death, negligent design, defective product or inadequate warning. We are currently subject to a number of such lawsuits. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. If successful, personal injury, misuse and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and could result in negative publicity about our products. Although we carry product liability insurance, we do incur significant legal expenses within our self-insured retention in defending these lawsuits and significant litigation could also result in a diversion of management’s attention and resources, negative publicity and a potential award of monetary damages in excess of our insurance coverage. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain and there can be no assurance that our existing or any future litigation will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, our financial condition or financial results. 16 We substantially depend on sales of our TASER X26 and X2 ECDs, and if these products do not continue to be widely accepted, our growth prospects will be diminished. In the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we derived our revenues predominantly from sales of the TASER X26 brand devices and related cartridges, and expect to depend on sales of these products for the foreseeable future. In addition, we introduced the TASER X2 device in 2011 and we are seeing a large number of customers upgrade their X26 devices to the X2 device and we expect this trend to continue. A decrease in the prices of or demand for these products, or their failure to achieve broad market acceptance, would significantly harm our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to manage our growth, our prospects may be limited and our future profitability may be adversely affected. We intend to expand our product and service lines and our manufacturing capacity as needed to meet future demand. Any significant expansion may strain our managerial, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We will need to continually improve our operations, financial and other internal systems to manage our growth effectively, and any failure to do so may lead to inefficiencies and redundancies, and result in reduced growth prospects and profitability. To the extent demand for our products increases, our future success will be dependent upon our ability to ramp manufacturing production capacity, which may be accomplished by the implementation of customized manufacturing automation equipment. To the extent demand for our products increases significantly in future periods, one of our key challenges will be to ramp our production capacity to meet sales demand while maintaining product quality. Our primary strategies to accomplish this include introducing additional shifts, increasing the physical size of our assembly facilities, the hiring of additional production staff, and the implementation of customized automation equipment. The investments we make in this equipment may not yield the anticipated labor and material efficiencies. Our inability to meet any future increase in sales demand or effectively manage our expansion could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, financial results and financial condition. Pending litigation may subject us to significant litigation costs, judgments, fines and penalties in excess of insurance coverage, and divert management attention from our business. We are involved in numerous litigation matters relating to our products or the use of such products, litigation against persons who we believe have infringed on our intellectual property, litigation against a competitor and litigation with a former distributor. Such matters have resulted, and are expected to continue to result in, substantial costs to us and some diversion of our management’s attention, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to expand sales through distributors and direct sales and our inability to recruit new distributors or increase direct sales would negatively affect our sales. Our distribution strategy is to pursue sales through multiple channels with an emphasis on independent distributors and direct sales. Our inability to establish relationships with, and retain law enforcement equipment distributors, who we believe can successfully sell our products, would adversely affect our sales. In addition, our arrangements with our distributors are generally short-term. We are also focusing on direct sales to larger agencies through our regional sales managers and our inability to grow sales to these agencies in this manner could adversely affect our sales. If we do not competitively price our products, meet the requirements of our distributors or end-users, provide adequate marketing support, or comply with the terms of our distribution arrangements, our distributors may fail to aggressively market our products or may terminate their relationships with us. These developments would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales. Our reliance on the sales of our products by others also makes it more difficult to predict our revenues, cash flow and operating results. The success of our EVIDENCE.COM Software-as-a-Service delivery model is materially dependent on acceptance of this business model by our law enforcement customers. Delayed or lengthy time to adoption by law enforcement agencies will negatively impact our sales and profitability. A substantial number of law enforcement agencies may be slow to adopt our EVIDENCE.COM digital data evidence management and storage solution, requiring extended periods of trial and evaluation. The hosted service delivery business model is not presently widely adopted by our law enforcement customer base. As such the sales cycle has additional complexity with the need to educate our customers and address issues regarding agency bandwidth requirements, data retention policies, data security and chain of custody. Delays in successfully securing widespread adoption of EVIDENCE.COM services could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition. 17 If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customers’ data or our data, our service may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our service and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure and liabilities. Our service involves the storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. These security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, and malfeasance or otherwise, during transfer of data to additional data centers or at any time, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our data or our customers’ data. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data or our customers’ data. Additionally, hackers may develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack or gain access to our networks and data centers. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. We devote significant resources to engineer secure products and ensure security vulnerabilities are mitigated. Despite these efforts, any security breach could result in a loss of confidence in the security of our service, damage our reputation, lead to legal liability and negatively impact our future sales. If we are unable to design, introduce and sell new products or new product features successfully, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new products or new product features that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner. The development of new products and new product features is complex, time consuming and expensive, and we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of new products. We cannot provide any assurance that products that we may develop in the future will achieve market acceptance. If we fail to develop new products or new product features on a timely basis that achieve market acceptance, our business, financial results and competitive position could be adversely affected. Delays in product development schedules may adversely affect our revenues. The development of software products such as EVIDENCE.COM is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Our increasing focus on our Software-as-a-Service platform also presents new and complex development issues. Significant delays in new product or service releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions and joint ventures may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to make acquisitions or enter into joint ventures as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we don’t realize a satisfactory return on our investment, or that we experience difficulty in the integration of new employees, business systems, and technology, or there is a diversion of management’s attention from our other businesses. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition. We expend significant resources in anticipation of a sale due to our lengthy sales cycle and may receive no revenue in return. Generally, law enforcement and corrections agencies consider a wide range of issues before committing to purchase our products, including product benefits, training costs, the cost to use our products in addition to or in place of other products, budget constraints and product reliability, safety and efficacy. The length of our sales cycle may range from a few weeks to as long as several years. Adverse publicity surrounding our products or the safety of such products has in the past and could in the future lengthen our sales cycle with customers. In the past, we believe we have experienced revenue decreases in part as the result of adverse effects on our customers and potential customers of negative publicity surrounding our products or the use of our products. We may incur substantial selling costs and expend significant effort in connection with the evaluation of our products by potential customers before they place an order. If these potential customers do not purchase our products, we will have expended significant resources and received no revenue in return. 18 Government regulation of our products may adversely affect sales. Federal regulation of sales in the United States: With the exceptions of the TASER XREP, our ECDs are not firearms regulated by the United States Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, but our consumer products are regulated by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission. Although there are currently no federal laws restricting sales of our core ECD products in the United States, future federal regulation could adversely affect sales of our products. Federal regulation of international sales: Our ECD devices are considered a “crime control” product by the United States Department of Commerce, or DOC, for export directly from the United States. Consequently, we must obtain an export license from the DOC for the export of our ECD devices from the United States other than to Canada. In addition, certain of our camera and software products require classifications from the DOC before they may be shipped internationally. Our inability to obtain DOC export licenses or classifications on a timely basis for sales of our products to our international customers could significantly and adversely affect our international sales. State and local regulation: Our devices are controlled, restricted or their use prohibited by a number of state and local governments. Our devices are banned from private citizen sale or use by statute in seven states: District of Columbia, Hawaii, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jersey, New York, and Rhode Island. Some cities and municipalities also prohibit private citizen possession or use of our products. Other jurisdictions may ban or restrict the sale of our products and our product sales may be significantly affected by additional state, county and city governmental regulation. With regards to Michigan, in an April 21, 2011 decision, a Circuit Court Judge in the 18th Circuit Court for the County of Bay, in the matter of People of the State of Michigan v. Dean Scott Yanna, Case No. 10-10536-FH, found that the state statute prohibiting stun devices (MCA 750.224a) is unconstitutional under the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution. Foreign regulation: Certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit the sale, possession or use of ECDs, limiting our international sales opportunities. Environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in our products and making producers for those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal. Environmental legislation within the European Union (EU) may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from EU countries as we comply with and implement these requirements. The EU has published Directives on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electrical equipment (the RoHS Directive) and on electronic and electrical waste management (the WEEE Directive). The RoHS Directive restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. The WEEE Directive directs members of the European Union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the EU. In addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, including the U.S. (under federal and state laws) and other countries, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. We continue to monitor the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by the RoHS and WEEE Directives. We endeavor to comply with applicable environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our operations and product costs; increase the complexities of product design, procurement, and manufacturing; limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory; limit our sales activities; and impact our future financial results. Any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and prohibiting sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may lose our competitive advantage or incur substantial litigation costs to protect our rights. Our future success depends upon our proprietary technology. Our protective measures, including patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secret protection, and internet identity registrations, may prove inadequate to protect our proprietary rights and market advantage. The right to stop others from misusing our trademarks and service marks in commerce depends to some extent on our ability to show evidence of enforcement of our rights against such misuse in commerce. Our efforts to stop improper use, if insufficient, may lead to loss of trademark and service mark rights, brand loyalty and notoriety among our customers and prospective customers. The scope of any patent to which we have or may obtain rights may not prevent others from developing and selling competing products. The validity and breadth of claims covered in technology patents involve complex legal and factual questions, and the resolution of such claims may be highly uncertain, lengthy and expensive. In addition, our patents may be held invalid upon challenge, or others may claim rights in or ownership of our patents. 19 We have a judgment of patent infringement against Stinger Systems as to our U.S. patent 6,999,295, claims 2 and 40. The validity of claims 2 and 40 of U.S. patent 6,999,295 were upheld by the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) in an ex parte re-examination proceeding. Stinger Systems has sold its assets to Karbon Arms. The US District Court for the District of Arizona denied our motion to hold Karbon Arms in contempt for violating the injunction against Stinger Systems. We filed a patent infringement lawsuit in July of 2011 against Karbon Arms in the US District Court for the District of Delaware and this litigation is pending. Additional details concerning this patent infringement litigation can be found in the legal proceeding section of this Form 10-K. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which could cause us to incur litigation costs and divert management attention from our business. Any intellectual property infringement claims against us, with or without merit, could be costly and time-consuming to defend and divert our management’s attention from our business. If our products were found to infringe a third party’s proprietary rights, we could be forced to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements in order to be able to sell our products or discontinue use of the protected technology. Such royalty and licensing agreements may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we face competition in foreign countries, we can enforce patent rights only in the jurisdictions in which our patent applications have been granted. Our United States patents protect us from imported infringing products coming into the United States from abroad. Applications for patents in a few foreign countries have been made; however, these may be inadequate to protect markets for our products in other foreign countries. Each foreign patent is examined and granted according to the law of the country where it was filed independent of whether a United States patent on similar technology was granted. A patent in a foreign country may be subject to cancellation if the claimed invention has not been sold in that country. Meeting the requirements of working the invention differs by country and ranges from sales in the country to manufacturing in the country. United States export law, or the laws of some foreign countries, may prohibit us from satisfying the requirements for working the invention, creating a risk that some of our foreign patents may become unenforceable. Our efforts to avoid the patent, trademark, and copyright rights of others may not provide notice to us of potential infringements in time to avoid investing in product development and promotion that must later be abandoned if suitable license terms cannot be reached. There is no guarantee that our use of conventional technology searching and brand clearance searching will identify all potential rights holders. Rights holders may demand payment for past infringements and/or force us to accept costly license terms or discontinue use of protected technology and/or works of authorship that may include, for example, photos, videos, and software. Our current research and development focus on developing software-based products increases this risk. Government regulations applied to our products may affect our markets for these products. We rely on the opinions of The Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms, including the determination that a device that has projectiles propelled by the release of compressed gas in place of the expanding gases from ignited gunpowder, are not classified as firearms. Changes in statutes, regulations, and interpretation outside of our control may result in our products being classified or reclassified as firearms. Our private citizen market could be substantially reduced if consumers are required to obtain a registration to own a firearm prior to purchasing our products. Defects in our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance and injury to our reputation. Complex components and assemblies used in our products may contain undetected defects that are subsequently discovered at any point in the life of the product. Defects in our products may result in a loss of sales, delay in market acceptance, and injury to our reputation and increased warranty costs, which could have a material adverse effect on profitability and financial condition. 20 We face risks associated with rapid technological change and new competing products. The technology associated with law enforcement devices is receiving significant attention and is rapidly evolving. While we have patent protection in key areas of our ECD technology, it is possible that new technology may result in competing products that operate outside our patents and could present significant competition for our products. Our dependence on third-party suppliers for key components of our devices could delay shipment of our products and reduce our sales. We depend on certain domestic and foreign suppliers for the delivery of components used in the assembly of our products. Our reliance on third-party suppliers creates risks related to our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of components or sub-assemblies and reduced control over pricing and timing of delivery of components and sub-assemblies. Specifically, we depend on suppliers of sub-assemblies, machined parts, injection molded plastic parts, printed circuit boards, custom wire fabrications and other miscellaneous customer parts for our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any of our suppliers and there is no guarantee that supply will not be interrupted. Any interruption of supply for any material components of our products could significantly delay the shipment of our products and have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. Component shortages could result in our inability to produce at a volume to adequately meet customer demand, which could result in a loss of sales, delay in deliveries and injury to our reputation. Single or sole-source components used in the manufacture of our products may become unavailable or discontinued. Delays caused by industry allocations or obsolescence may take weeks or months to resolve. In some cases, parts obsolescence may require a product re-design to ensure quality replacement components. These delays could cause significant delays in manufacturing and loss of sales, leading to adverse effects significantly impacting our financial condition or results of operations. Our dependence on foreign suppliers for key components of our products could delay shipment of our finished products and reduce our sales. We depend on foreign suppliers for the delivery of certain components used in the assembly of our products. Due to changes imposed for imports of foreign products into the United States, as well as potential port closures and delays created by terrorist attacks or threats, public health issues or national disasters, we are exposed to risk of delays caused by freight carriers or customs clearance issues for our imported parts. Delays caused by our inability to obtain components for assembly could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, profitability and financial condition. We may experience a decline in gross margins due to rising raw material and transportation costs associated with a future increase in petroleum prices. A significant number of our raw materials are comprised of petroleum-based products, or incur some form of landed cost associated with transporting the raw materials or components to our facility. A significant rise in oil prices could adversely impact our ability to sustain current gross margins, by increasing component pricing. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations in the event of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other mission-critical functions. Our software-related research and development and primary EVIDENCE.COM data center are located in Southern California near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations and our operating results. We may experience outages and disruptions of our EVIDENCE.COM service if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. We anticipate increasing user traffic related to the introduction of EVIDENCE.COM. The complexity of this SaaS product will demand significant computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts to purchase or lease data centers and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle an anticipated increase in traffic. This expansion is expensive, complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, which could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience, resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, harming our operating results and financial condition. 21 We may experience outages and disruptions of our EVIDENCE.COM service due to the migration of some of our data center operations to a third party cloud provider. We may face additional disruptions due to the migration of the remainder of our data center operations to a third party cloud provider. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate unexpectedly from quarter-to-quarter, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and may vary significantly in the future due to various factors, including, but not limited to: • budgetary cycles of municipal, state and federal law enforcement and corrections agencies • market acceptance of our products and services • the timing of large domestic and international orders • the outcome of any existing or future litigation • adverse publicity surrounding our products, the safety of our products, or the use of our products • changes in our sales mix • new product introduction costs • increased raw material expenses • changes in our operating expenses • regulatory changes that may affect the marketability of our products As a result of these and other factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful in the short term, and our performance in a particular period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our competitiveness and sales in foreign markets. The relative change in currency values creates fluctuations in our product pricing for potential international customers. These changes in foreign end-user costs may result in lost orders and reduce the competitiveness of our products in certain foreign markets. These changes may also negatively affect the financial condition of some existing or potential foreign customers and reduce or eliminate their future orders of our products. We also import selected components which are used in the manufacturing of some of our products. Although our purchase orders are in the United States dollar, weakness in the United States dollar could lead to price increases for the components. We maintain all of our cash, cash equivalent and short-term investment balances, some of which are not insured, at four depository institutions. We maintain the majority of our cash and cash equivalent accounts at four depository institutions. As of December 31, 2011, our aggregate balances in such accounts were $21.3 million. The Company’s balances with these institutions regularly exceed Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insured limits; however, to manage the related credit exposure, we continually monitor the credit worthiness of the financial institutions where we have deposits. We could suffer losses with respect to the uninsured balances if the depositary institutions failed and the institution’s assets were insufficient to cover its deposits and/or the Federal government did not take actions to support deposits in excess of existing FDIC insurance limits. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our ability to attract and retain our key management and technical personnel. Our success depends upon the continued service of our key management personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified technical personnel. Although we have employment agreements with certain of our officers, the employment of such persons is “at-will” and either we or the employee can terminate the employment relationship at any time, subject to the applicable terms of the employment agreements. The competition for our key employees is intense. The loss of the service of one or more of our key personnel could harm our business. 22 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 