RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report, including, but not limited to, our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below or other factors. The trading prices of our securities could also decline due to any of these factors or other factors. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements in this section are made only as of the filing date of this annual report. 1. Risk Related to our Financial Affairs (1) Our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses may be insufficient and our credit-related costs might increase We maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses. This allowance reflects our judgment of the loss potential of these items, after considering factors such as: • the nature and characteristics of obligors; • current economic conditions and trends; • prior charge-off experience; • current delinquencies and delinquency trends; • future cash flows expected to be received from the direct financing leases and loans; and • the value of underlying collateral and guarantees. We cannot be sure that our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses. In particular, this allowance may be inadequate due to adverse changes in the Japanese and overseas economies in which we operate, or discrete events which adversely affect specific customers, industries or markets. In order to enhance our collections from debtors, we may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against companies that are unable to fulfill their repayment obligations, and we may forgive loans or extend additional loans to such companies. Furthermore, if economic or the market conditions are adverse, the value of underlying collateral and guarantees may decline. As a result there is a possibility that credit-related costs might increase. If we need to increase our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses to cover these changes or events, our financial results could be adversely affected. (2) We may suffer losses on our investment portfolio We hold investments in debt and equity securities, funds, ships, vessels and aircraft in Japan, the United States and other regions. The market values of our investments are volatile and may decline substantially in the current year or future years. Also, debt and equity securities classified as available-for-short-term-sale are measured at fair value and changes in their values have a direct influence on our income and losses. We record unrealized gains and losses on debt and equity securities classified as available-for-short-term-sale securities in shareholders’ equity, net of income taxes, and do not ordinarily charge these directly to income and losses, unless we believe that declines in fair market value on all the securities (other than investment securities), are other than temporary. As the result of the U.S. sub-prime loan problem, market uncertainty has led to less liquidity of securities, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency. Although we attempt to minimize risks through risk management procedures, further deterioration in global financial market conditions could cause us to suffer unexpected losses because of declines in the fair market value of securities. 8 Table of Contents (3) Changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates could adversely affect our assets and our financial condition and results of operations Our business activities are subject to risks relating to changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates in Japan and overseas. Although we conduct asset-liability monitoring and management (“ALM”), fixed and variable interest rates and terms of fixed-rate assets and liabilities are not necessarily uniform among our assets and liabilities. As such, interest rate fluctuations such as an increase or decrease in the market interest rate or a discrepant movement in long-term or short-term interest rates could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, the value of our assets may move independently of market interest rates. In a situation where procurement costs are increasing due to a significant increase in market interest rates or the perception that an increase may occur, it may be that for new transactions, including financing leases and loans, changes in lease payments or loan interest rates will diverge from the trend in market interest rates. Furthermore, changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the credit condition of our assets and our asset structure. With respect to our floating rate loan assets, if market interest rates increase, this may increase the repayment burden our customers bear with respect to their loans. These increased burdens could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and their ability to repay their obligations to us, possibly resulting in defaults on lease transactions and loans. Alternatively, a decline in interest rates could result in faster prepayments of loans and a decrease in the value of our assets. Not all of our assets and liabilities are matched by currency. In addition, a significant portion of our operating assets, revenues and pre-tax income is attributable to overseas operations, in particular in the United States, and subject to foreign exchange risks. We have equity and accumulated retained earnings in our subsidiaries and affiliates in the United States and other countries outside of Japan, which is also subject to foreign exchange risk. As a result, a significant change in currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. (4) Our funding may be adversely affected if our credit ratings are downgraded We obtain credit ratings from rating companies. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in our interest expenses, and could have an adverse impact on our ability to access the capital markets, thereby adversely affecting our financial position and liquidity. Although we have access to other sources of liquidity, including bank borrowings and sales of our assets, we cannot be sure that these other sources will be adequate or available on terms acceptable to us if our credit ratings are downgraded or other adverse conditions arise. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by a credit ratings downgrade. (5) Our use of derivatives to manage risk and reduce price fluctuations in our investment portfolio may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We utilize derivative instruments to reduce investment portfolio price fluctuations, to manage interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk, and as part of our trading activities. However, we may not be able to successfully manage our risks through the use of derivatives. Counterparties may fail to honor the terms of their derivatives contracts with us. We may suffer losses from trading activities. As a result, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For a discussion of derivative financial instruments and hedging, see Note 26 in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” 2. Risks related to our business overall (1) We face various operational risks Our various businesses entail many sorts of operational risk. Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequacies in, or failures by, internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. Examples of operational risk include inappropriate sales practices, disclosure of confidential information, 9 Table of Contents misconduct of officers or employees, errors in the settlement of our accounts, erroneous stock orders, computer system security failures and conflicts with our employees concerning labor and workplace management. Our management attempts to control operational risk and maintain it at a level we believe is appropriate. Notwithstanding our control measures, operational risk is part of the business environment in which we operate and we may incur losses at any time due to this risk. Even if we do not incur direct pecuniary loss, our reputation may be adversely affected. Our most important operational risks are as follows. (i) A failure to comply with regulations to which our businesses are subject could result in sanctions or penalties, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations Our business and employees in Japan are subject to various laws and regulations, including those applicable to financial institutions such as Moneylending Business Law, Installment Selling Control Law, Insurance Business Law, Banking Law, Trust Business Law, Real Estate Trading Business Law, Building Standards Law as well as general laws applicable to our business activities such as Company Law, Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, Antimonopoly Act, the Personal Information Protection Act and we are under the regulatory oversight of the government authorities. Our businesses outside of Japan are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate and are subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions. Our compliance and legal risk management structures are designed to prevent violations of such laws and regulations, but they may not be effective in preventing all future violations. We engage in a wide range of businesses and may expand into new businesses through our acquisition activities. We implement various internal control measures for our businesses, however, with the expansion of our operations, these controls may be ineffective. In such cases, we may be subject to sanctions or penalties, and our reputation may be adversely affected. Future violations of laws and regulations could result in regulatory action and harm our reputation, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if there are no violations of laws, if we are investigated by government authorities and this information becomes public, our reputation may be harmed and our results of operations may be adversely affected. (ii) Failures in our computer and other information systems could hinder our operations and damage our reputation and relationship with customers We are highly reliant on computer systems and other information systems for financial transactions, personal information management, business monitoring and processing and as part of our business decision-making and risk management activities. We are also developing data center services for our customers. System shutdowns, malfunctions or failures due to unexpected contingencies, the mishandling or fraudulent acts of employees or third parties, or infection by a computer virus could have an adverse effect on our operations, such as hindered receipt and payment of monies, leak or destruction of confidential information or personal information, generation of errors in information used for business decision-making and risk management, and the suspension of other services provided to our customers. In such event, our liquidity or that of the customer who relies on us for financing or payment or who utilizes our data center services could be adversely affected, and our relationship with the customer could also be adversely affected. As a result, we could be sued or subject to administrative penalty or our reputation or credibility could be adversely affected. Our information system equipment could suffer damage from a large-scale natural disaster or terrorism. Since information systems serve an increasingly important role in business activities, the risk of stoppage of the network or information systems due to disaster or terrorism is increasing. If networks or information systems fail, we could experience interruption of business activity, delay in payment or sales, or substantial costs for recovery of functionality. 10 Table of Contents (iii) We may not be able to hire or retain human resources to achieve our strategic goals Our business requires a considerable investment in human resources and requires the retention of such resources in order to successfully compete in markets in Japan and overseas. Much of our business requires employment of talented individuals who have experience and knowledge in the financing field. If we cannot develop, hire or retain the necessary human resources, or if such personnel resign, we may not be able to achieve our strategic goals. (2) The departure of senior management could adversely affect us Our continued success relies significantly on the ability and skills of our senior management. The departure of the current senior management could have an adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (3) If our independent registered public accounting firm finds that our internal control over financial reporting is insufficient, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, resulting in a negative impact on our share price, financial condition and reputation The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring foreign private issuers to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in its Annual Report on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements are reflected in our Annual Report on Form 20-F (starting with that issued for the fiscal year March 31, 2007). Although we have diligently and vigorously established and assessed our internal control over financial reporting in order to ensure compliance with Section 404 requirements, in the future periods our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over our financial reporting and may issue a report that our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective. These possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial market due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could have a negative impact on our share price, reputation, business activities, results of operations and financial condition. (4) Our risk management may not be effective We seek continuously to improve our risk management function. However because of the expansion of our business or changes in our business environment, there is a possibility that our risk management may not be effective in some cases. As a result our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 3. Risks related to our external environment (1) We may lose market share or suffer reduced interest margins if our competitors compete with us on pricing and other terms We compete primarily on the basis of pricing, terms and transaction structure. Other competitive factors include industry experience, client service and relationships. In recent years, Japanese banks, their affiliates and other finance companies have implemented strategies targeted at increasing business with small and medium-sized enterprises, which form the core of our customer base in Japan. Our competitors sometimes seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing and terms, without regard to profitability, and we may lose market share if we are unwilling to compete on pricing or terms because we want to maintain our income levels. Since some of our competitors are larger than us and have access to capital at a lower cost than we have, they may be better able to maintain profits at reduced prices. If we compete with our competitors on pricing or terms, we may experience lower income. 11 Table of Contents (2) Our access to liquidity and capital may be restricted by economic conditions or instability in the financial markets Our primary sources of funds are borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, funding from capital markets, such as offerings of commercial paper, medium-term notes, straight bonds, asset-backed securities and other debt securities, and deposits. Such sources include a significant amount of short-term funding such as commercial paper and borrowings from various institutional lenders. Due to turmoil in financial markets, it is possible that risks related to our liquidity could significantly increase in the event that further concerns emerge related to potential bankruptcies of financial institutions. Such developments may result in increased uncertainty regarding financial systems, increases in market interest rates, additional credit exposure or weak investor sentiment that could adversely affect our access to funding, business activities, financial condition and operating results. We have taken what we believe are appropriate countermeasures in consideration of such liquidity risks, such as establishing committed credit facilities for the purpose of supplementing liquidity. However, no assurance can be provided that such measures will be adequate to deal with severely adverse borrowing conditions. (3) Negative press coverage or rumors could affect our business, financial condition, results of operation or share price Our business relies on the confidence of customers and market participants. Negative press coverage or rumors (including on the Internet) about our activities or those of our directors, executive officers and employees or regarding related industries, even if not based on fact, could harm our reputation. Even if we provide appropriate explanations to the press and other interested parties, there is no assurance that we can prevent an adverse effect on our reputation; as a result, our results of operation could deteriorate or there could be an adverse effect on our share price. (4) Our business may be adversely affected by economic fluctuations and political disturbances We conduct business operations in Japan as well as overseas, including in the United States, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East and Europe. Economic deterioration, volatility in financial markets, shifts in commodity market prices, political instability or religious strife in any such region could adversely affect our operations. For example, if as a result of the U.S. sub-prime loan problem and other factors, unstable market conditions continue and global financial market conditions deteriorate further, valuation of our securities, loans and other commitments could be subject to greater uncertainty. Notwithstanding our attempt to minimize these risks through risk management procedures, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by such conditions. (5) Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition Changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards may affect the way we conduct our business, the products we may offer in Japan or overseas and our customers, borrowers and invested companies. Such changes are unpredictable, which may cause costs to increase, and therefore our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as a result. (6) Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by unpredictable events Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by unpredictable events and any continuing adverse effect caused by such events. Unpredictable events include single or multiple and man-made or natural events, such as terrorism and earthquakes, that may, among other things, cause unexpectedly large market price movements or an unexpected deterioration of economic conditions of a country. 12 Table of Contents 4. Risks related to specific businesses (1) Our real estate-related business exposes us to various risks The main areas of our real estate-related business operations are real estate-related loans and real estate business. Real estate-related loans are comprised of loans secured by real estate collateral, loans to domestic real estate companies or construction companies and non-recourse loans for which cash flow from real estate is the main source of repayment. Real estate business is the construction and sale of condominiums; the development and lease of office buildings, logistics warehouses; the operation of hotels, golf courses and training facilities; the development and operation of senior housing; integrated facilities management and related services; and asset management services for real estate investment trusts (REITs). In Japan and overseas, adverse changes in the balance of supply and demand in real estate markets, or adverse changes in the funding environment for the purchase and development of real estate may cause the condition of the real estate market to deteriorate. See “