ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Above average interest rate risk associated with fixed-rate loans At December 31, 2008, approximately 32.8% of the Bank’s assets consisted of residential mortgage loans held for investment. Such loans represented 46.0% of the total loan portfolio at that date. While generally considered to involve less risk than other types of lending, such as commercial mortgage loans, commercial business loans and consumer loans, residential mortgage loans provide relatively lower yields. The Bank’s loan portfolio also includes a significant amount of loans with fixed rates of interest. At December 31, 2008, $196.9 million, or 60.1% of the Bank’s total loans receivable, had fixed interest rates all of which were held for investment. The Bank offers ARM loans and fixed-rate loans. Unlike ARM loans, fixed-rate loans carry the risk that, because they do not reprice to market interest rates, their yield may be insufficient to offset increases in the Bank’s cost of funds during a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, a material and prolonged increase in market interest rates could be expected to have a greater adverse effect on the Bank’s net interest income compared to other institutions that hold a materially larger portion of their assets in ARM loans or fixed-rate loans that are originated for committed sale in the secondary market. For a discussion of the Bank’s loan portfolio, see “Item 1. Business–Lending Activities.” Higher loan losses could require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our 24 Table of Contents assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses at any particular date may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, thus reducing earnings. Commercial business lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, the Bank’s commercial business loan portfolio amounted to $22.9 million, or 7.0% of total loans. Subject to market conditions and other factors, the Bank intends to expand its commercial business lending activities within its primary market area. Commercial business lending is inherently riskier than one- to four-family mortgage lending. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation value of these assets in the event of a borrower default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. See “Item 1. Business–Lending Activities–Commercial Business Loans.” Commercial real estate lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2008, the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio amounted to $65.4 million, or 20.0% of total loans. Commercial real estate lending is inherently riskier than one- to-four family mortgage lending. Because payments on loans secured by commercial properties often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy, among other things. See “Item 1. Business–Lending Activities–Commercial Real Estate Loans.” An economic recession or even modest downturn in the local economy or a decline in real estate values could hurt the Company’s profits. Nearly all of the Bank’s loans are secured by real estate or made to businesses in its primary market area. As a result of this concentration, a downturn in the local economy could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would hurt profit. In recent periods, there has been a significant decrease in real estate values in our market area, following a period of significant appreciation in real estate values. A continuing decline in real estate values could cause some of the Bank’s mortgages to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose the Company to a greater risk of loss. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt the Company’s profit and growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for it to make new loans and at times has forced it to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than it has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Future competition will likely increase because of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Bank’s continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. 25 Table of Contents The Bank and the Company operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, their chartering authority, and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of the Bank’s deposits. The Company and the Bank are both subject to regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision. Such regulations and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including to imposition of restrictions on operations, the classification of assets and determination of the level of allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory claim may have a material impact on the Bank’s operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 26 Table of Contents 