ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider, among other potential risks, the following risk factors as well as all other information set forth or referred to in this report before purchasing shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following events or outcomes actually occurs, our business operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to purchase our common stock. We initiated a voluntary recall of certain of our DermaFreeze365™ products and the effects of the recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. On March 13, 2007, Woodridge initiated a voluntary recall of all lots of its DermaFreeze365™ Instant Line Relaxing Formula (UPC Codes 6-05923-36501-6, 6-05923-36502-3 and 6-05923-10563-6) and DermaFreeze365™ Neck & Chest (UPC Code 6-05923-36503-0) products. This recall was a result of certain products from two lots testing positive for the Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, exposure to which may result in potential illness for persons who are immuno-compromised. As a result of the recall, we were unable to comply with certain covenants under our original Credit Agreement and were required to obtain $4.5 million in additional funding from Mounte LLC, our majority stockholder, and from Jocott. To the extent that we cannot replace the sales lost as a result of the recall or experience additional adverse effects (financial or operational) from the recall, we may be unable to meet our commitments or comply with our obligations under the Credit Agreement, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations We may be required to recall certain of our products in the future should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the use of any of our products causes injury or illness. A future product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. The loss of key personnel and the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified personnel could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends heavily upon the continued contributions of our senior management and employees, particularly Mr. Millin (Nextera’s president and the president and chief executive officer of Woodridge), many of whom would be difficult to replace. Mr. Millin has been the principal managing officer of Woodridge for the past ten years, and the future success of the Woodridge business will depend on his continued service and attention to the business. If key employees terminated their employment with us, our business may be significantly and adversely affected. 9 We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our net sales. We rely on major drugstore chains and mass merchandisers for the sales of our products. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our five largest customers represented approximately 75% of our gross sales. We expect that for future periods a small number of customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our net sales. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of our customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from us in the future. The loss of one or more of our customers that accounts for a significant portion of our net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers or any significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, including as a possible result of the March 13, 2007 product recall, could reduce our net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition within our industry, and we are not as financially strong or large as many of our competitors. We are not financially as strong or as large as some of the major companies against whom we compete. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Major competitors principally include large consumer products companies, such as Procter & Gamble, Unilever, KAO Corporation, L’Oreal and over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, as well as a large number of companies with revenues of less than $100 million. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and product promotion, and have more aggressive pricing policies, and may be more successful than we are in gaining and increasing shelf space at retail outlets. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. It is possible that our competitors may develop new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products or make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our market share, gross margins and cash flows. Many of our major competitors have global reach and international production, distribution, marketing and sales capabilities. As a result, they have a much greater ability than we do to expand product sales and distribution in international markets and to capture and increase market share in international markets. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into international markets, and this could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the desires of consumers. Changes in consumer preferences, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. 10 We may be unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products or in expanding our existing product lines. Our industry is highly competitive. Our future success and ability to effectively compete in the marketplace and to maintain our revenue and gross margins requires us to continue to identify, develop and introduce new products and product lines in a timely and cost-efficient manner. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and introducing new products, or in leveraging the success of or expanding existing product lines, which may have a material adverse effect on the business and prospects of our future. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater resources than we do to devote to new product development and promotion. Any business disruption due to natural disasters catastrophic events could adversely impact our financial performance If natural disasters or catastrophic events occur in the U.S., such events may disrupt operations, distribution and other aspects of our business. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. We rely on others to manufacture our products and for testing and quality control, and disruptions to our manufacturing supply chain or failures in quality control could materially and adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. Currently, we outsource our entire product manufacturing and production needs. We rely on outside manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. We also rely on our outside manufacturers to provided testing and quality control with respect to our products. A failure by our outside manufacturer of our DermaFreeze365™ products resulted in the recall of certain of these products as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors and in this report. Loss of a supplier, failures in testing or quality control, or any difficulties that arise in the supply chain, including a recall of products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. We do not have alternative sources of supply for all of our products. If a primary supplier of any of our core products is unable to fulfill our requirements for any reason, it could reduce our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our revenues and market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our profitability could decrease. We may be subject to claims of infringement regarding products or technologies that are protected by trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights. Woodridge has historically created individual brand names to identify each of its personal care product lines. Our products may also be formulated using novel chemical compounds, processes or technologies. In the crowded personal care products industry, third parties often own similar brand names, or may own patents on chemical formulas or manufacturing processes or other technologies. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing upon our trademarks, trade dress, patent rights and other intellectual property rights. If third parties believe we have infringed upon their proprietary rights, they may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations or specific product lines. Woodridge or retailers who sell Woodridge products may also engage in advertising which compares Woodridge’s products to products of third parties. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on specific advertisements or marketing claims. 11 If we are subject to an adverse judgment regarding infringement of the proprietary rights of others, we may be forced to discontinue selling affected products under their existing brands, or may need to remove such product from stores and rebrand such products, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To service our indebtedness and fund our working capital requirements, we will require significant amounts of cash. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including available borrowings under our Credit Agreement (if any), will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, and seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any or all of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We have a high level of indebtedness which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. As of December 31, 2006, we had indebtedness of approximately $11.7 million outstanding under the original Credit Agreement, consisting of approximately $9.5 million in term loans and $2.2 million under the revolving credit facility. Pursuant to the amendment to the Credit Agreement that we entered into in April 2007, the revolving credit facility was reduced from $5.0 million to $2.75 million, with approximately $0.5 million is available to be drawn, subject to compliance with certain conditions and covenants. The obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets of Nextera, Woodridge and certain of our other subsidiaries. Our high level of indebtedness could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to expend a significant portion of our future cash flows to service the indebtedness, thus reducing funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; · place us in a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt; · limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sales to purposes other than the repayment of debt; and · impair our ability to obtain additional financing. Covenants in the Credit Agreement limit our ability to operate our business. The Credit Agreement contains covenants that restrict our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens or other encumbrances; · declare or make distributions, including from Woodridge and its subsidiaries to Nextera; · make investments or acquisitions, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; 12 · issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; · issue guarantees; · sell or otherwise dispose of assets; · enter into transactions with affiliates; and · make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. We must also comply, among other things, with certain specified financial ratios, including a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and certain other financial covenants such as minimum consolidated EBITDA, minimum liquidity, maximum capital expenditures and maximum corporate overhead expense. If we default under the Credit Agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable at the election of the lenders. The Credit Agreement also provides that a reduction below certain levels in the ownership or economic interests of our existing significant stockholders will constitute an event of default. An event of default would also occur if Mr. Millin were to cease being a member of our board of directors or Woodridge’s chief executive officer at any time prior to March 9, 2010, except for certain specified reasons. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts under our Credit Agreement, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rises in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate debt, which rise and fall upon changes in prevailing interest rates. All of our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is variable rate debt, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing rates or a downturn in our business. The term loans and revolving credit facility under our Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, at either the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which is based on LIBOR, or the Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which is based on the greater of the Bloomberg Prime Rate and the U.S. federal funds rate plus 0.5%. If any of LIBOR, the prime rate or the U.S. federal funds rate increases, our debt service costs will increase to the extent that Woodridge has elected such rates for its outstanding loans. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and may affect our ability to service our debt. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness. We may need to repay or refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own and Woodridge is prohibited from paying dividends or other distributions to Nextera to pay Nextera’s costs and expenses. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Nextera’s only material assets are the outstanding capital stock of Woodridge, Nextera’s wholly owned subsidiary, through which Nextera conducts its business operations, and its current cash balances. After 2007, Nextera will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends and distributions from, Woodridge to pay Nextera’s expenses incidental to being a public holding company. Woodridge may not generate sufficient cash flows to pay dividends or distribute funds to Nextera because, for example, Woodridge may not generate sufficient cash or net income; state laws may restrict or prohibit Woodridge from issuing dividends or making 13 distributions unless it has sufficient surplus or net profits; or contractual restrictions, including negative covenants in the Credit Agreement which restrict the ability of Woodridge to make and declare dividends and distributions to Nextera, may prohibit or limit such dividends or distributions. The March 2007 and April 2007 amendments to the Credit Agreement prohibit Woodridge from paying dividends or distributions to Nextera, except that Woodridge is permitted to pay dividends and make distributions to Nextera after 2007 to enable Nextera to make certain payments and pay expenses incidental to being a public holding company up to a specified amount, provided that certain financial covenants have been met and the audited 2007 consolidated financial statements have been delivered to the lenders. We cannot assure you that Nextera will have sufficient funds available to it to meet its expenses and obligations. Any failure by Nextera to meet its obligations may have a material adverse effect on the business and operations of Nextera and its subsidiaries. All of the shares of Woodridge stock and substantially all of Woodridge’s assets are pledged to secure obligations under the Credit Agreement. All of the shares of the capital stock of Woodridge held by Nextera and substantially all of Woodridge’s assets are pledged to secure Woodridge’s obligations under the Credit Agreement. A foreclosure upon the shares of Woodridge’s common stock or its assets would result us being unable to continue our operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited or eliminated in its entirety. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $55.6 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire in 2021, for which a 100% valuation allowance has been recorded. The utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future is dependent upon our having U.S. federal taxable income. Prior to the acquisition of the Woodridge business, we had no business operations and were unable to generate U.S. federal taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards. Even following the acquisition of the Woodridge business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate taxable income in the future. Furthermore, the likelihood of an annual limitation on our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards to offset future U.S. federal taxable income is increased by (1) the issuance of common stock, certain convertible preferred stock, options, warrants, or other securities exercisable for common stock, (2) changes in the equity ownership occurring in the last three years and (3) potential future changes in the equity ownership. The amount of an annual limitation can vary significantly based on factors existing at the date of an ownership change. A substantial portion of our net operating loss was used to offset our federal tax liability, other than the alternative minimum tax, generated by the sale of Nextera’s economic consulting business in 2003. If the net operating loss carryforwards were determined to be subject to annual limitations prior to its utilization to offset the taxable gain from the sale of Nextera’s economic consulting business, our federal tax liability and the net operating loss carryforwards could be materially different and our financial position could be adversely affected. Such limitations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our common stock does not trade on an established trading market, which makes our common stock more difficult to trade and more susceptible to price volatility. The delisting of our Class A Common Stock from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may make our Class A Common Stock more difficult to trade, harm our business reputation and adversely affect our ability to raise funds in the future. 14 Our Class A Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on November 28, 2003 due to our failure to have an operating business after the sale of our economic consulting business. As a result of the delisting, our common stock may be more difficult to trade and we may suffer harm to our general business reputation and have greater difficulty in the future raising funds in the capital markets. Each of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently do not meet Nasdaq’s initial listing requirements to be re-listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market (now known as Nasdaq Capital Market) because, among other things, we do not satisfy the minimum bid price requirement. Mounte LLC (successor to Krest, LLC, Knowledge Universe LLC and Knowledge Universe, Inc.) controls 65.5% of the voting power of our stock and can control all matters submitted to our stockholders. Its interests may be different from yours. Mounte LLC owns 8,810,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 3,844,200 shares of Class B Common Stock, and 52,429 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, which combined represents approximately 65.5% of the voting power of our outstanding common and preferred stock as of December 31, 2006. The Class A Common Stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and the Class B Common Stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share, on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of the members of the Board of Directors. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to 154 votes per share, which equals the number of whole shares of Class A Common Stock into which one share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible. Accordingly, Mounte LLC will be able to determine the disposition of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including mergers, transactions involving a change in control and other corporate transactions and the terms thereof. In addition, Mounte LLC will be able to elect all of our directors. This control by Mounte LLC could materially adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock or delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We have a history of losses and there is no assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Since our inception in February 1997, we have incurred, on an historical basis, net losses of $3.0 million and $17.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively, and net losses of $24.0 million, $117.5 million, $2.3 million, $1.9 million, and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Our stock price may be volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment. We expect that the market price of our common stock will be volatile. Stock prices have risen and fallen in response to a variety of factors, including: · quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; · market conditions in the economy as a whole; · acquisitions of, or strategic alliances among, companies in our industry; and · new innovations in existing products or new products introduced by us or our companies. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet investors’ or securities analysts’ expectations. Any failure to meet these expectations, even slightly, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, because our common stock has limited volume, the stock price may be subject to extreme volatility based on a limited number of transactions. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price 15 of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Nextera, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could delay, defer or prevent an acquisition or change of control of Nextera or otherwise decrease the price of our common stock. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 