Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward- looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. The continuation of the current economic slowdown or further deterioration of economic conditions in Ohio could hurt our business. We lend primarily to consumers and businesses in Ohio. Businesses and consumers are affected by economic, regulatory and political trends which all may impact the borrower’s ability to repay loans. In addition, approximately 80% of our loans are secured by real estate and changes in the real estate market can result in inadequate collateral to secure a loan. Over the past three years, the sustained economic slowdown has, in many cases, negatively affected real estate values. This has resulted in increases in nonperforming assets and loan charge-offs. If these economic trends continue, worsen or do not improve, additional borrowers could default on their loans, resulting in continued high, or increasing levels of loan charge-offs and losses. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. The ALLL is maintained to provide for probable incurred credit losses. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the ALLL, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our ALLL may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. Further, federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and ALLL and could require an increase in the allowance. The additions to our ALLL would be made through increased provision for loan losses, which would reduce our income and could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, earnings and profitability. The level of commercial real estate and multi-family loans in our portfolios may expose us to increased lending risks and additional loan losses. Commercial real estate and multi-family residential loans totaled $118.6 million, or 59.2% of the loan portfolio, at December 31, 2010. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate and multi-family properties are dependent on successful operation or management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent than other types of loans to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. These loans also have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Some of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or multi-family residential loan outstanding with us. Additionally, criticized and classified loans in these categories totaled $36.7 million, including nonperforming loans of $7.5 million, at December 31, 2010. Continuing adverse economic conditions could have a negative impact on these loan balances in future periods. Further decline in the quality of these loans could expose us to significant losses which could materially and adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, earnings and profitability. 31 Table of Contents Our business is subject to interest rate risk, and variations in market interest rates may negatively affect our financial performance. Management is unable to accurately predict future market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including, but not limited to: inflation; recession; changes in employment levels; changes in the money supply; and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce the Company’s profits. Net interest income is a significant component of our net income, and consists of the difference, or “spread”, between interest income generated on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Although certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to which they reprice, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. In addition, residential mortgage loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans; rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations, while falling interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Our ability to generate gains on sales of mortgage loans is significantly dependent on the level of originations. Cash flows are affected by changes in market interest rates. Generally, in rising interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to increase. A majority of our commercial, commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans are adjustable rate loans and an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans that have adjustable rates of interest. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of our loans held for sale to change. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, loan volume, asset quality, value of loans held for sale and cash flows, as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could result in our not being able to sustain or grow our loan and deposit businesses. We conduct our business operations primarily in Summit, Columbiana and Franklin Counties, Ohio, and make loans generally throughout Ohio. Increased competition within these markets may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, national banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include national banks and major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization, and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions, have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to sustain current loan and deposit levels or increase our loan and deposit levels, and our business, financial condition and future prospects may be negatively affected. 32 Table of Contents We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations, and any lack of availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our business strategies and future prospects. We rely on deposits, advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund our operations. We believe that, although it is not possible to predict future terms and conditions upon renewal, a significant portion of existing deposits will remain with CFBank. If CFBank’s capital levels fall below well-capitalized levels, or remain at well-capitalized levels but CFBank is under a formal regulatory enforcement action, regulatory restrictions would eliminate our ability to use brokered deposits and above-market pricing of deposits to retain deposits or increase funding. CDARS balances are considered brokered deposits by regulation. Brokered deposits, including CDARS balances, totaled $68.0 million at December 31, 2010. CFBank’s borrowing capacity from the FHLB decreased in 2010 primarily due to increased collateral requirements as a result of the credit performance of CFBank’s loan portfolio, tightening of overall credit policies by the FHLB, and a decline in eligible collateral due to a reduction in new loan originations. FRB borrowing programs are limited to short-term, overnight funding, and would not be available to CFBank for longer term funding needs. Future deterioration in the credit performance of CFBank’s loan portfolio or CFBank’s financial performance, tightening of overall credit policies by the FHLB or FRB, or a decline in the balances of pledged collateral may further reduce CFBank’s borrowing capacity. The Holding Company has previously issued junior subordinated debentures to raise additional capital to fund our operations. We may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. However, pursuant to an agreement with OTS effective May 2010, the Holding Company may not incur, issue, renew, redeem, or rollover any debt, or otherwise incur any additional debt, other than liabilities that are incurred in the ordinary course of business to acquire goods and services, without the prior non-objection of the OTS. Additionally, the Holding Company is not able to declare, make, or pay any cash dividends or any other capital distributions, or purchase, repurchase, or redeem, or commit to purchase, repurchase or redeem any Holding Company equity stock without the prior non-objection of the OTS. Pursuant to a notice from the OTS dated October 20, 2010, the Holding Company may not pay interest on debt or commit to do so without the prior, written non-objection of the OTS. The agreement and notice with the OTS do not restrict the Holding Company’s ability to raise funds in the securities markets though equity offerings. The sale of equity or convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Debt refinancing arrangements may require us to pledge some of our assets and enter into covenants that would restrict our ability to incur further indebtedness. Additional financing sources, if sought, might be unavailable to us or, if available, could be on unfavorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or not available on reasonable terms, our business strategies and future prospects could be adversely impacted. The Holding Company may not rely on dividends from CFBank for any of the Company’s revenue. The OTS regulates and must approve the payment of dividends from CFBank to the Holding Company. The payment of dividends from CFBank to the Holding Company is not likely to be approved by the OTS while CFBank is suffering significant losses. If CFBank is unable to pay dividends, the Holding Company may not have the funds to be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or the value of your investment in our common stock. We are subject to extensive regulation that could have adverse effects. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance in all material respects with applicable federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations. Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to the Company, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the OTS, the FDIC, the FHLB System, the FR System, the Congress or other federal or state regulators, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 33 Table of Contents Our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, which includes restrictions on the ability to pay dividends or repurchase outstanding common stock, as well as restrictions on executive compensation, may act to depress the market value of the Company’s common stock and hinder our ability to attract and retain well-qualified executives. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement between the Company and the U.S. Treasury, the ability to declare or pay dividends on any of the Company’s common stock is limited to $0.05 per share per quarter. Specifically, the Company is not permitted to declare or pay dividends on common stock if the Company is in arrears on the payment of dividends on the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury (the Preferred Stock). In addition, the ability to repurchase outstanding common stock is restricted. The approval of the U.S. Treasury generally is required for the Company to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) unless all of the Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the U.S. Treasury to unaffiliated third parties. Further, outstanding common stock may not be repurchased if the Company is in arrears on the payment of Preferred Stock dividends. The restriction on the Company’s ability to pay dividends may depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. As a participant under the TARP Capital Purchase Program, the Company must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by statute and the TARP Compensation Standards for as long as the U.S. Treasury holds any securities acquired from the Company pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury as part of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (the Warrant), excluding any period during which the U.S. Treasury holds only the Warrant. In addition, the restrictions on the Company’s ability to compensate senior executives in relationship to executive compensation at companies that are not recipients of TARP funds may limit the Company’s ability to recruit and retain senior executives. The Company’s participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. Treasury’s ability to change the terms, rules or requirements of the TARP Capital Purchase Program could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital will increase substantially. If we are unable to redeem the Preferred Stock prior to February 13, 2013, the cost of this capital will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on the Company’s financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on liquidity and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents The Preferred Stock reduces net income available to holders of the Company’s common stock and earnings per share of common stock, and the Warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury may be dilutive to holders of the Company’s common stock. While the additional capital raised through participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program provides further funding for our business, our participation has increased the number of diluted outstanding common shares and carries a preferred dividend. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Preferred Stock reduces the net income available to holders of the Company’s common stock and earnings per common share. The Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of the Company’s liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of the Company’s common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant, issued to the U.S. Treasury in conjunction with the sale to the U.S. Treasury of the Preferred Stock, is exercised. The common stock underlying the Warrant represented approximately 7.5% of total common shares outstanding as of March 15, 2011. Although the U.S. Treasury has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant, or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant, is not bound by this restriction. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq® Capital Market and Nasdaq® determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline, and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively affected. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq® Capital Market. To maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements. For example, Nasdaq® rules require that we maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for our common stock. If our stock price falls below a $1.00 closing bid price for at least 30 consecutive trading days, or we fail to meet other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq® Capital Market, and we are unable to cure the events of noncompliance in a timely or effective manner, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq® Capital Market. On December 17, 2010 we did receive a notice from the Nasdaq® Capital Market that we did not comply with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq® Capital Market because the bid price for our common stock had fallen below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. We were able to regain compliance on January 26, 2011, and, as such, there was no lapse in our ability to be listed. Any such delisting, however, could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets. Any limitation on market liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock as a result of that delisting could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 35 Table of Contents 