ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider, among other potential risks, the following risk factors as well as all other information set forth or referred to in this report before purchasing shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following events or outcomes actually occurs, our business operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to purchase our common stock. The loss of key personnel and the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified personnel could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends heavily upon the continued contributions of our senior management and employees, particularly Mr. Millin (Nextera’s president and the president and chief executive officer of WLab), many of whom would be difficult to replace. Mr. Millin has been the principal managing officer of Woodridge for the past nine years, and the future success of the Woodridge business will depend on his continued service and attention to the business. In addition, we have hired all of the former employees of Woodridge as part of the Transaction, and will continue to rely on their knowledge of the business. If key employees terminate their employment with us, our business may be significantly and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our net sales. We rely on major drugstore chains and mass merchandisers for the sales of our products. During the year ended December 31, 2005, Woodridge’s five largest customers represented approximately 73% of its gross sales. We expect that for 2006 and future periods a small number of customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our net sales. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of our customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from us in the future. The loss of one or more of our customers that accounts for a significant portion of our net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers or any 8 Table of Contents significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce our net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition within our industry, and we are not as financially strong or large as many of our competitors. We are not financially as strong or as large as some of the major companies against whom we compete. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than us. Major competitors principally include large consumer products companies, such as Procter & Gamble, Unilever, KAO Corporation, L’Oreal and over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, as well as a large number of companies with revenues of less than $100 million. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and product promotion and more aggressive pricing policies, and may be more successful than we are in gaining and increasing shelf space at retail outlets. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. It is possible that our competitors may develop new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products or make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our market share, gross margins and cash flows. Many of our major competitors have global reach and international production, distribution, marketing and sales capabilities. As a result, they have a much greater ability than we do to expand product sales and distribution in international markets and to capture and increase market share in international markets. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into international markets, and this could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products or in expanding our existing product lines. Our industry is highly competitive. Our future success and ability to effectively compete in the marketplace and to maintain our revenue and gross margins requires us to continue to identify, develop and introduce new products and product lines in a timely and cost-efficient manner. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and introducing new products, or in leveraging the success of or expanding existing product lines, and this may have a material adverse effect on the business and prospects of our future. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater resources than we do to devote to new product development and promotion. We rely on others to manufacture our products, and disruptions to our manufacturing supply chain could affect our sales and financial condition. Currently, we outsource our entire product manufacturing and production needs. We rely on outside manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. Loss of a supplier or any difficulties that arise in the supply chain, including a recall of products, could significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. We do not have alternative sources of supply for all of our products. If a primary supplier of any of our core products is unable to fulfill our requirements for any reason, it could reduce our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our revenues and market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our profitability could decrease. 9 Table of Contents We may be subject to claims of infringement regarding products or technologies that are protected by trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights. Woodridge has historically created individual brand names to identify each of its personal care product lines. Woodridge’s products may also be formulated using novel chemical compounds, processes or technologies. In the crowded personal care products industry, third parties often own similar brand names, or may own patents on chemical formulas or manufacturing processes or other technologies. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing our trademarks, trade dress, patent rights and other intellectual property rights. If third parties believe we have infringed upon their proprietary rights, they may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations or specific product lines. Woodridge or retailers who sell Woodridge products may also engage in advertising which compares Woodridge’s products to products of third parties. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on specific advertisements or marketing claims. If we are subject to an adverse judgment regarding infringement of the proprietary rights of others, we may be forced to discontinue selling affected products under their existing brands, or may need to remove such product from stores and rebrand such products, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In March 2005, a third party filed a lawsuit against Woodridge Labs, Inc. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York for trademark infringement, trademark dilution and false advertising in relation to the DermaFreeze365 product line, which action is pending. In the complaint, the complainant alleges that Woodridge Labs, Inc. intentionally copied the trademark, package design and advertising of a competing product line. We are not party to this litigation and Woodridge Labs, Inc. has agreed to indemnify us for any liabilities arising in relation to this litigation or any related action. Since we intend to continue to market this product line, the plaintiff in the suit may name us as an additional defendant in the suit or a related action. If an action is brought against Nextera or WLab, we intend to vigorously contest such action, but cannot assure you that we will be successful in any resulting litigation or other action. If litigation or other action is brought against us, this may affect our ability to offer the DermaFreeze365 product line using this brand. Our products are subject to federal and state regulations that could adversely affect our financial results. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and the FTC, as well as various other federal, state, and local regulatory authorities. The FDA regulates both our cosmetic and over-the-counter drug products with respect to labeling, manufacturing, and quality control, while the FTC is primarily concerned with the manner in which the products are advertised. Such regulation is intended to ensure that the products are safe, properly labeled, and marketed in a manner that is neither false nor deceptive. FDA and FTC regulation have a significant impact upon the claims that we make for our products, the ingredients that we select for them, and our product packaging. To the extent that regulatory changes occur in the future, they could require us to reformulate or discontinue certain of our products, to revise our product packaging and/or labeling, and/or to modify our approach to marketing the products. These outcomes, if they were to occur, could result in, among other things, increased costs, delays in product launches, and the possibility of product recalls. To service our indebtedness and fund our working capital requirements, we will require significant amounts of cash. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our future operating performance and on our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, and seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 10 Table of Contents We have a high level of indebtedness which could adversely affect our cash flows and business. As of March 27, 2006, we had indebtedness of approximately $13.0 million. Under our current senior secured credit facilities, we are allowed to borrow an additional $2.0 million dependent upon our debt covenants and the cash flows of the business. Our high level of indebtedness could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to expend a significant portion of our future cash flows to service the indebtedness, thus reducing funds available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes; • place us in a disadvantage compared to competitors who have less debt; • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering or asset sales to purposes other than the repayment of debt; and • impair our ability to obtain additional financing. Covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities may limit our ability to operate our business. The credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities, or the Credit Agreement, contains covenants that restrict our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens or other encumbrances; • declare or make distributions, including from WLab and its subsidiaries to Nextera; • make investments or acquisitions, prepay subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • issue or sell capital stock of subsidiaries; • issue guarantees; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • make acquisitions or merge or consolidate with another entity. We must also comply, among other things, with certain specified financial ratios, including a fixed charge coverage ratio and a leverage ratio, and certain other financial covenants such as minimum consolidated EBITDA, maximum capital expenditures and maximum corporate overhead expense. If we default under the Credit Agreement because of a covenant breach or otherwise, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. The Credit Agreement also provides that a reduction below certain levels in the ownership or economic interests of our existing significant stockholders will constitute an event of default. An event of default would also occur if Mr. Millin were to cease being a member of our board of directors or WLab’s chief executive officer at any time prior to March 9, 2010, except for certain specified reasons. We cannot assure you that we would have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts under our secured credit facilities, and any acceleration of amounts due would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Rises in interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition. An increase in prevailing interest rates would have an immediate effect on the interest rates charged on our variable rate of debt, which rise and fall upon changes in interest rates. All of our indebtedness under our Credit Agreement is variable rate debt, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, 11 Table of Contents increases in prevailing rates or a downturn in our business. The term loans and revolving credit facility under our Credit Agreement bear interest, at WLab’s option, at either the Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which is based on LIBOR, or the Base Rate (as defined in the Credit Agreement), which is based on the greater of the Bloomberg Prime Rate and the U.S. federal funds rate plus 0.5%. If any of LIBOR, the prime rate or the U.S. federal funds rate increases, our debt service costs will increase to the extent that WLab has elected such rates for its outstanding loans. If prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates, the increased interest expense would adversely affect our cash flow and may affect our ability to service our debt. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own and is dependent on subsidiaries to pay certain expenses and dividends. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Nextera’s only material assets are the outstanding shares of capital stock of WLab, Nextera’s wholly owned subsidiary, through which Nextera conducts its business operations, and its current cash balances. After 2006, Nextera will be dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends and distributions from, WLab to pay Nextera’s expenses incidental to being a public holding company. WLab may not generate sufficient cash flows to pay dividends or distribute funds to Nextera because, for example, WLab may not generate sufficient cash or net income; because state laws may restrict or prohibit WLab from issuing dividends or making distributions unless it has sufficient surplus or net profits, which WLab may not have; or because contractual restrictions, including negative covenants in the Credit Agreement which restrict the ability of WLab to make and declare dividends and distributions to Nextera, may prohibit or limit such dividends or distributions. The Credit Agreement generally restricts WLab from paying dividends or distributions, except that WLab is permitted to pay dividends and make distributions to Nextera to enable Nextera to make certain payments and pay expenses incidental to being a public holding company up to a specified amount, provided that certain financial covenants have been met. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet the conditions in the Credit Agreement necessary to allow WLab to pay dividends and make distributions to Nextera. All of the shares of WLab stock are pledged to secure obligations under the Credit Agreement. All of the shares of the capital stock of WLab held by Nextera are pledged to secure Nextera’s guarantee of WLab’s obligations under the Credit Agreement. A foreclosure upon the shares of WLab’s common stock would result in Nextera no longer holding this material asset, and would have a material adverse effect on the holders of Nextera’s common stock. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited or eliminated in its entirety. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $53.0 million of net operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire in 2021, for which a 100% valuation allowance has been recorded. The utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future is dependent upon our having U.S. federal taxable income. Prior to the Transaction, we had no business operations and were unable to generate U.S. federal taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards. Even following the Transaction, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate taxable income in the future. Furthermore, the likelihood of an annual limitation on our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards to offset future U.S. federal taxable income is increased by (1) the issuance of common stock, certain convertible preferred stock, options, warrants, or other securities exercisable for common stock, (2) changes in the equity ownership occurring in the last three years and (3) potential future changes in the equity ownership. The amount of an annual limitation can vary significantly based on factors existing at the date of an ownership change. A substantial portion of our net operating loss was used to offset our federal tax liability, other than 12 Table of Contents alternative minimum tax, generated by the sale of our economic consulting business in 2003. If the net operating loss carryforwards were determined to be subject to annual limitations prior to its utilization to offset the taxable gain from the sale of our economic consulting business, our federal tax liability and the net operating loss carryforwards could be materially different and our financial position could be adversely affected. Such limitations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our common stock does not trade on an established trading market, which makes our common stock more difficult to trade and more susceptible to price volatility. The delisting of our Class A Common Stock from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may make our Class A Common Stock more difficult to trade, harm our business reputation and adversely affect our ability to raise funds in the future. Our Class A Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on November 28, 2003 due to our failure to have an operating business after the sale of our economic consulting business. As a result of the delisting, our common stock may be more difficult to trade and we may suffer harm to our general business reputation and have greater difficulty in the future raising funds in the capital markets. Each of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently do not meet Nasdaq’s initial listing requirements to be re-listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market (now known as Nasdaq Capital Market) because, among other things, we do not satisfy the minimum bid price requirement. Mounte LLC (successor to Krest, LLC, Knowledge Universe LLC and Knowledge Universe, Inc.) controls 64.7% of the voting power of our stock and can control all matters submitted to our stockholders and its interests may be different from yours. Mounte LLC owns 8,810,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 3,844,200 shares of Class B Common Stock, and 48,906 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, which combined represents (as of the closing of the Transaction) approximately 64.7% of the voting power of our outstanding common and preferred stock. The Class A Common Stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and the Class B Common Stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share, on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of the members of the Board of Directors. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to 145 votes per share, which equals the number of whole shares of Class A Common Stock into which one share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible. Accordingly, Mounte LLC will be able to determine the disposition of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including mergers, transactions involving a change in control and other corporate transactions and the terms thereof. In addition, Mounte LLC will be able to elect all of our directors. This control by Mounte LLC could materially adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock or delay or prevent a change in control of our company. We have a history of losses and there is no assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Since our inception in February 1997, we have incurred, on an historical basis, net losses of $3.0 million and $17.2 million for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, respectively, and net losses of $24.0 million, $117.5 million, $2.3 million and $1.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2000, 2001, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Immediately prior to the Transaction, we had no business operations and were not profitable. Even following the Transaction, there is no assurance that we will be profitable in the future. Our stock price may be volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment. We expect that the market price of our common stock will be volatile. Stock prices have risen and fallen in response to a variety of factors, including: • quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results; • market conditions in the economy as a whole; • acquisitions of, or strategic alliances among, companies in our industry; and 13 Table of Contents • new innovations in existing products or new products introduced by us or our companies. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet investors’ or securities analysts’ expectations. Any failure to meet these expectations, even slightly, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, because our common stock has limited volume, the stock price may be subject to extreme volatility based on a limited number of transactions. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could delay, defer or prevent an acquisition or change of control of us or otherwise decrease the price of our common stock. These provisions include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 