Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. 16 Forward Looking Statements Our disclosure and analysis in this 2008 Form 10-K and in our 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. From time to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We have tried, wherever possible, to identify each such statement by using words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “will,” “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, future acquisitions or dispositions, future capital expenditure plans, future performance or results of current and anticipated expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, or the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statements will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions, including the risk factors discussed below. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosures we make or related subjects in our 10-Q and 8-K reports to the SEC. Also note that we provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. These are factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all such risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Financial Risks and Risks of Operation Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy is currently in the midst of a recession and the future economic environment is likely to be less favorable than that of recent years. This recession has and could further lead to reduced consumer and commercial spending in the foreseeable future. The performance of the lodging industry has historically been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the United States gross domestic product, business investment and employment growth. As a result, the lodging industry may experience significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. In addition, the vast majority of our hotels are classified as luxury or upper-upscale hotels. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels are likely to be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. Declines in demand and in consumer and commercial spending may drive us and our competitors to reduce pricing, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit. A continued weakening of the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we can not accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of the weakening economy may also reduce our working capital and impact our long-term business strategy. Our revenues and the value of our properties are also subject to other conditions affecting the lodging industry. The lodging industry is also subject to changes in travel patterns of business and leisure travelers, both of which are affected by the strength of the economy, as discussed above, as well as other factors. Changes in travel 17 patterns of both business and leisure travelers may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results. Our results of operations, and any forecast we make, may be affected and can change based on the following risks: • changes in the international, national, regional and local economic climate; • changes in business and leisure travel patterns; • the effect of terrorist attacks and terror alerts in the United States and internationally, as well as other geopolitical disturbances • supply growth in markets where we own hotels which may adversely affect demand at our properties; • the attractiveness of our hotels to consumers relative to our competition; • the performance of the managers of our hotels; • changes in room rates and increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors; and • unionization of the labor force at our hotels. The recent disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect our business and results of operations, our ability to obtain financing on reasonable and acceptable terms, our ability to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk and the market price of our common stock. The United States and global stock and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the lack of availability of certain types of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. A prolonged downturn in the stock or credit markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business operations accordingly. In addition, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our existing credit facility fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under the credit facility. Similarly, if one or more of the financial institutions that support our currency hedging arrangements fails, we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively impact our ability to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk relating to our international operations and may cause a default under our existing financing agreements. These disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. In addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We depend on external sources of capital for future growth and we may be unable to access capital when necessary. Unlike regular C corporations, we must finance our growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (other than net capital gain) in order to qualify as a REIT, including taxable income we recognize for federal income tax purposes but with regard to which we do not receive cash. Our ability to access the external capital we require could be hampered by a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including 18 declining credit market conditions as discussed above, unfavorable market perception of our growth potential, decreases in our current and estimated future earnings, or decreases in the market price of Host’s common stock. In addition, our ability to access additional capital may also be limited by the terms of our existing indebtedness, which, under certain circumstances, restricts our incurrence of debt and the payment of distributions. The occurrence of any of these above-mentioned factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us or at all and the failure to obtain necessary external capital could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our future growth. We have substantial debt. As of December 31, 2008, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $6.0 billion. Our substantial indebtedness has important consequences. It currently requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and other general purposes. Additionally, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • limit our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of our debt or obtain financing for expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general business purposes on terms and conditions acceptable to us, if at all; or • affect adversely our ability to compete effectively or operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. If our cash flow and working capital were not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we would have to raise additional funds through: • sales of our equity; • the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by Host LP; or • the sale of our assets. We cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds would be available to us or, if available, would be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. The terms of our debt place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, reducing operational flexibility and creating default risks. The documents governing the terms of our existing senior notes and our credit facility contain covenants that place restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. These covenants restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • conduct acquisitions, mergers or consolidations unless the successor entity in such transaction assumes our indebtedness; • incur additional debt in excess of certain thresholds and without satisfying certain financial metrics; • create liens securing indebtedness, unless an effective provision is made to secure our other indebtedness by such liens; • sell assets without using the proceeds from such sales for certain permitted uses or to make an offer to repay or repurchase outstanding indebtedness; • make capital expenditures in excess of certain thresholds; 19 • pay dividends without satisfying certain financial metrics; and • conduct transactions with affiliates other than on an arms length basis and, in certain instances, without obtaining opinions as to the fairness of such transactions. In addition, certain covenants in the credit facility require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial performance tests. If we fail to meet such tests, the restrictive covenants in the applicable indenture(s), the credit facility and the documents governing our other debt (including our mortgage debt) will reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our debt. For a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition”. Our ability to pay dividends may be limited or prohibited by the terms of our indebtedness or preferred stock. We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that restrict or prevent the payment of dividends on our classes and series of capital stock. Under the terms of Host LP’s credit facility and senior notes indenture, distributions to Host by Host LP, upon which Host depends in order to obtain the cash necessary to pay dividends, are permitted only to the extent that, at the time of the distribution, Host LP can satisfy certain financial covenant tests (concerning leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage) and meet other requirements. In addition, under the terms of our outstanding Class E Preferred Stock, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock unless all cumulative dividends have been paid (or funds for payment have been set aside for payment). The amount of aggregate dividends that accrue on the Class E Preferred Stock each quarter is approximately $2.2 million. In the event that we fail to pay the accrued dividends on our Class E Preferred Stock for any reason, including any restriction on paying such dividends under the terms of our debt instruments (as discussed above), dividends will continue to accrue on such preferred stock and we will be prohibited from paying any dividends on our common stock until all such accrued but unpaid dividends on our Class E Preferred Stock have been paid (or funds for such payment have been set aside). Defaulting on our mortgage debt could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2008, 14 of our hotels and assets related thereto are subject to mortgages in an aggregate amount of approximately $1.4 billion. Although the debt is generally non-recourse to us, if these hotels do not produce adequate cash flow to service the debt secured by such mortgages, the mortgage lenders could call a default on these assets. Generally, we would expect to negotiate with the lender prior to the occurrence of a default in the pursuit of other options such as a deed in lieu of foreclosure. However, we may opt to allow such default to occur rather than make the necessary mortgage payments with funds from other sources. Host LP’s senior notes indenture and credit facility contain cross-default provisions, which, depending upon the amount of secured debt in default, could cause a cross-default under both of these agreements. Host LP’s credit facility, which contains a more restrictive cross-default provision than the senior notes indenture, provides that a credit facility default occurs in the event Host LP defaults on non-recourse secured indebtedness in excess of 1% of its total assets (using undepreciated real estate values), or defaults on other indebtedness in excess of $50 million. For this and other reasons, permitting a default could adversely affect our long-term business prospects. Our mortgage debt contains provisions that may reduce our liquidity. Certain of our mortgage debt requires that, to the extent cash flow from the hotels which secure such debt drops below stated levels, we escrow cash flow after the payment of debt service until operations improve above the stated levels. In some cases, the lender has the right to apply the escrowed amount to the outstanding balance 20 of the mortgage debt. When such provisions are triggered, there can be no assurance that the affected properties will achieve the minimum cash flow levels required to trigger a release of any escrowed funds. The amounts required to be escrowed may be material and may negatively affect our liquidity by limiting our access to cash flow after debt service from these mortgaged properties. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on our credit facility and any variable rate debt we incur and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. For borrowings on our credit facility and the $300 million mortgage on our Orlando World Center Marriott, interest payments are based on floating rates. To the extent we draw on the credit facility, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes including investments in our portfolio. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures and increase interest costs on any debt that is refinanced. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts. While these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of assets as part of our business strategy. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Both our senior notes and our preferred stock are rated by Moody’s Investors’ Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. These independent rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our senior notes and our preferred stock at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital. Our expenses may not decrease if our revenue decreases. Many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible and do not necessarily decrease in tandem with a reduction in revenue at the hotels. Our expenses will also be affected by inflationary increases, and certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period and, in the event of a significant decrease in demand, we may not be able to downsize employees to decrease wages and benefits. Our managers may be unable to offset any such increased expenses with higher room rates. Any of our efforts to reduce operating costs or failure to make scheduled capital expenditures could also adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotel properties. Our acquisition of additional properties may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we seek to acquire luxury and upper upscale hotel properties. We may acquire properties through various structures, including transactions involving portfolios, single assets, joint ventures and acquisitions of all or substantially all of the securities or assets of other REITs or similar real estate entities. We anticipate that our acquisitions will be financed through a combination of methods, including proceeds from Host equity offerings, issuance of limited partnership interests of Host LP, advances under our credit facility, the incurrence or assumption of indebtedness and proceeds from the sales of assets. Recent declines in credit markets may limit our ability to finance acquisitions. In addition, the decline in credit markets may limit the ability of purchasers to finance hotels and adversely affect our disposition strategy and our ability to use disposition proceeds to finance acquisitions. We may, from time to time, be in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible acquisition transactions and we expect to continue to do so in the future. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be 21 successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from the acquisitions that we consummate. Our inability to consummate one or more acquisitions on such terms, or our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions, could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations, including as a result of our incurrence of additional indebtedness and related interest expense and our assumption of unforeseen contingent liabilities. We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. Since federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing a hotel, we do not operate or manage our hotels. Instead, we lease substantially all of our hotels to subsidiaries which qualify as “taxable REIT subsidiaries” under applicable REIT laws, and our taxable REIT subsidiaries retain third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. Our cash flow from the hotels may be adversely affected if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name. While our taxable REIT subsidiaries monitor the hotel managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. In addition, from time to time, we have had, and continue to have, differences with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements. We generally resolve issues with our managers through discussions and negotiations. However, if we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in or provided credit support or operating guarantees to hotels that compete with our hotels, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers have in the past made and may in the future make decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interests. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. We have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotel properties. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring and maintaining the labor force at each of our hotels. Although we do not directly employ or manage employees at our hotels, we are subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted through strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We may also incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs as a result of contract disputes or other events. Additionally, hotels where our managers have collective bargaining agreements with employees (approximately 21% of our current portfolio, by revenues) are more highly affected by labor force activities than others. In addition, the resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, either by increases in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. Furthermore, labor agreements may limit the ability of our managers to reduce the size of hotel workforces during an economic downturn because collective bargaining agreements are negotiated between the managers of our hotels and labor unions. We do not have the ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures to remain competitive in the marketplace, maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. The timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. In addition to capital expenditures required by our loan agreements or agreements with our hotel managers, we will need to make capital expenditures to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The timing of these improvements can 22 affect hotel performance particularly if the improvements require closures of a significant number of rooms or the closure of other features of the hotels such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. These capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. In addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and if we fail to maintain our properties in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, the manager may terminate the management agreement. Moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels in which we make these investments. The expansion of our business into new markets outside of the United States will expose us to risks relating to owning hotels in those international markets. Part of our business strategy is to expand our presence internationally through joint ventures. In addition, we own directly seven hotels located outside the United States. We may have difficulty managing our expansion into new geographic markets where we have limited knowledge and understanding of the local economy, an absence of business relationships in the area, or unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and regulations. There are risks inherent in conducting business internationally, which include: • employment laws and practices; • tax laws which may provide for income or other tax rates that exceed those of the U.S. and which may provide that our foreign earnings are subject to dividend withholding requirements or other restrictions; • compliance with and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements or monetary policy; • the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to provide financing and changes in the availability, cost and terms of such financing; • adverse changes in local, political, economic and market conditions; • insurance coverage related to terrorist events; • changes in interest rates and/or the currency exchange rates; • regulations regarding the incurrence of debts; and • difficulties in complying with U.S. rules governing REITs while operating internationally. Any of these factors could adversely affect our ability to obtain all of the intended benefits of our international expansion. If we do not effectively manage our geographic expansion and successfully integrate the foreign hotels into our organization, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected and the value of Host common stock may decline. We may acquire hotel properties through joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. We have made a significant investment in a European joint venture, which owns eleven hotels in Europe. In addition, we have formed another joint venture to explore investment opportunities in Asia and Australia. We may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities holding hotel properties instead of purchasing hotel properties directly. Co-venturers often share control over the operation of a joint venture. Actions by a co-venturer could subject the assets to additional risk as a result of any of the following circumstances: • our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our, or the joint venture’s, interests or goals; or • our co-venturer may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Although we generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of any joint venture to permit our objectives to be achieved, we might not be able to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. 23 Our management agreements could affect the sale or financing of our hotels. Under the terms of our management agreements, we generally may not sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets specified other conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our properties, depending upon the structure of such transactions, may require the manager’s consent. If the manager does not consent to such sale or financing, we may be precluded from taking actions in our best interest. The acquisition contracts relating to some hotels limit our ability to sell or refinance those hotels. For reasons relating to federal and state income tax considerations of the former and current owners of three hotels, we have agreed to restrictions on selling the hotels, or repaying or refinancing the mortgage debt for varying periods depending on the hotel. Two of these agreements will expire in 2010 and the third will expire in 2028. As a result, even if it were in our best interests to sell these hotels or repay or otherwise reduce the level of the mortgage debt on such hotels, it may be difficult or costly to do so during their respective lock-out periods. In specified circumstances, we may agree to similar restrictions in connection with future hotel acquisitions. Future terrorist attacks or changes in terror alert levels could adversely affect us. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorist alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. The impact that terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere could have on domestic and international markets and our business in particular is indeterminable. It is possible that such attacks or the threat of such attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition as a whole. We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. We obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program, as well as our general liability and directors’ and officers’ coverages. However, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits, annual aggregate coverage limits and sublimits which might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. Also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act (“TRIPRA”) effective December 26, 2007. Property damage related to war and to nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. While TRIPRA will reimburse insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical perils, TRIPRA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. Host has a wholly-owned captive insurance company through which it obtains a policy of nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological (“NBCR”) coverage. This captive insurer has the same ability as other insurance companies to apply to the US Treasury for reimbursement, as provided for in TRIPRA, and is subject to the same deductibles and co-insurance obligations. This potential reimbursement applies to property insurance only, and not to general liability or directors’ and officers’ insurance, and there are no assurances that we will be able to recover any or all of our NCBR losses under this program. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We, or our hotel managers, carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption and other risks with respect to all of our hotels and other properties. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar type properties. Generally, our “all-risk” property policies provide coverage that is available on a per occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has 24 an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. Sub-limits exist for certain types of claims such as service interruption, abatement, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes and hurricanes. The dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. In this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including California and Florida have in the past and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from earthquakes and hurricanes. Recovery under the applicable policies is also subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. There is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel impacted by an earthquake, hurricane or other natural disasters, or the income lost as a result of the damage. Our property policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined together for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits contained in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will also be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the managers’ program for the same purpose. Therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, or, in the case of hotels where coverage is provided by the management company, affects hotels owned by others, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. Each affected hotel may only receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. We may incur losses in excess of insured limits and, as a result, we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties such as earthquakes, hurricanes or certain types of terrorism. In addition, there are other risks, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. We may also encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Finally, the current disruption in financial markets makes it more difficult to evaluate the stability and net assets or capitalization of insurance companies, and any insurer’s ability to meet its claim payment obligations. Litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. We are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. We are vigorously defending each of these claims. Currently, none of these claims seeks relief that, if granted, would have a significant effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, we could become the subject of claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, or regulating entities, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. We may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities related to hotels or businesses we acquire. Assets and entities that we have acquired or may in the future acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements may not survive the closing of the transactions. While we usually require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification is often limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with acquired hotels and entities may exceed our expectations, plus we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all 25 of which may adversely affect our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. Finally, indemnification agreements between us and the sellers typically provide that the sellers will retain certain specified liabilities relating to the assets and entities acquired by us. While the sellers are generally contractually obligated to pay all losses and other expenses relating to such retained liabilities without regard to survival limitations, materiality thresholds, deductibles or caps on losses, there can be no guarantee that such arrangements will not require us to incur losses or other expenses as well. We depend on our key personnel. Our success depends on the efforts of our executive officers and other key personnel. None of our key personnel have employment agreements and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our executive officers. We cannot assure you that these key personnel will remain employed by us. While we believe that we could find replacements for these key personnel, the loss of their services could have a significant adverse effect on our financial performance. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our financial results. As a result of the expansion of Host’s international operations, currency exchange rate fluctuations could affect its results of operations and financial position. Host expects to generate an increasing portion of its revenue and its expenses in such foreign currencies as the Euro, the Canadian Dollar, the Mexican Peso, the British Pound, the Polish Zloty and the Chilean Peso. Although Host may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions to reduce its exposure to fluctuations in the value of these and other foreign currencies, these hedging transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. In addition, to the extent that Host is unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on Host’s results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, because Host’s consolidated financial results are reported in US Dollars, if Host generates revenues or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into US Dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those revenues or earnings. Applicable REIT laws may restrict certain business activities. As a REIT we are subject to various restrictions on our income, assets and activities. Business activities that could be impacted by applicable REIT laws include, but are not limited to, activities such as developing alternative uses of real estate, including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units. Due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will conduct certain business activities, including those mentioned above, in one or more of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. Our taxable REIT subsidiaries are taxable as regular C corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income at applicable corporate income tax rates. We may be unable to sell properties because real estate investments are inherently illiquid. Real estate properties generally cannot be sold quickly and, accordingly, we may not be able to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. The inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our debt. In addition, there are limitations under the federal income tax laws applicable to REITs that may limit our ability to recognize the full economic benefit from a sale of our assets. Our ground lease payments may increase faster than the revenues we receive on the hotels situated on the leased properties. As of December 31, 2008, 35 of our hotels are subject to third-party ground leases (encumbering all or a portion of the hotel). These ground leases generally require periodic increases in ground rent payments, which 26 are often based on economic indicators such as the Consumer Price Index. Our ability to pay ground rental could be adversely affected to the extent that our revenues do not increase at the same or a greater rate than the increases in rental payments under the ground leases. In addition, if we were to sell a hotel encumbered by a ground lease, the buyer would have to assume the ground lease, which may result in a lower sales price. Environmental problems are possible and can be costly. We believe that our properties comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise, however, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. The owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of asbestos. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings containing asbestos properly manage and maintain the asbestos, that they notify and train those who may come into contact with asbestos and that they undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, if asbestos would be disturbed during renovation or demolition of a building. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos fibers. Compliance with other government regulations can be costly. Our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act, building codes and regulations pertaining to fire safety. Compliance with those laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. These regulations may be changed from time to time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. Any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks of Ownership of Host’s Common Stock There are limitations on the acquisition of Host common stock and changes in control. Host’s charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of Host LP, and the Maryland General Corporation Law contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stockholders or Host LP unit holders or otherwise be in their best interests, including the following: • Restrictions on ownership and transfer of Host’s stock. To maintain Host’s qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of Host’s outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned in the last half of the taxable year, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals, which, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), may include certain entities. Because such ownership could jeopardize Host’s qualification as a REIT, a person cannot own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of an interest in a Host lessee, nor can a Host lessee of any partnership in which Host is a partner own, directly or by attribution, 10% or more of Host’s shares, in each case unless exempted by Host’s Board of Directors. Host’s charter prohibits ownership, directly or by virtue of the attribution provisions of the Code, by any person or persons acting as a group, of more than 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more 27 restrictive, of shares of Host’s outstanding common stock, preferred stock or any other stock, each considered as a separate class or series for this purpose. Together, these limitations are referred to as the “ownership limit.” Stock acquired or held in violation of the ownership limit will be transferred automatically to a trust for the benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the person who acquired the stock in violation of the ownership limit will not be entitled to any distributions thereon, to vote those shares of stock or to receive any proceeds from the subsequent sale of the stock in excess of the lesser of the price paid for the stock or the amount realized from the sale. A transfer of shares of Host’s stock to a person who, as a result of the transfer, violates the ownership limit may be void under certain circumstances, and, in any event, would deny that person any of the economic benefits of owning shares of Host’s stock in excess of the ownership limit. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if Host’s Board of Directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. • Removal of Board of Directors. Host’s charter provides that, except for any directors who may be elected by holders of a class or series of shares of capital stock other than common stock, directors may be removed only for cause and only by the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Vacancies on Host’s Board of Directors may be filled by the concurring vote of a majority of the remaining directors (except that a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors must be filled by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors) and, in the case of a vacancy resulting from the removal of a director by the stockholders, by at least two-thirds of votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. • Preferred shares; classification or reclassification of unissued shares of capital stock without stockholder approval. Host’s charter provides that the total number of shares of stock of all classes that we have authority to issue is 800,000,000, initially consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Host’s Board of Directors has the authority, without a vote of stockholders, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of stock, including common stock into preferred stock or vice versa, and to establish the preferences and rights of any preferred or other class or series of shares to be issued. Because the Board of Directors has the power to establish the preferences and rights of additional classes or series of stock without a stockholder vote, Host’s Board of Directors may give the holders of any class or series of stock preferences, powers and rights, including voting rights, senior to the rights of holders of existing stock. • Maryland business combination law. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified “business combinations,” including specified issuances of equity securities, between a Maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s then outstanding shares, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who at any time during the two year period prior to the date in question owned 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding stock of the corporation (each, an “interested stockholder”), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Thereafter, any of these specified business combinations must be approved by 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of outstanding voting shares and by two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of voting shares other than voting shares held by an interested stockholder unless, among other conditions, the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the Maryland General Corporation Law, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder. As a Maryland corporation, Host is subject to the Maryland business combination statute. The statute permits various exemptions from its provisions, including business combinations that are exempted by the board of directors before the time that the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. The Board of Directors has not granted any such exceptions at this time. • Maryland control share acquisition law. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by 28 a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. “Control shares” are voting shares which, if aggregated with all other voting shares previously acquired by the acquiror or over which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (1) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (2) one-third or more but less than a majority or (3) a majority or more of the voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained stockholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, subject to specified exceptions. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of Maryland law. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. • Merger, consolidation, share exchange and transfer of Host’s assets. Under Maryland law and Host’s charter, subject to the terms of any outstanding class or series of capital stock, we can merge with or into another entity, consolidate with one or more other entities, participate in a share exchange or transfer Host’s assets within the meaning of the Maryland General Corporation Law if approved (1) by Host’s Board of Directors in the manner provided in the Maryland General Corporation Law and (2) by Host’s stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, except that any merger of Host with or into a trust organized for the purpose of changing Host’s form of organization from a corporation to a trust requires only the approval of Host’s stockholders holding a majority of all votes entitled to be cast on the merger. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified mergers may be approved without a vote of stockholders and a share exchange is only required to be approved by a Maryland corporation by its Board of Directors if the corporation is the successor entity. Host’s voluntary dissolution also would require approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. • Certain charter and bylaw amendments. Host’s charter contains provisions relating to restrictions on transferability of Host’s stock, fixing the size of the Board of Directors within the range set forth in the charter, removal of directors, the filling of vacancies, exculpation and indemnification of directors, calling special stockholder meetings and others, all of which may be amended only by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors and approved by Host’s stockholders holding two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. Other charter amendments generally require approval of the Board and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter. As permitted under the Maryland General Corporation Law, Host’s bylaws provide that directors have the exclusive right to amend Host’s bylaws. These provisions may make it more difficult to amend Host’s charter and bylaws to alter the provisions described herein that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control or the acquisition of Host common stock, without the approval of the Board of Directors. Shares of Host’s common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Host’s common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for Host’s common stock. In addition, holders of units of limited partnership interest of Host LP, whose OP units may be redeemed, at Host’s election, in exchange for common stock, will be able to sell those shares freely, unless the person is our affiliate and resale of the affiliate’s shares is not covered by an effective registration statement. Further, a substantial number of shares of Host’s common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans, including shares of common stock reserved for options, or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of Host common stock or securities (other than OP units) that Host LP has issued that are exchangeable for shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2008, there are approximately 15.1 million OP units outstanding that are redeemable and $400 million principal amount of exchangeable senior debentures of Host LP issued in 2004 that could become exchangeable under certain conditions for approximately 25 million shares of Host common stock (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of 29 dividends to common stockholders). In 2007, we also issued an additional $600 million principal amount of exchangeable debentures, the principal portion of which is cash-settled, therefore, no shares would be issued unless our share price exceeded the exchange rate of the 2007 Debentures of $31.90 as of December 31, 2008. Moreover, additional shares of common stock issued by Host would be available in the future for sale in the public markets. We can make no prediction about the effect that future sales of common stock would have on the market price of Host common stock. Our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of Host’s common stock. We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily upon the market’s perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings, and is secondarily based upon the value of the underlying assets. For that reason, shares of Host’s common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of Host’s common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of Host’s common stock. Market interest rates may affect the price of shares of Host’s common stock. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher dividend rate. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of Host’s shares to decrease. Federal Income Tax Risks To qualify as a REIT, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs are required to distribute at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, regardless of available cash or outstanding obligations. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders with respect to each year at least 90% of our taxable income, excluding net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income and net capital gain for the taxable year, we will be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to a nondeductible 4% excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions made by us with respect to the calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income and 95% of our net capital gain for that year and any undistributed taxable income from prior years less excess distributions from prior years. We intend to make distributions, subject to the availability of cash and in compliance with any debt covenants, to our stockholders to comply with the distribution requirement and to avoid the imposition of a significant nondeductible 4% excise tax and will rely for this purpose on distributions from Host LP and its subsidiaries. We may incur a nominal nondeductible 4% excise tax for 2008, depending on the amount of our final 2008 taxable income. There are differences in timing between our recognition of taxable income and our receipt of cash available for distribution due to, among other things, the seasonality of the lodging industry and the fact that some taxable income will be “phantom” income, which is taxable income that is not matched by cash flow. Due to transactions entered into in years prior to Host’s conversion to a REIT, Host could recognize substantial amounts of “phantom” income. It is possible that these differences between taxable income and the receipt of related cash could require us to borrow funds or to issue additional equity to enable Host to meet the distribution requirement and, therefore, to maintain our REIT status, and to avoid the nondeductible 4% excise tax. In addition, because the REIT distribution requirement prevents Host from retaining earnings, we will generally be required to refinance debt at its maturity with additional debt or equity. It is possible that any of these sources of funds, if available at all, would not be sufficient to meet Host’s distribution and tax obligations. 30 As a result of an acquisition in 2006, Host owns, through Host LP, 100% of the outstanding common stock (and a portion of the outstanding preferred stock) of two entities that have elected to be treated as REITs. Each of these subsidiary REITs of Host will be subject to the same requirements that Host must satisfy in order to qualify as a REIT, including the distribution requirements described above. Adverse tax consequences would apply if Host or any of its subsidiary REITs fail to qualify as a REIT. We believe that Host has been organized and has operated in such a manner so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with our taxable year beginning January 1, 1999, and Host currently intends to continue to operate as a REIT during future years. In addition, Host owns, through Host LP, two entities as of December 31, 2008, that have elected to be treated as REITs. As the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited, no assurance can be provided that Host currently qualifies as a REIT or will continue to qualify as a REIT or that each of Host’s subsidiary REITs qualify as a REIT. If any of the subsidiary REITs were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that Host would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we (or the subsidiary REIT) could avail ourselves (itself) of certain relief provisions. New legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws with respect to an entity’s qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of its REIT qualification. If Host or any of the subsidiary REITs were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying REIT would not be allowed to take a deduction for distributions to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying REIT would not qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification was lost. Any determination that Host or one of our subsidiary REITs does not qualify as a REIT would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce the value of our common stock materially. The additional tax liability of Host or the subsidiary REIT for the year, or years, in which the relevant entity did not qualify as a REIT would reduce its net earnings available for investment, debt service or distributions to stockholders. Furthermore, the non-qualifying entity would no longer be required to make any distributions to stockholders as a condition to REIT qualification and all of its distributions to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary C corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that if Host were to fail to qualify as a REIT, Host’s stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on those dividends at capital gain rates and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case, to applicable limitations under the Code. Host’s failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under Host LP’s credit facility that could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due under the credit facility, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under Host LP’s outstanding debt securities. If our leases are not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, Host must satisfy two gross income tests, pursuant to which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, such as rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the hotel leases with our TRS subsidiaries, which currently constitutes substantially all of Host’s and each of our subsidiary REITs’ gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and must not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. We believe that the leases will be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will agree with this characterization. If the leases were not respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes, neither Host nor any of our subsidiary REITs would be able to satisfy either of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs and each would likely lose its REIT status. 31 If our affiliated lessees fail to qualify as taxable REIT subsidiaries, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs would fail to qualify as a REIT. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of Host will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. We lease substantially all of our hotels to our subsidiary that is taxable as a regular C corporation and that has elected to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary with respect to Host. So long as any affiliated lessee qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant.” We believe that our affiliated lessees have qualified and will continue to qualify, and that the taxable REIT subsidiaries of our subsidiary REITs have qualified and will continue to qualify, to be treated as taxable REIT subsidiaries for federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS will not challenge the status of a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in disqualifying any of our affiliated lessees (including the taxable REIT subsidiaries of our subsidiary REITs) from treatment as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it is possible that Host or a subsidiary REIT would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of its income would fail to qualify for the gross income tests. If Host or a subsidiary REIT failed to meet either the asset or gross income tests, each would likely lose its REIT status. Despite the REIT status of each of Host and its subsidiary REITs, we remain subject to various taxes. One of Host’s subsidiary REITs will be required to pay federal income tax at the highest regular corporate rate on “built-in gain” recognized as a result of any sale of a hotel asset before the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period of assets, including certain hotels acquired from Starwood and its affiliates in 2006. The total amount of gain on which the subsidiary REIT would be subject to corporate income tax if all of its built-in gain assets were sold in a taxable transaction prior to the expiration of the applicable 10-year holding period would be material to it. In addition, we expect that we could recognize other substantial deferred tax liabilities in the future without any corresponding receipt of cash. Notwithstanding their status as a REIT, Host and our subsidiaries (including our subsidiary REITs) will be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on their income and property. For example, Host and our subsidiary REITs will pay tax on certain types of income that is not distributed and will be subject to a 100% excise tax on transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm’s length basis. Moreover, the taxable REIT subsidiaries of Host and our subsidiary REITs are taxable as regular C corporations and will pay federal, state and local income tax on their net income at the applicable corporate rates, and foreign taxes to the extent they own assets or conduct operations in foreign jurisdictions. Host LP is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by Host. If the IRS were to challenge successfully Host LP’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, Host would cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that Host LP qualifies to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, it is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including Host, is required to pay tax on such partner’s allocable share of its income. No assurance can be provided, however, that the IRS will not challenge Host LP’s status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating Host LP as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, Host would fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. If Host LP fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or Host fails to qualify as a REIT, either failure would cause an event of default under Host LP’s credit facility that, in turn, could constitute an event of default under Host LP’s outstanding debt securities. Also, the failure of Host LP to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes would cause it to become subject to federal, state and foreign corporate income tax, which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including Host. 32 As a REIT, each of Host and its subsidiary REITs is subject to limitations on its ownership of debt and equity securities. Subject to certain exceptions, a REIT is generally prohibited from owning securities in any one issuer to the extent that (1) the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the REIT’s total assets, (2) the securities owned by the REIT represent more than 10% of the issuer’s outstanding voting securities, or (3) the REIT owns more than 10% of the value of the issuer’s outstanding securities. A REIT is permitted to own securities of a subsidiary in an amount that exceeds the 5% value test and the 10% vote or value test if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable REIT subsidiary. However, a REIT may not own securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% (25% for tax years beginning after July 30, 2008) of the value of the REIT’s total assets. If Host or any of its subsidiary REITs were to violate these ownership limitations, each would likely lose its REIT status. Each of Host or its subsidiary REITs may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. The federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% excise tax. Under existing law, whether property, including hotels, is held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is a question of fact that depends upon all of the facts and circumstances with respect to the particular transaction. We intend to hold our hotels for investment with a view to long-term appreciation, to engage in the business of acquiring and owning hotels and to make occasional sales of hotels consistent with our investment objectives. There can be no assurance, however, that the IRS might not contend that one or more of these sales are subject to the 100% excise tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 