ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider carefully the specific risks detailed in this “Risk Factors” section before making a decision to invest in our common stock, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected and we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs. Our consolidated financial statements as of August 31, 2011 have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. As of August 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $78.0 million. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and will have to raise substantial cash to fund our planned operations. Our recurring losses from operations and our stockholders’ deficit raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and, as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2011, with respect to this uncertainty. We will need to generate significant revenue or raise additional capital to continue to operate as a going concern. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. On September 13, 2011, we announced the closing of an underwritten public offering of shares of our common stock at a price to the public of $4.00 per share. The shares sold in the offering included 10.0 million shares of our common stock plus an additional 1.5 million shares of our common stock pursuant to the exercise by JMP Securities LLC, Canaccord Genuity Inc. and Cowen and Company, LLC, the underwriters for the offering, of the over-allotment option we granted to them. Total gross proceeds to us in the offering (including in connection with the sale of the shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of the over-allotment option) totaled $46.0 million, before underwriting discounts and commissions. The offering resulted in net proceeds to us of approximately $42.9 million after deduction of underwriting discounts and other offering expenses payable by us. We expect to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund our commercial and pre-commercial efforts, clinical and preclinical development programs and other general corporate activities. We believe our cash and cash equivalents as of September 30, 2011 of approximately $56.1 million, which include the net proceeds of approximately $42.9 million from our September 2011 public offering, will be sufficient to meet our obligations at least through the first calendar quarter of 2013. Even with the September 2011 offering, in the future, we may need to sell equity or debt securities to raise additional funds. The sale of additional securities is likely to result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. We may be unable to raise additional financing due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our research and development programs, and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise additional financing when needed, we may have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected and we may have to scale back our operations. While we are restricted from selling additional shares of our common stock under the September 2011 offering underwriting agreement until December 12, 2011, we may issue shares in connection with the exercise of warrants and/or stock options prior to that date. If we obtain additional financing, we expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of capital on our operations for the foreseeable future. The amount of additional capital we will need depends on many factors, including: • the progress, timing and scope of our preclinical studies and clinical trials; • the time and cost necessary to obtain regulatory approvals; • the time and cost necessary to develop commercial manufacturing processes, including quality systems, and to build or acquire manufacturing capabilities; • • the time and cost necessary to launch and successfully commercialize our product candidates, once approved; the time and cost necessary to respond to technological and market developments; and • any changes made or new developments in our existing collaborative, licensing and other corporate relationships or any new collaborative, licensing and other commercial relationships that we may establish. -13- Moreover, our fixed expenses such as rent, collaboration and license payments and other contractual commitments are substantial and will likely increase in the future. These fixed expenses are likely to increase because we expect to enter into: • additional licenses and collaborative agreements; • contracts for manufacturing, clinical and preclinical research, consulting, maintenance and administrative services; and • financing facilities. We are an early development stage company and have not generated any revenues to date and have a limited operating history. Some of our drug product candidates are in the concept stage and have not undergone significant testing in preclinical studies or any testing in later-stage clinical trials. Moreover, we cannot be certain that our research and development efforts will be successful or, if successful, that our drug product candidates will ever be approved for sale or generate commercial revenues. We have a limited relevant operating history upon which an evaluation of our performance and prospects can be made. We are subject to all of the business risks associated with a new enterprise, including, but not limited to, risks of unforeseen capital requirements, failure of drug product candidates either in preclinical testing or in clinical trials, failure to establish business relationships, and competitive disadvantages against larger and more established companies. The current disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms (or at all). The US credit markets have recently experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused financing to be unavailable in many cases and, even if available, have caused the cost of prospective financings to increase. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt markets, making financing terms for borrowers able to find financing less attractive, and in many cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. Continued uncertainty in the debt and equity markets may negatively impact our ability to access financing on favorable terms or at all. In addition, Federal legislation to deal with the current disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse affect on our ability to raise other types of financing. Even if we are able to develop our drug product candidates, we may not be able to receive regulatory approval, or if approved, we may not be able to generate significant revenues or successfully commercialize our products, which would adversely affect our financial results and financial condition and we would have to delay or terminate some or all of our research product development programs. Although our lead product candidate is in a later stage of development, most of our drug product candidates are at an early stage of development and will require extensive additional research and development, including preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as regulatory approvals, before we can market them. Since our inception in 1997, and since Raptor Pharmaceuticals Corp. began operations in 2005, both companies have dedicated substantially all of their resources to the research and development of their technologies and related compounds. All of our compounds currently are in preclinical or clinical development, and none have been submitted for marketing approval. Our preclinical compounds may not enter human clinical trials on a timely basis, if at all, and we may not develop any product candidates suitable for commercialization. We cannot predict if or when any of the drug product candidates we intend to develop will be approved for marketing. There are many reasons that we may fail in our efforts to develop our drug product candidates. These include: • the possibility that preclinical testing or clinical trials may show that our drug product candidates are ineffective and/or cause harmful side effects; • our drug product candidates may prove to be too expensive to manufacture or administer to patients; • our drug product candidates may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, or at all; • our drug product candidates, if approved, may not be produced in commercial quantities or at reasonable costs; • our drug product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial acceptance; • regulatory or governmental authorities may apply restrictions to our drug product candidates, which could adversely affect their commercial success; and • the proprietary rights of other parties may prevent us or our potential collaborative partners from marketing our drug product candidates. If we fail to develop our drug product candidates, our financial results and financial condition will be adversely affected, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research product development programs and may be forced to cease operations. -14- With respect to any of our product candidates for which we obtain FDA approval, we will be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. Additionally, any of our product candidates, if approved by the FDA, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products, which may adversely affect the value of our Company and our operating results. Any regulatory approvals that we obtain for our product candidates may also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. In addition, if the FDA approves a product candidate, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements may include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs or GCPs, and good laboratory practices. If we do not comply with the applicable regulations and requirements, the range of possible sanctions includes issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, suspension of marketing applications, and enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. The FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies can withdraw a product’s approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data we collect from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is delayed or withdrawn, the value of our Company and our operating results will be adversely affected. If we are limited in our ability to utilize acquired or licensed technologies, we may be unable to develop, out-license, market and sell our product candidates, which could cause delayed new product introductions, and/or adversely affect our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We have acquired and licensed certain proprietary technologies, discussed in the following risk factors, and plan to further license and acquire various patents and proprietary technologies owned by third parties. These agreements are critical to our product development programs. These agreements may be terminated, and all rights to the technologies and product candidates will be lost, if we fail to perform our obligations under these agreements and licenses in accordance with their terms including, but not limited to, our ability to make all payments due under such agreements. Our inability to continue to maintain these technologies could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, our business strategy depends on the successful development of these licensed and acquired technologies into commercial products, and, therefore, any limitations on our ability to utilize these technologies may impair our ability to develop, out-license, market and sell our product candidates, delay new product introductions, and/or adversely affect our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. If the purchase or licensing agreements we entered into are terminated, we will lose the right to use or exploit our owned and licensed technologies, in which case we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected and we may have to cease our operations. We entered into an asset purchase agreement with BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc., or BioMarin, for the purchase of intellectual property related to the RAP, technology, a licensing agreement with Washington University for mesoderm development protein, or Mesd, a licensing agreement with UCSD for RP103/RP104, a licensing agreement with Yeda Research and Development Company Limited, or Yeda, for patents originating from Weizmann Institute of Technology and Niigata University, related to use of transglutaminase inhibitors to treat neurological diseases, and University of Arizona, or UA, for a pending patent related to a diagnostic technology for metabolic liver diseases. BioMarin, Washington University, UCSD, Yeda and UA may terminate their respective agreements with us upon the occurrence of certain events, including if we enter into certain bankruptcy proceedings or if we materially breach our payment obligations and fail to remedy the breach within the permitted cure periods. Although we are not currently involved in any bankruptcy proceedings or in breach of these agreements, there is a risk that we may be in the future, giving BioMarin, Washington University, UCSD, Yeda and UA the right to terminate their respective agreements with us. We have the right to terminate these agreements at any time by giving prior written notice. If the BioMarin, Washington University, UCSD, Yeda or UA agreements are terminated by either party, we would be forced to assign -15- back to BioMarin, in the case of the BioMarin agreement, all of our rights, title and interest in and to the intellectual property related to the RAP technology, would lose our rights to the Mesd technology, in the case of the Washington University agreement, would lose our rights to RP103/RP104, in the case of UCSD, would lose our rights to the Weizmann and Niigata patents in the case of Yeda, and would lose our rights to the liver diagnostic technology in the case of UA. Under such circumstances, we would have no further right to use or exploit the patents, copyrights or trademarks in those respective technologies. If this happens, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected, and we may have to cease our operations. If we fail to compete successfully with respect to acquisitions, joint venture and other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop our drug product candidates. Our competitors compete with us to attract established biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies or organizations for acquisitions, joint ventures, licensing arrangements or other collaborations. Collaborations include licensing proprietary technology from, and other relationships with, academic research institutions. If our competitors successfully enter into partnering arrangements or license agreements with academic research institutions, we will then be precluded from pursuing those specific opportunities. Since each of these opportunities is unique, we may not be able to find a substitute. Other companies have already begun many drug development programs, which may target diseases that we are also targeting, and have already entered into partnering and licensing arrangements with academic research institutions, reducing the pool of available opportunities. Universities and public and private research institutions also compete with us. While these organizations primarily have educational or basic research objectives, they may develop proprietary technology and acquire patents that we may need for the development of our drug product candidates. We will attempt to license this proprietary technology, if available. These licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to compete successfully with respect to acquisitions, joint venture and other collaboration opportunities, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. If we do not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect, the credibility of our management and our technology may be adversely affected and, as a result, the price of our common stock may decline. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory and other product development goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the expected timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones will be based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. If we do not meet these milestones as publicly announced, our stockholders may lose confidence in our ability to meet these milestones and, as a result, the price of our common stock may decline. Our product development programs will require substantial additional future funding which could impact our operational and financial condition. With respect to most of our drug product candidates, it will take several years before we are able to develop them into marketable drug product candidates, if at all. Our product development programs will require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: • conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies; • establish pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; and • establish and develop quality control, regulatory, marketing, sales, finance and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: • the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; • the scope and results of preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • our ability to obtain, and the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • our ability to prosecute, maintain, and enforce, and the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish additional collaborations; • changes in our existing collaborations; • the cost of manufacturing scale-up; and • the effectiveness of our commercialization activities. -16- We base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include the success of our research initiatives, regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as negotiations with potential strategic partners and other factors. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements as they determine such one-time events as the receipt or payment of major milestones and other payments. Significant additional funds will be required to support our operations and if we are unable to obtain them on favorable terms, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our drug product programs, to sell some or all of our technology or assets, to merge with another entity or cease operations. Uncertainties regarding healthcare reform and third-party reimbursement may impair our ability to raise capital, form collaborations and if any of our product candidates become marketable, sell such products. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payers to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means may harm our business. For example, in some foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of healthcare products is subject to government control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government control. The implementation or even the announcement of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals or reforms could harm our business if any of our product candidates become marketable by reducing the prices we or our partners are able to charge for our products (if marketable), impeding our ability to achieve profitability, raise capital or form collaborations. Market acceptance and sales of any of our product candidates that we may develop will depend in large part on global reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the US and other key international markets. Successful commercialization of our products will depend in part on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of our products. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In particular, in the US, private health insurers and other third-party payers often provide reimbursement for treatments based on the level at which the government (through the Medicare or Medicaid programs) provides reimbursement for such treatments. In the US, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the US and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales, if approved, and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. For our product candidates, we will not know what the reimbursement rates will be until we are ready to market the product and we actually negotiate the rates. If we are unable to obtain sufficiently high reimbursement rates for our products, they may not be commercially viable. Government health care reform could increase our costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the US, primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. Several provisions of the new law, which have varying effective dates, may affect us, including our costs. For example, the Medicaid rebate rate was increased and the volume of rebated drugs has been expanded to include beneficiaries in Medicaid managed care organizations. The PPACA also expands the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs), including the creation of new penalties for non-compliance and includes a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or “donut hole.” The law also revised the definition of “average manufacturer price” for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of the Medicaid drug rebates paid to states. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with health care practitioners. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of the PPACA cannot be known until these provisions are implemented and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact our product candidates. We will continue to evaluate the PPACA, as amended, the implementation of regulations or guidance related to various provisions of the PPACA by federal agencies, as well as trends and changes that may be encouraged by the legislation and that may potentially have an impact on our business over time. -17- If we fail to demonstrate efficacy in our preclinical studies and clinical trials our future business prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially adversely affected. The success of our development and commercialization efforts will be greatly dependent upon our ability to demonstrate drug product candidate efficacy in preclinical studies, as well as in clinical trials. Preclinical studies involve testing drug product candidates in appropriate non-human disease models to demonstrate efficacy and safety. Regulatory agencies evaluate these data carefully before they will approve clinical testing in humans. If certain preclinical data reveals potential safety issues or the results are inconsistent with an expectation of the drug product candidate’s efficacy in humans, the regulatory agencies may require additional more rigorous testing, before allowing human clinical trials. This additional testing will increase program expenses and extend timelines. We may decide to suspend further testing on our drug product candidates or technologies if, in the judgment of our management and advisors, the preclinical test results do not support further development. Moreover, success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and we cannot be sure that the results of later clinical trials will replicate the results of prior clinical trials and preclinical testing. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our drug product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a drug product candidate and may delay development of other drug product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our preclinical testing or clinical trials will delay the filing of our investigational new drug application, or IND, and new drug application, or NDA, as applicable, with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our drug product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, some of our clinical trials will involve small patient populations. Because of the small sample size, the results of these early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. Following successful preclinical testing, drug product candidates will need to be tested in a clinical development program to provide data on safety and efficacy prior to becoming eligible for product approval and licensure by regulatory agencies. From first clinical trial through product approval can take at least eight years, on average in the US If any of our future clinical development drug product candidates become the subject of problems, including those related to, among others: • efficacy or safety concerns with the drug product candidates, even if not justified; • unexpected side-effects; • regulatory proceedings subjecting the drug product candidates to potential recall; • publicity affecting doctor prescription or patient use of the drug product candidates; • pressure from competitive products; or • introduction of more effective treatments, our ability to sustain our development programs will become critically compromised. For example, efficacy or safety concerns may arise, whether or not justified, that could lead to the suspension or termination of our clinical programs. Each clinical phase is designed to test attributes of drug product candidates and problems that might result in the termination of the entire clinical plan can be revealed at any time throughout the overall clinical program. The failure to demonstrate efficacy in our clinical trials would have a material adverse effect on our future business prospects, financial condition and operating results. If we do not obtain the support of new, and maintain the support of existing, key scientific collaborators, it may be difficult to establish products using our technologies as a standard of care for various indications, which may limit our revenue growth and profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We will need to establish relationships with additional leading scientists and research institutions. We believe that such relationships are pivotal to establishing products using our technologies as a standard of care for various indications. Although we have established a Medical and Scientific Advisory Board and research collaborations, there is no assurance that our Advisory Board members and our research collaborators will continue to work with us or that we will be able to attract additional research partners. If we are not able to maintain existing or establish new scientific relationships to assist in our research and development, we may not be able to successfully develop our drug product candidates. If the manufacturers upon whom we rely fail to produce in the volumes and quality that we require on a timely basis, or to comply with stringent regulations applicable to pharmaceutical manufacturers, we may face delays in the development and commercialization of, or be unable to meet demand for, our products, if any, and may lose potential revenues. We do not currently manufacture our drug product candidates and do not currently plan to develop the capacity to do so. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties -18- in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes, unstable political environments at foreign facilities or financial difficulties. If these manufacturers or key suppliers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to timely launch any potential product candidate, if approved, would be jeopardized. In addition, all manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical products must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA, through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of our third party manufacturer and key supplier facilities as part of their review of any of our NDAs. If our third party manufacturers and key suppliers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval, particularly if these sites are supplying single source ingredients required for the manufacture of any potential product. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Furthermore, regulatory qualifications of manufacturing facilities are applied on the basis of the specific facility being used to produce supplies. As a result, if one of the manufacturers that we rely on shifts production from one facility to another, the new facility must go through a complete regulatory qualification and be approved by regulatory authorities prior to being used for commercial supply. Our manufacturers may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to a our third party manufacturer’s or key supplier’s failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity for some of our drug product candidates, our competitors may sell products to treat the same conditions and our revenues will be reduced. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop some drugs that may be eligible for FDA and European Union, or EU, orphan drug designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined as a patient population of less than 200,000 in the US The company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a given rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the stated condition for a period of seven years. Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Similar regulations are available in the EU with a 10-year period of market exclusivity. Because the extent and scope of patent protection for some of our drug products is particularly limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for our products that are eligible for orphan drug designation. For eligible drugs, we plan to rely on the exclusivity period under Orphan Drug Act designation to maintain a competitive position. If we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our drug products that do not have patent protection, our competitors may then sell the same drug to treat the same condition and our revenues will be reduced. Even though we have obtained orphan drug designation for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, the potential treatment of HD and the potential treatment of Batten Disease and even if we obtain orphan drug designation for our future drug product candidates, due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any orphan indication. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug, nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. The priority review for our drug product candidates, if obtained, may not actually lead to a faster review process and a delay in the review process or in the approval of our products will delay revenue from the sale of the products and will increase the capital necessary to fund these product development programs. Although we intend to request six-month priority review from the FDA and EMA for our eligible drug product candidates, the FDA may not grant it. Without priority review, the FDA and EMA review timeline could be at least 10 to 12 months. Under the FDA policies, a drug candidate is eligible for priority review from the time a complete NDA is accepted for filing, if the drug candidate provides a significant improvement compared to marketed drugs in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. A lengthier review process will delay revenue from the sale of products and will increase the capital necessary to fund these product development programs. -19- Because the target patient populations for some of our products are small, we must achieve significant market share and obtain high per-patient prices for our products to achieve profitability. Our clinical development of RP103 targets diseases with small patient populations, including cystinosis and HD. If we are successful in developing RP103 and receive regulatory approval to market RP103 for a disease with a small patient population, the per-patient prices at which we could sell RP103 for these indications are likely to be relatively high in order for us to recover our development costs and achieve profitability. We believe that we will need to market RP103 for these indications worldwide to achieve significant market penetration of this product. We may not be able to market or generate sales of our products to the extent anticipated. Assuming that we are successful in developing our drug product candidates and receive regulatory clearances to market our products, our ability to successfully penetrate the market and generate sales of those products may be limited by a number of factors, including the following: • Certain of our competitors in the field have already received regulatory approvals for and have begun marketing similar products in the US, the EU, Japan and other territories, which may result in greater physician awareness of their products as compared to ours. • Information from our competitors or the academic community indicating that current products or new products are more effective than our future products could, if and when it is generated, impede our market penetration or decrease our future market share. • Physicians may be reluctant to switch from existing treatment methods, including traditional therapy agents, to our future products. • The price for our future products, as well as pricing decisions by our competitors, may have an effect on our revenues. • Our future revenues may diminish if third-party payers, including private healthcare coverage insurers and healthcare maintenance organizations, do not provide adequate coverage or reimbursement for our future products. There are many difficult challenges associated with developing proteins that can be used to transport therapeutics across the blood-brain barrier. Our RAP technology has a potential clinical use as a drug transporter through the blood-brain barrier. However, we do not know that our technology will work or work safely. Many groups and companies have attempted to solve the critical medical challenge of developing an efficient method of transporting therapeutic proteins from the blood stream into the brain. Unfortunately, these efforts to date have met with little success due in part to a lack of adequate understanding of the biology of the blood-brain barrier and to the enormous scientific complexity of the transport process itself. In the research and development of our RAP technology, we will certainly face many of the same issues that have caused these earlier attempts to fail. It is possible that: • We or any future collaborator/licensee will not be able to produce enough RAP drug product candidates for testing; • the pharmacokinetics, or where the drug distributes in the body, of our RAP drug product candidates will preclude sufficient binding to the targeted receptors on the blood-brain barrier; • the targeted receptors are not transported across the blood-brain barrier; • other features of the blood-brain barrier, apart from the cells, block access molecules to brain tissue after transport across the cells; • the targeted receptors are expressed on the blood-brain barrier at densities insufficient to allow adequate transport of our RAP drug product candidates into the brain; • targeting of the selected receptors induces harmful side-effects which prevent their use as drugs; or • that we or our collaborator/licensee’s RAP drug product candidates cause unacceptable side-effects. Any of these conditions may preclude the use of RAP or RAP fusion compounds from potentially treating diseases affecting the brain. If our competitors succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than our own, or if scientific developments change our understanding of the potential scope and utility of our drug product candidates, then our technologies and future drug product candidates may be rendered less competitive. -20- We face significant competition from industry participants that are pursuing similar technologies that we are pursuing and are developing pharmaceutical products that are competitive with our drug product candidates. Nearly all of our industry competitors have greater capital resources, larger overall research and development staffs and facilities, and a longer history in drug discovery and development, obtaining regulatory approval and pharmaceutical product manufacturing and marketing than we do. With these additional resources, our competitors may be able to respond to the rapid and significant technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries faster than we can. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Rapid technological development, as well as new scientific developments, may result in our compounds, drug product candidates or processes becoming obsolete before we can recover any of the expenses incurred to develop them. For example, changes in our understanding of the appropriate population of patients who should be treated with a targeted therapy like we are developing may limit the drug’s market potential if it is subsequently demonstrated that only certain subsets of patients should be treated with the targeted therapy. Our reliance on third parties, such as collaborators, university laboratories, contract manufacturing organizations and contract or clinical research organizations, may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, preclinical testing or clinical trials if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we may engage university laboratories, other biotechnology companies or contract or clinical manufacturing organizations to manufacture drug material for us to be used in preclinical and clinical testing and collaborators and contract or clinical research organizations to conduct and manage preclinical studies and clinical trials. If we engage these organizations to help us with our preclinical and clinical programs, many important aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If any of these organizations we may engage in the future fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform preclinical testing and/or clinical trials in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our clinical trials, as well as commercialization of any of our drug product candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials, regulatory filings and the potential market approval of our drug product candidates. Companies and universities that have licensed product candidates to us for research, clinical development and marketing are sophisticated competitors that could develop similar products to compete with our products which could reduce our future revenues. Licensing our product candidates from other companies, universities or individuals does not always prevent them from developing non-identical but competitive products for their own commercial purposes, nor from pursuing patent protection in areas that are competitive with us. While we seek patent protection for all of our owned and licensed product candidates, our licensors or assignors who created these product candidates are experienced scientists and business people who may continue to do research and development and seek patent protection in the same areas that led to the discovery of the product candidates that they licensed or assigned to us. By virtue of the previous research that led to the discovery of the drugs or product candidates that they licensed or assigned to us, these companies, universities, or individuals may be able to develop and market competitive products in less time than might be required to develop a product with which they have no prior experience and may reduce our future revenues from such product candidates. Any product revenues could be reduced by imports from countries where our product candidates are available at lower prices. Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our potential products in the US, our sales in the US may be reduced if our products are imported into the US from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. In the US, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico. There have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the US. If such legislation were enacted, our potential future revenues could be reduced. The use of any of our drug product candidates in clinical trials may expose us to liability claims. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our drug product candidates. While we are in clinical stage testing, our drug product candidates could potentially harm people or allegedly harm people and we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Some of the patients who participate in clinical trials are already critically ill when they enter a trial. The waivers we obtain may not be enforceable and may not protect us from liability or the costs of product liability litigation. Although we currently carry a $5.0 million clinical product liability insurance policy, it may not be sufficient to cover future claims. We currently do not have any clinical or product liability claims or threats of claims filed against us. -21- Our future success depends, in part, on the continued service of our management team. Our success is dependent in part upon the availability of our senior executive officers, including our Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Christopher M. Starr, our Chief Scientific Officer, Dr. Todd C. Zankel, our Chief Financial Officer, Kim R. Tsuchimoto, Ted Daley, the President of our clinical development subsidiary, Dr. Patrice P. Rioux, Chief Medical Officer of our clinical development subsidiary, Patrick Reichenberger, Vice President, Commercial Operations of our clinical development subsidiary and Kathlene Powell, Vice President, Quality Operations of our clinical development subsidiary. The loss or unavailability to us of any of these individuals or key research and development personnel, and particularly if lost to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We have no key-man insurance on any of our employees. There is intense competition for qualified scientists and managerial personnel from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic and government organizations, research institutions and other entities. In addition, we will rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors will be employed by other employers or be self-employed, and will have commitments to or consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain key employees and/or consultants. If key employees terminate their employment, or if insufficient numbers of employees are retained to maintain effective operations, our development activities might be adversely affected, management’s attention might be diverted from managing our operations to hiring suitable replacements, and our business might suffer. In addition, we might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees that terminate, or that are terminated from, their employment with us and we may not be able to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, which could negatively impact our product candidate development timelines and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to manage our growth. We expect to continue to grow, which could strain our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. With the potential commercial launch of RP103 for cystinosis, the continued progress of our clinical-stage programs and with our plan to in-license and acquire additional clinical-stage product candidates, we will be required to retain experienced personnel in the commercial, regulatory, clinical and medical areas over the next several years. Also, as our preclinical pipeline diversifies through the acquisition or in-licensing of new molecules, we will need to hire additional scientists to supplement our existing scientific expertise over the next several years. Our staff, financial resources, systems, procedures or controls may be inadequate to support our operations and our management may be unable to take advantage of future market opportunities or manage successfully our relationships with third parties if we are unable to adequately manage our anticipated growth and the integration of new personnel. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facility and equipment, or that of our third-party manufacturers or single-source suppliers, which could materially impair our ability to continue our product development programs. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We and the third-party manufacturers with whom we contract and our single-source suppliers of raw materials are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, floods, power loss and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to continue our product development programs, could be seriously, or potentially completely impaired. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. We will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations and our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with such laws and regulations. We face burdens relating to the recent trend toward stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards. Legislation or regulations such as Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as other rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, follow the trend of imposing stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards have led to an increase in the costs of compliance for companies similar to us, including increases in consulting, auditing and legal fees. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to comply with these new laws and regulations may impact market perception of our financial condition and could materially -22- harm our business. Additionally, it is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in law. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. In the future, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. We may be required to suspend, repeat or terminate our clinical trials if they do not meet regulatory requirements, the results are negative or inconclusive, or if the trials are not well designed, which may result in significant negative repercussions on our business and financial condition. Before regulatory approval for any potential product can be obtained, we must undertake extensive clinical testing on humans to demonstrate the tolerability and efficacy of the product, both on our own terms, and as compared to the other principal drugs on the market that have the same therapeutic indication. We cannot provide assurance that we will obtain authorization to permit product candidates that are already in the preclinical development phase to enter the human clinical testing phase. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that any authorized preclinical or clinical testing will be completed successfully within any specified time period by us, or without significant additional resources or expertise to those originally expected to be necessary. We cannot provide assurance that such testing will show potential products to be safe and efficacious or that any such product will be approved for a specific indication. Further, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be indicative of the results that will be obtained in later-stage clinical trials. In addition, we or regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials at any time on the basis that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Completion of clinical tests depends on, among other things, the number of patients available for testing, which is a function of many factors, including the number of patients with the relevant conditions, the nature of the clinical testing, the proximity of patients to clinical testing centers, the eligibility criteria for tests as well as competition with other clinical testing programs involving the same patient profile but different treatments. We will rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to assist us in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results and manage test requests, which may result in delays or failure to complete trials, if the third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards. A failure by us or such third parties to keep to the terms of a product program development for any particular product candidate or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the envisaged time frame could have significant negative repercussions on our business and financial condition. If we fail to establish and maintain collaborations or if our partners do not perform, we may be unable to develop and commercialize our product candidates, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. We have entered into collaborative arrangements with third parties to develop and/or commercialize product candidates. Additional collaborations might be necessary in order for us to fund our research and development activities and third-party manufacturing arrangements, seek and obtain regulatory approvals and successfully commercialize existing and future product candidates. If we fail to maintain the existing collaborative arrangements held by us or fail to enter into additional collaborative arrangements, the number of product candidates from which we could receive future revenues would decline. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products: -23- • collaborative arrangements might not be on terms favorable to us; • disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; • we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates, and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our product candidates, or may not perform their obligations as expected; • partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; • agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; • business combinations or significant changes in a partner’s business strategy might adversely affect that partner’s willingness or ability to complete their obligations to us; and • the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to negotiate future collaboration agreements or that those currently in existence will make it possible for us to fulfill our objectives. We may not complete our clinical trials in the time expected, which could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. Although for planning purposes we forecast the commencement and completion of clinical trials, the actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient enrollment. Clinical trials involving our product candidates may not commence nor be completed as forecasted. In certain circumstances we will rely on academic institutions or clinical research organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our product candidates. We will have less control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials than if we conducted them entirely on our own. These trials may not commence or be completed as we expect. They may not be conducted successfully. Failure to commence or complete, or delays in, any of our planned clinical trials could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates and harm our business and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. If we fail to keep pace with rapid technological change in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, our product candidates could become obsolete, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. Biotechnology and related pharmaceutical technology have undergone and are subject to rapid and significant change. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Any compounds, products or processes that we develop may become obsolete before we recover any expenses incurred in connection with developing such products, which may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively and our business and financial prospects may be harmed. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Patent protection may not be available for some of the drug product candidates we are developing. If we must spend significant time and money protecting our patents, designing around patents held by others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business and financial prospects may be harmed. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. We own or license patent applications related to certain of our drug product candidates. However, these patent applications do not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including the following: -24- · We do not know whether our patent applications will result in issued patents. For example, we may not have developed a method for treating a disease before others developed similar methods. · Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us. Competitors may also claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore cannot practice our technology as claimed under our patents, if issued. Competitors may also contest our patents, if issued, by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our patents, if issued, are not valid for a number of reasons. If a court agrees, we would lose that patent. As a company, we have no meaningful experience with competitors interfering with our patents or patent applications. · Enforcing patents is expensive and may absorb significant time of our management. Management would spend less time and resources on developing drug product candidates, which could increase our operating expenses and delay product programs. · Receipt of a patent may not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. · In addition, competitors also seek patent protection for their technology. Due to the number of patents in our field of technology, we cannot be certain that we do not infringe on those patents or that we will not infringe on patents granted in the future. If a patent holder believes our drug product candidate infringes on its patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology. If someone else claims we infringe on their technology, we would face a number of issues, including the following: · Defending a lawsuit takes significant time and can be very expensive. · If a court decides that our drug product candidate infringes on the competitor’s patent, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement. · A court may prohibit us from selling or licensing the drug product candidate unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us. The patent holder is not required to grant us a license. If a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents. · Redesigning our drug product candidates so we do not infringe may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. It is also unclear whether our trade secrets are adequately protected. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the US are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may also support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational institutions. These research partners may be unwilling to grant us any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations prior to entering into the relationship. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in our product development efforts while we attempt to design around other patents or even be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling drug product candidates requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or drug product candidates developed in collaboration with other parties. If our agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners fail to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets, it could have a significant adverse effect on us. We have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the US. -25- Risks Related to Our Common Stock There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market, and the issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of financing acquisitions and the expansion of our business, may have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares of our common stock could cause some of our stockholders to sell their common stock, thus causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market or the private placement of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If our common stock price declines, it may be more difficult for us to or we may be unable to raise additional capital. In addition, future sales of substantial amounts of our currently outstanding common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sales, will have on the trading price of our common stock. In December 2009, we entered into a definitive securities purchase agreement or the Direct Offering Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 17, 2009, with 33 investors, collectively, the Direct Offering Investors, with respect to the offering of Units, whereby, on an aggregate basis, the Direct Offering Investors agreed to purchase 3,747,558 Units for a negotiated purchase price of $2.00 per Unit for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $7.5 million. Each Unit consists of one share of our common stock, one Series A Warrant exercisable for 0.5 of a share of our common stock and one Series B Warrant exercisable for 0.5 of a share of our common stock. The Series A Warrants are exercisable during the period beginning on June 20, 2010 and ending on December 22, 2014. The Series B Warrants were exercisable during the period beginning on June 20, 2010 and ended on June 22, 2011. The Investor Warrants have a per share exercise price of $2.45. In connection with this offering we paid a placement agent cash compensation equaled to 6.5% of the gross proceeds or $487,183 plus a five-year warrant at an exercise price of $2.50 per share for the purchase of up to 74,951 shares of our common stock, on the same terms as the investor warrants described above. As of October 31, 2011, the Series B Warrants expired and 100% of the Series B Warrants were exercised prior to expiration, generating aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $4.6 million in exchange for the issuance of 1,873,779 shares of our common stock. In addition, in June 2011, placement agent warrants were exercised for gross proceeds of $187,378 in exchange for the issuance of 74,951 shares of our common stock. As of October 31, 2011, there were Series A Warrants to purchase 1,556,250 shares of our common stock outstanding. In August 2010, we entered into the 2010 Private Placement Purchase Agreements with the 2010 Private Placement Investors for the private placement of our common stock and warrants to purchase our common stock, at a purchase price of $3.075 per unit, with each unit comprised of one share of common stock and a warrant to purchase one share of common stock. We issued and sold an aggregate of 4,897,614 units, comprised of an aggregate of 4,897,614 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to 4,897,614 shares of our common stock for gross proceeds of approximately $15.1 million. Each warrant, exercisable for 5 years from August 12, 2010, has an exercise price of $3.075 per share. As of October 31, 2011, warrants to purchase 357,724 shares were exercised for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $1.1 million. The balance of warrants to purchase 4,637,842 shares of our common stock remain outstanding as of September 30, 2011. Our executive officers and our board of directors own, in the aggregate, 1,744,628 shares, or approximately 3.7% of our outstanding common stock as of October 31, 2011. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by such officers and directors in the public trading market, whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, or the perception that these sales may occur, could also have a significant effect on volatility and the trading price of our common stock. -26- As of October 31, 2011, there were (i) outstanding warrants to purchase 6,934,535 shares of our common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $2.96 per share issued in connection with the transactions described above and other equity issuances, (ii) outstanding options to purchase 5,546,014 shares of our common stock outstanding under our 2010 and 2006 Raptor stock option plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $3.84, (iii) options to purchase 154,446 shares of our common stock outstanding under our TorreyPines Therapeutics stock option plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $86.42 and (iv) 1,753,508 shares of our common stock available for issuance under our 2010 Raptor Pharmaceutical stock option plan. The shares issuable under our stock option plans will be available for immediate resale in the public market. The shares issuable under the warrants are available for immediate resale in the public market. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Future milestone payments, as more fully set forth under “Contractual Obligations with Thomas E. Daley (assignee of the dissolved Convivia, Inc.)” and “Contractual Obligations with Former Encode Securityholders” discussed in certain of our periodic filings with the SEC relating to our acquisition of the Convivia assets and merger with Encode will result in dilution. We may be required to make additional contingent payments of up to 699,369 shares of our common stock, in the aggregate, under the terms of our acquisition of Convivia assets and merger with Encode, based on milestones related to certain future marketing and development approvals obtained with respect to Convivia and Encode product candidates. The issuance of any of these shares will result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. These stock issuances and other future issuances of common stock underlying unexpired and unexercised warrants have and will result in, significant dilution to our stockholders. In connection with other collaborations, joint ventures, license agreements or future financings that we may enter into in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, and the value of the securities issued may be substantial and create additional dilution to our existing and future common stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, investors will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. Investors seeking dividend income or liquidity should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. Investors seeking dividend income or liquidity should not invest in our common stock. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders, and the trading in our common stock may be limited. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our operating performance does and will continue to significantly affect the market price of our common stock. We face a number of risks including those described herein, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The NASDAQ Capital Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of biopharmaceutical development companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. Market prices for securities of early-stage pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile and trading in such securities has often been limited. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: -27- · the results of our current and any future clinical trials of our drug candidates; · the results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned clinical trials of our preclinical drug candidates; · the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key strategic alliance agreements; · the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our drug candidates; · the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; · failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our research and development expenditures; · the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; · issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or any approved products; · the loss of key employees; · the introduction of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock; · future sales of our common stock; · changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation can result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. Our stock is a penny stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations and the FINRA’s sales practice requirements, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Our common stock is a penny stock. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and institutional accredited investors. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker- dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. -28- In addition to the “penny stock” rules promulgated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, the FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, in our stockholder rights plan and in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or complicate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law as currently in effect may make a change in control of our Company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock, none of which are issued or outstanding. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter contains provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party, including: a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; the fact that stockholder meetings must be called by our board of directors; and provisions requiring stockholders to provide advance notice of proposals. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. We are a party to a stockholder rights plan, also referred to as a poison pill, which is intended to deter a hostile takeover of us by making such proposed acquisition more expensive and less desirable to the potential acquirer. The stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 