ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider, among other potential risks, the following risk factors as well as all other information set forth or referred to in this report before purchasing shares of our common stock. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. If any of the following events or outcomes actually occurs, our business operating results and financial condition would likely suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to purchase our common stock. There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have suffered recurring losses from operations and had an accumulated deficit of $175.5 million, a stockholder’s deficiency of $4.2 million and a working capital deficit of $12.8 million that raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Also, as described in more detail below and in Note 8 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, we are in default of our Credit Agreement. Additionally, Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements describes a proposed transaction to sell substantially all of the Woodridge assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the Credit Agreement. Should the sale be consummated, we would be left with no operating assets to generate cash flows. These factors, among others, raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are currently in default of the terms of our Credit Agreement. In connection with the acquisition of the Woodridge Labs business on March 9, 2006, we entered into a Credit Agreement, which was subsequently amended in March 2007, April 2007 and November 2007. The Credit Agreement originally consisted of a $10.0 million fully-drawn term loan, of which approximately $9.5 million was outstanding at December 31, 2007, and a four-year $5.0 million revolving credit facility. Under the terms of the April 2007 amendment, the revolving credit facility was reduced to $2.75 million, which was fully drawn at December 31, 2007. Under the terms of the November 2007 amendment, we obtained a bridge loan credit facility aggregating $2.5 million. The bridge loan facility must be repaid with cash balances in excess of $500,000 through the final maturity of May 31, 2008. Outstanding borrowings under the term loan must be repaid in four quarterly payments, commencing March 31, 2008, with a final payment due on March 31, 2009, the maturity date of the term loan. The maturity date for the revolving credit facility is also March 31, 2009. The Credit Agreement, as amended, also contains certain restrictive financial covenants, including minimum consolidated EBITDA, minimum purchase order levels and maximum corporate overhead, as defined therein. On March 31, 2008, an installment of principal of the term loan in an aggregate amount equal to $250,000 became due and payable under the Credit Agreement. The March 31 Installment remains unpaid. Additionally, we have furnished the lenders of the Credit Agreement with financial information showing that we failed to comply with the minimum consolidated EBITDA financial covenant applicable to the measurement period ending January 31, 2008. As a consequence of the failure to pay the March 31 Installment, and the failure to comply with this financial covenant, events of default have occurred under the Credit Agreement. No cure periods or grace periods are applicable to these events of default. The events of default have not been waived and are continuing under the Credit Agreement. Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements describes a proposed transaction to satisfy the obligations under the Credit Agreement, but we cannot be assured that the proposed transaction will be consummated on the terms described therein or at all. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Nextera is a holding company with no business operations of its own. Nextera’s only material assets are the outstanding capital stock of Woodridge, Nextera’s wholly owned subsidiary, through which Nextera conducts its business operations. Nextera is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends and distributions from, Woodridge to pay Nextera’s expenses incidental to being a public holding company. Woodridge may not generate sufficient cash flows to pay dividends or distribute funds to Nextera because, for example, Woodridge may not generate sufficient cash or net income or the proposed transaction described in Note 15 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements may result in the sale of substantially all of the Woodridge assets. All of the shares of Woodridge stock are pledged and substantially all of Woodridge’s assets are subject to liens to secure obligations under the Credit Agreement. All of the shares of the capital stock of Woodridge held by Nextera are pledged and substantially all of Woodridge’s assets are subject to liens to secure Woodridge’s obligations under the Credit Agreement. A foreclosure upon the shares of Woodridge’s common stock or its assets would result in us being unable to continue our operations and would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 Our stock price may be volatile and you could lose all or part of your investment. We expect that, due to, among other things, the risks described herein, the market price of our common stock will continue to be volatile. The market price for our common stock may also be affected by our ability to meet investors’ or securities analysts’ expectations. Any failure to meet these expectations, even slightly, may result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, because our common stock has limited volume, the stock price may be subject to extreme volatility based on a limited number of transactions. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. If similar litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We initiated a voluntary recall of certain of our DermaFreeze365™ products and the effects of the recall may have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition. On March 13, 2007, Woodridge initiated a voluntary recall of all lots of its DermaFreeze365™ Instant Line Relaxing Formula (UPC Codes 6-05923-36501-6, 6-05923-36502-3 and 6-05923-10563-6) and DermaFreeze365™ Neck & Chest (UPC Code 6-05923-36503-0) products. This recall was a result of certain products from two lots testing positive for the Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria, exposure to which may result in potential illness for persons who are immuno-compromised. As a result of the recall, we were required to obtain $4.5 million in additional funding from Mounte LLC, or Mounte, our majority stockholder, and from Jocott. To the extent that we cannot replace the sales lost as a result of the recall or experience additional adverse effects (financial or operational) from the recall, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Future product recalls or safety concerns could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be required to recall certain of our products in the future should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. We also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the use of any of our products causes injury or illness. A future product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our operating and financial results. We also could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. The loss of key personnel and the difficulty of attracting and retaining qualified personnel could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends heavily upon the continued contributions of our senior management and employees, particularly Mr. Millin (Nextera’s president and the president and chief executive officer of Woodridge), many of whom would be difficult to replace. Mr. Millin has been the principal managing officer of Woodridge for more than ten years, and the future success of the Woodridge business will depend on his continued service and attention to the business. If key employees terminate their employment with us, our business may be significantly and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our net sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our net sales. We rely on major drugstore chains and mass merchandisers for the sales of our products. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our three largest customers represented approximately 69% of our gross sales. We expect that for future periods a small number of customers will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our net sales. As is customary in the consumer products industry, none of our customers is under an obligation to continue purchasing products from us in the future. The loss of one or more of our customers that accounts for a significant portion of our net sales, or any significant decrease in sales to these customers or any significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, including as a possible result of the March 13, 2007 product recall, could reduce our net sales and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition within our industry, and we are not as financially strong or large as many of our competitors. We are not financially as strong or as large as some of the major companies against whom we compete. Our competitors vary depending upon product categories. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Major competitors principally 10 include large consumer products companies, such as Procter & Gamble, Unilever, KAO Corporation, L’Oreal and over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, as well as a large number of companies with revenues of less than $100 million. Many of these companies have greater resources than we do to devote to marketing, sales, research and development and acquisitions. As a result, they have a greater ability to undertake more extensive research and development, marketing and product promotion, and have more aggressive pricing policies, and may be more successful than we are in gaining and increasing shelf space at retail outlets. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products or their possible effect on our sales. It is possible that our competitors may develop new or improved products to treat the same conditions as our products or make technological advances reducing their cost of production so that they may engage in price competition through aggressive pricing policies to secure a greater market share to our detriment. These competitors also may develop products that make our current or future products obsolete. Any of these events could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, including reducing our market share, gross margins and cash flows. Many of our major competitors have global reach and international production, distribution, marketing and sales capabilities. As a result, they have a much greater ability than we do to expand product sales and distribution in international markets and to capture and increase market share in international markets. We may be unsuccessful in expanding into international markets, and this could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences may result in decreased demand for products, which could have an adverse impact on our future growth and operating results Our success depends in part on our ability to respond to current market trends and to anticipate the desires of consumers. Changes in consumer preferences, and our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause our operating results to suffer. We may be unsuccessful in developing and introducing new products or in expanding our existing product lines. Our industry is highly competitive. Our future success and ability to effectively compete in the marketplace and to maintain our revenue and gross margins requires us to continue to identify, develop and introduce new products and product lines in a timely and cost-efficient manner. We may not be successful in identifying, developing and introducing new products, or in leveraging the success of or expanding existing product lines, which may have a material adverse effect on the business and prospects of our future. Many of our principal competitors are large, well-established firms that are more diversified and have substantially greater resources than we do to devote to new product development and promotion. Any business disruption due to natural disasters or other catastrophic events could adversely impact our financial performance If natural disasters or other catastrophic events occur in the U.S., such events may disrupt operations, distribution and other aspects of our business. In the event of such incidents, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. We rely on others to manufacture our products and for testing and quality control, and disruptions to our manufacturing supply chain or failures in quality control could materially and adversely affect our future sales and financial condition. Currently, we outsource our entire product manufacturing and production needs. We rely on outside manufacturers to provide us with an adequate and reliable supply of our products on a timely basis. We also rely on our outside manufacturers to provided testing and quality control with respect to our products. A failure by our outside manufacturer of our DermaFreeze365™ products resulted in the recall of certain of these products as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors and in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Loss of a supplier, failures in testing or quality control, or any difficulties that arise in the supply chain, including a recall of products, could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and significantly affect our inventories and supply of products available for sale. We do not have alternative sources of supply for all of our products. If a primary supplier of any of our core products is unable to fulfill our requirements for any reason, it could reduce our sales, margins and market share, as well as harm our overall business and financial results. If we are unable to supply sufficient amounts of our products on a timely basis, our revenues and market share could decrease and, correspondingly, our profitability could decrease. 11 We may be subject to claims of infringement regarding products or technologies that are protected by trademarks, patents and other intellectual property rights. Woodridge has historically created individual brand names to identify each of its personal care product lines. Our products may also be formulated using novel chemical compounds, processes or technologies. In the crowded personal care products industry, third parties often own similar brand names, or may own patents on chemical formulas or manufacturing processes or other technologies. Our success depends on our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others and prevent others from infringing upon our trademarks, trade dress, patent rights and other intellectual property rights. If third parties believe we have infringed upon their proprietary rights, they may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on our general business operations or specific product lines. Woodridge or retailers who sell Woodridge products may also engage in advertising which compares Woodridge’s products to products of third parties. As a result, third parties may assert infringement claims against us from time to time based on specific advertisements or marketing claims. If we are subject to an adverse judgment regarding infringement of the proprietary rights of others, we may be forced to discontinue selling affected products under their existing brands, or may need to remove such product from stores and rebrand such products, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. To service our indebtedness and fund our working capital requirements, we will require significant amounts of cash. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness will depend upon our relationship with our lenders, our future operating performance and our ability to generate cash flow in the future, which is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings, including available borrowings under our Credit Agreement (if any), will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If the cash flow from our operating activities is insufficient, we may take actions, such as delaying or reducing capital expenditures, attempting to restructure or refinance our indebtedness prior to maturity, and seeking additional equity capital. Any or all of these actions may be insufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations. Further, we may be unable to take any or all of these actions on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited or eliminated in its entirety. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $61.2 million of federal net operating loss carryforwards that begin to expire in 2021, for which a 100% valuation allowance has been recorded. The utilization of the net operating loss carryforwards in the future is dependent upon our having U.S. federal taxable income. Prior to the acquisition of the Woodridge business, we had no business operations and were unable to generate U.S. federal taxable income to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards. Even following the acquisition of the Woodridge business, there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate taxable income in the future. Furthermore, the likelihood of an annual limitation on our ability to utilize the net operating loss carryforwards to offset future U.S. federal taxable income is increased by (1) the issuance of common stock, certain convertible preferred stock, options, warrants, or other securities exercisable for common stock, (2) changes in the equity ownership occurring in the last three years and (3) potential future changes in the equity ownership. The amount of an annual limitation can vary significantly based on factors existing at the date of an ownership change. A substantial portion of our net operating loss was used to offset our federal tax liability, other than the alternative minimum tax, generated by the sale of Nextera’s economic consulting business in 2003. If the net operating loss carryforwards were determined to be subject to annual limitations prior to its utilization to offset the taxable gain from the sale of Nextera’s economic consulting business, our federal tax liability and the net operating loss carryforwards could be materially different and our financial position could be adversely affected. Such limitations could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our common stock does not trade on an established trading market, which makes our common stock more difficult to trade and more susceptible to price volatility. The delisting of our Class A Common Stock from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market may make our Class A Common Stock more difficult to trade, harm our business reputation and adversely affect our ability to raise funds in the future. Our Class A Common Stock was delisted from the Nasdaq SmallCap Market on November 28, 2003 due to our failure to have an operating business after the sale of our economic consulting business. As a result of the delisting, our common stock may be more difficult to trade and we may suffer harm to our general business reputation and have greater difficulty in the future raising funds in the capital markets. Each of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently do not meet Nasdaq’s initial listing requirements to be re-listed on the Nasdaq SmallCap Market (now known as Nasdaq Capital Market) because, among other things, we do not satisfy the minimum bid price requirement. 12 Mounte (successor to Krest, LLC, Knowledge Universe LLC and Knowledge Universe, Inc.) controls 65.1% of the voting power of our stock and can control all matters submitted to our stockholders. Its interests may be different from yours. Mounte owns 8,810,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, 3,844,200 shares of Class B Common Stock, 56,370 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock, and 15,752 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock, which combined represents approximately 65.1% of the voting power of our outstanding common and preferred stock as of December 31, 2007. The Class A Common Stock entitles its holders to one vote per share, and the Class B Common Stock entitles its holders to ten votes per share, on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of the members of the board of directors. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to 151 votes per share, which equals the number of whole shares of Class A Common Stock into which one share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible. Holders of Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to one vote per share. Accordingly, Mounte will be able to determine the disposition of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including mergers, transactions involving a change in control and other corporate transactions and the terms thereof. In addition, Mounte will be able to elect all of our directors. This control by Mounte could materially adversely affect the market price of the Class A Common Stock or delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Nextera, which could decrease the value of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law could delay, defer or prevent an acquisition or change of control of Nextera or otherwise decrease the price of our common stock. These provisions include: · authorizing our board of directors to issue additional preferred stock; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. ITEM 