ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to support the financial services industry have been coupled with numerous restrictions and requirements that could detrimentally affect our business. The Dodd-Frank Act is significantly changing the current bank regulatory structure and affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. One change that has been particularly significant to us is the abolition of the OTS, our historical federal financial institution regulator, which was effective on July 21, 2011. Supervision and regulation of Provident Bancorp has moved to the Federal Reserve and supervision and regulation of Provident Bank has moved to the OCC. Except as described below, however, the laws and regulations applicable to us have not generally changed — the Home Owners Loan Act and the regulations issued under the Dodd-Frank Act generally still apply (although these laws and regulations are interpreted by the Federal Reserve and the OCC, respectively). However, the application of the laws and regulations may vary as administered by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. It is possible that the OCC may rate the activities of Provident Bank in ways that are more restrictive than the OTS has. This might cause us to incur increased costs or become more restrictive in certain activities than we have in the past. In addition, Provident Bancorp for the first time will be subject to consolidated capital requirements and will be required to serve as a source of strength to Provident Bank. It is possible such requirements may limit our capacity to pay dividends or repurchase shares. Provident Bank also will be subject to the same lending limits as national banks. In addition, the affiliate transaction rules in Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act will apply to securities lending, repurchase agreement and derivatives activities that Provident Bank may have with an affiliate. The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including Provident Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a specific level. The Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially beginning in 2009, and we expect to pay significantly higher premiums in the future. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and additional failures are expected, all of which decrease the DIF. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.15% over a period of several years, the FDIC increased deposit insurance premium rates at the beginning of 2009 and imposed a special assessment on June 30, 2009. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the minimum target Deposit Insurance Fund ratio from 1.15% of estimated insured deposits to 1.35% of estimated insured deposits. The FDIC must seek to achieve the 1.35% ratio by September 30, 2020. Insured institutions with assets of $10 billion or more are supposed to fund the increase. The FDIC has issued regulations to implement these provisions of the Dodd Frank Act. It has, in addition, established a higher reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal beyond what is required by statute. There is no implementation deadline for the 2% ratio. The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. Any increase in our FDIC premiums could have an adverse effect on Provident Bank’s profits and financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which took over responsibility for the principal federal consumer protection laws, such as the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and the Truth in Savings Act, among others, July 21, 2011. Institutions such as Provident Bank, which have assets of $10 billion or less, will continue to be supervised in this area by their primary federal regulators (in the case of Provident Bank, the OCC). In addition, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted a rule that places restrictions on interchange fees applicable to debit card transactions and is thus expected to lower fee income generated from this source. Effective October 1, 2011, interchange fees on debit card transactions are limited to a maximum of 21 cents per transaction plus 5 basis points of the transaction amount. A debit card issuer may recover an additional one cent per transaction for fraud prevention purposes if the issuer complies with certain fraud-related requirements prescribed by the Federal Reserve. Although technically this rule only applies to institutions with assets in excess of $10 billion, it is expected that smaller institutions, such as Provident Bank, may also be impacted. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act significantly rolls back the federal preemption of state consumer protection laws that is currently enjoyed by federal savings associations and national banks by (1) requiring that a state consumer financial law prevent or significantly interfere with the exercise of a federal savings association’s or national bank’s powers before it can be preempted, (2) mandating that any preemption decision be made on a case by case basis rather than a blanket rule, and (3) ending the applicability of preemption to subsidiaries and affiliates of national banks and federal savings associations. As a result, we may now be subject to state consumer protection laws in each state where we do business, and those laws may be interpreted and enforced differently in different states. The scope and impact of many of the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions will be determined over time as regulations are issued and become effective. As a result, we cannot predict the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on us at this time, including the extent to which it could increase costs or limit our ability to pursue business opportunities in an efficient manner, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are operating in a challenging economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Additional concerns from some of the countries in the European Union and elsewhere have to strained the financial markets both abroad and domestically. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market and the constrained financial markets. Declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosure, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • Loan delinquencies could increase further; • Problem assets and foreclosures could increase further; • Demand for our products and services could decline; • Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, could decline further in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and • Investments in mortgage-backed securities could decline in value as a result of performance of the underlying loans or the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral pressing the government sponsored agencies to honor its guarantees to principal and interest. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent 36 Table of Contents in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. We may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Acquisition, development, and construction (ADC) loans, commercial real estate and commercial and industrial loans expose us to increased risk. We consider our commercial real estate loans, commercial and industrial loans and ADC loans to be the higher risk categories in our loan portfolio. These loans are particularly sensitive to economic conditions. At September 30, 2011, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $703.4 million, or 41.4% of total loans, our commercial and industrial business loan portfolio totaled $209.9 million, or 12.3% of total loans, and our portfolio of ADC loans totaled $175.9 million, or 10.3% of total loans. We plan to emphasize the origination of these types of loans other than ADC loans, which we now make only on an exception basis. In addition, many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or ADC loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss. In particular, many of our ADC loans continue to pose higher risk levels than the levels expected at origination. Many projects are stalled or are selling at prices lower than expected. While we continue to seek pay downs on loans with or without sales activity, this portfolio may cause us to incur additional bad debt expense even if losses are not realized. Additionally, the balance on over half of our ADC loans is maturing within one year, which may expose us to greater risk of loss. Changes in the value of goodwill and intangible assets could reduce our earnings. The Company accounts for goodwill and other intangible assets in accordance with GAAP, which, in general, requires that goodwill not be amortized, but rather that it be tested for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level using the two step approach. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is performed annually and involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of September 30, 2011 the net present value of Provident Bancorp shares exceed recorded book value by 2%. Changes in the local and national economy, the federal and state legislative and regulatory environments for financial institutions, the stock market, interest rates and other external factors (such as natural disasters or significant world events) may occur from time to time, often with great unpredictability, and may materially impact the fair value of publicly traded financial institutions and could result in an impairment charge at a future date. 37 Table of Contents Our continuing concentration of loans in our primary market area may increase our risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the New York metropolitan area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Rockland and Orange Counties, New York. We also have a branch presence in Ulster, Sullivan, Westchester and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. In recent years, the structure of the balance sheet has become more asset sensitive in which assets either mature or re-price at a faster pace than liabilities and in particular borrowings. If general levels of interest rates were to continue at existing levels or decline further, net interest income would be adversely affected as asset yields would be expected to decline at faster rates than deposit or borrowing costs. A decline in net interest income may also occur offsetting a portion or all gains in net interest income from assets re-pricing and increases in volume, if competitive market pressures limit our ability to maintain or lag deposit costs. Wholesale funding costs may also increase at a faster pace than asset re-pricing and in this regard we have $220.0 million in structured/convertible advances with the FHLB at an average cost of 4.17%. If interest rates were to approach or exceed this level, it would be expected that the FHLB would call for conversion of those funds at then current market rates which potentially would be higher. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage- related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2011, our investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $739.8 million. Unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $13.6 million and are reported as part of other comprehensive income, included as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Further, decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations which may affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase our common stock. Provident Bancorp is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, Provident Bank, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from Provident Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Provident Bank and other factors that Provident Bank’s regulator could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, Provident Bancorp will be subjected to consolidated capital requirements and will be required to serve as a source of strength to Provident Bank. If Provident Bank is 38 Table of Contents unable to pay dividends to Provident Bancorp or Provident Bancorp is required to retain capital or contribute capital to Provident Bank, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock or to repurchase shares of common stock. A breach of information security could negatively affect our earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we and our third party vendors have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OCC and the FDIC have specific authority to take “prompt corrective action,” depending on our capital level. Currently, we are considered “well-capitalized” for prompt corrective action purposes. If we were designated by the OCC as “adequately capitalized,” our ability to take brokered deposits would become limited. If we were to be designated by the OCC in one of the lower capital levels — “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” — we would be required to raise additional capital and also would be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on our operations, management and capital distributions; replacement of senior executive officers and directors; and, if we became “critically undercapitalized,” to the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations (including the Dodd-Frank Act, which is discussed above), have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services or the way we operate our business, and could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We are subject to competition from both banks and non-banking companies. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Our principal competitors include commercial banks, other savings banks and savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, and suppliers of other 39 Table of Contents investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. Various factors may make takeover attempts more difficult to achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Provident Bancorp. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Provident Bancorp without the consent of our Board of Directors. One may want a take over attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: (a) Certificate of Incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Provident Bancorp and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions also include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations, the election of directors to staggered terms of three years and plurality voting. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. (b) Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition and retention plan shares We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, which require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Provident Bancorp or Provident Bank. We have issued stock grants and stock options in accordance with the 2004 Provident Bancorp Inc. Stock Incentive Plan. In the event of a change in control, the vesting of stock and option grants accelerate. In 2006 we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of the Company. These payments and the acceleration of grants would increase the cost of acquiring Provident Bancorp, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. Our ability to make opportunistic acquisitions and participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assumption of deposits from a troubled institution is subject to significant risks, including the risk that regulators will not provide the requisite approvals. We may make opportunistic whole or partial acquisitions of other banks, branches, financial institutions, or related businesses from time to time that we expect may further business strategy, including through participation in FDIC-assisted acquisitions or assumption of deposits from troubled institutions. Any possible acquisition will be subject to regulatory approval, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approval in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain regulatory approval, these acquisitions could involve numerous risks, including lower than expected performance or higher than expected costs, difficulties related to integration, diversion of management’s attention from other business activities, changes in relationships with customers, and the potential loss of key employees. In addition, we may not be successful in identifying acquisition candidates, integrating acquired institutions, or preventing deposit erosion or loan quality deterioration at acquired institutions. Competition for acquisitions can be highly competitive, and we may not be able to acquire other institutions on attractive terms. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in completing or will even 40 Table of Contents pursue future acquisitions, or if such transactions are completed, that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses into operations. Ability to grow may be limited if we choose not to pursue or are unable to successfully make acquisitions in the future. Our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely impacted by issues arising from certain industry deficiencies in foreclosure practices, including delays and challenges in the foreclosure process. Announcements of deficiencies in foreclosure documentation by several large seller/servicer financial institutions have raised various concerns relating to mortgage foreclosure practices in the U.S. A group of state attorneys general and state bank and mortgage regulators in all 50 states and the District of Columbia is currently reviewing foreclosure practices and a number of mortgage sellers/servicers have temporarily suspended foreclosure proceedings in some or all states in which they do business in order to evaluate their foreclosure practices and underlying documentation. These foreclosure process issues and the potential legal and regulatory responses could impact the foreclosure process and timing to completion of foreclosures for residential mortgage lenders, including the Company. Over the past few years, foreclosure timelines have increased due to, among other reasons, delays associated with the significant increase in the number of foreclosure cases as a result of the economic downturn, additional consumer protection initiatives related to the foreclosure process and voluntary and, in some cases, mandatory programs intended to permit or require lenders to consider loan modifications or other alternatives to foreclosure. Further increases in the foreclosure timeline may have an adverse effect on collateral values and our ability to minimize our losses. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 