ITEM 1A. Risk Factors - ----------------------- Our Commercial Real Estate, Commercial Business and Construction Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks. At September 30, 2006, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $529.6 million, or 35.9% of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $160.8 million, or 10.9% of total loans, and our portfolio of construction loans totaled $96.7 million, or 6.6% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in the Value of Goodwill Could Reduce Our Earnings. We are required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America to test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of September 30, 2006, if our goodwill were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders' equity would be approximately $3.74 per share. We May Have Difficulty Managing Our Growth, Which May Divert Resources and Limit Our Ability to Successfully Expand Our Operations. We have experienced substantial growth from acquisitions, from $757.9 million of total assets and $595.1 million of total deposits at December 31, 1998 to $2.8 billion of total assets and $1.7 billion of total deposits at September 30, 2006. Since 1998, we have expanded our branch network by both acquiring financial institutions and establishing de novo branches. At September 30, 1998, we had 11 branch offices, compared to 33 branches at September 30, 2006. We have incurred substantial expenses to build our management team and personnel, develop our delivery systems and establish an infrastructure to support future growth. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and to manage a growing number of client relationships. We may not be able to successfully implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in our existing systems and controls. Thus, we cannot be certain that our growth strategy will not place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure or require us to incur additional expenditures beyond current projects to support our future growth. Our future profitability will depend in 30 part on our continued ability to grow. We cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain our historical growth rate or continue to grow at all, absent acquisitions. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the New York metropolitan area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Rockland and Orange Counties, New York. We also have a branch presence in Ulster, Sullivan and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy also may have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts back to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates continue to fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. The Bank's average cost of interest-bearing liabilities has increased, and, although the average asset yields increased this period, they did so at a slower pace due to continued market pressure. This has been offset somewhat by the increase of interest earning assets compared to interest bearing liabilities. Should the yield curve continue to remain "flat" or inverted, a continued decline in net interest margin may occur, offsetting a portion, or all gains in net interest income generated from an increasing volume of assets. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2006, our investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $951.7 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $7.5 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders' equity. A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. 31 We are Subject to Heightened Regulatory Scrutiny with respect to Bank Secrecy and Anti-money Laundering Statutes and Regulations. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Provident Bancorp. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Provident Bancorp without the consent of our Board of Directors. One may want a take over attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Office of Thrift Supervision regulations. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit, for three years following the completion of a mutual-to-stock conversion, the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted bank without the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. We completed our mutual-to-stock conversion on January 14, 2004. Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Provident Bancorp and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions also include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition and retention plan shares. We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, which will require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Provident Bancorp or Provident Bank. We have also adopted the 2004 Provident Bancorp, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan to permit additional issuance of stock options and recognition and retention plan shares to key employees and directors that will require payments to them in connection with a change in control of Provident Bancorp. We have granted additional restricted shares and options under this plan. In 2006 we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of the Company. These payments will have the effect of increasing the cost of acquiring Provident Bancorp, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has Issued New Rules. Under prior rules, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation did not assess deposit insurance premiums on financial institutions, such as Provident Bank, that were, among other criteria, well-capitalized. On November 2, 2006, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted final regulations that assess insurance premium based on risk. As a result, the new regulation will enable the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to more closely tie each financial institution's deposit insurance premiums to the risk it poses to the deposit insurance fund. Under the new rules, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation will evaluate the risk of each financial institution based on its supervisory rating, its financial ratios, and its long-term debt issuer rating. The new rates for nearly all of the financial institution industry will vary between five and seven cents for every $100 of domestic deposits. If this rule had been in effect September 30, 2006, we would have paid an annual deposit insurance assessment to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of approximately $1.3 million, which would have reduced our net income. We have a tentative credit for future FDIC assessments of $1.4 million, which can be applied against future assessments. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ------------------------------------ Not Applicable. 32 