RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report, including, but not limited to, our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and the trading prices of our securities could be adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below or other factors. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve uncertainties. Our actual results could differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements in this section are made only as of the filing date of this annual report. 1. Risks Related to our External Environment (1) Protracted global economic weakness and instability could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations The global economy continued to show moderate recovery. However, growth in emerging economies is slowing due to the protracted European debt issue and delayed economic recovery in advanced economies. 4 Table of Contents Against this backdrop, 2012 is set to be a milestone year for politics with elections and potential changes in the top leadership and economic policies of major nations expected to be a focus of attention. Also, geopolitical risk continues to be seen in the Middle East and East Asia. The Japanese economy is showing a moderate recovery from the decline that followed the Great East Japan Earthquake, accompanied by signs of recovery in production activity. However, the historic appreciation of yen continues to pressure Japanese economic recovery. Despite our attempts to minimize our exposure to these Japanese and global economic problems through the development and implementation of risk management procedures, continuing weakness and instability in the European, U.S. and Japanese economies could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (2) We may lose market share or suffer reduced profitability if our competitors compete with us on pricing and other terms We compete with our competitors primarily on the basis of pricing, transaction structure, service quality and other terms. Other competitive factors include industry experience and client relationships. Our competitors sometimes seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing and other terms without regard to profitability, and we may lose market share if we are unwilling to compete on pricing or other terms. Similarly, some of our competitors are larger than we are, can access capital at a lower cost than we can and are better able to maintain profits at reduced prices. If we try to compete with such competitors on pricing, service quality or other terms, we may experience lower income or reduced profitability. Any such events could have an adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (3) Negative rumors could affect our business activities, financial condition, and results of operations or share price Our business depends upon the confidence of customers and market participants. Negative rumors about our activities, our industries or parties with whom we do business could harm our reputation and diminish confidence in our business. If we suffer reputational damage as a result of any rumors, we may lose customers or business opportunities, which could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations, and our share price could decline. (4) Our business may be adversely affected by economic fluctuations and political disturbances We conduct business operations in Japan as well as overseas, including in the United States, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East and Europe. Among overseas businesses, operations in the United States, Asia and Oceania are especially large. One of our mid-term management strategies is “Embracing growth in emerging markets including Asia.” Shifts in commodity market prices and consumer demand, political instability or religious strife in these and other regions, could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (5) Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events or any continuing effects caused by such events. Unpredictable events include man-made events, such as accidents, war, terrorism and insurgency, and natural events, such as earthquakes, storms, tsunamis, fires and outbreaks of new strains of influenza or other infectious diseases. If any such event occurs, such event may, among other things, cause unexpectedly large market price movements or an unexpected deterioration of the economic conditions of a country or region. If such a sudden and unpredictable event occurs, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. 5 Table of Contents (6) Dispositions of Shares may adversely affect market prices for our Shares A few of our shareholders hold more than five percent of the total number of outstanding Shares. These shareholders may, for strategic or investment reasons, decide to reduce their shareholdings in ORIX. Dispositions of Shares, particularly dispositions of large numbers of Shares by major shareholders, may adversely affect market prices for the Shares. For information on major shareholders, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” A large portion of our Shares is held by investors outside Japan. Due to changes in the global economy or political conditions, investors outside Japan have reduced and may continue to reduce their investments in Japanese stocks. Further reduction in Japanese stock investment by such investors may adversely affect market prices for our Shares. 2. Credit Risk (1) Our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses may be insufficient and our credit-related costs might increase We maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses. However, we cannot be sure that the allowance will be appropriate to cover future credit losses. This allowance may be inappropriate due to unexpected adverse changes in the Japanese and overseas economies in which we operate, or deterioration in the conditions of specific customers, industries or markets. The operating results of many companies have deteriorated due to restricted credit availability caused primarily by the continued effects of the meltdown of the global financial and capital markets and the ensuing economic recession. In response to such conditions, we endeavored to improve our portfolio management, an exercise which resulted in a decline in doubtful receivables and probable loan losses. However, we may be required to make additional provision in the future. In order to enhance our collections from debtors, we may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against companies that are unable to fulfill their repayment obligations. We may also forgive loans or extend additional loans to such companies. Furthermore, if, due to adverse economic or market conditions, the value of underlying collateral and guarantees declines, our credit-related costs might increase. If we need to increase our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses, or if our credit-related costs increase to cover these changes or events, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 3. Market Risk (1) Changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates could adversely affect our assets and our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business activities are subject to risks relating to changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates in Japan and overseas. Although we conduct asset-liability management (“ALM”), fixed and variable interest rates and terms of fixed-rate assets and liabilities are not uniform among our assets and liabilities. As such, increases or decreases in market interest rates or changes in the yield curve could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, when funds procurement costs increase due to rising market interest rates or the perception that an increase in market interest rates may occur, financing lease terms and loan interest rates for new transactions may diverge from the trend in market interest rates. Furthermore, with respect to floating-rate loan assets, if market interest rates increase, the repayment burdens of our customers may also increase, which could adversely affect the financial condition of such 6 Table of Contents customers and their ability to repay their obligations to us. Alternatively, a decline in interest rates could result in increased prepayments of loans and a decrease in our assets. Changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the credit quality of our assets and our asset structure. We are not perfectly hedging all of our currency risks that arise from business operations in foreign currencies and overseas investments. As a result, a significant change in interest rates or currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (2) Our use of derivatives may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations We utilize derivative instruments to reduce investment portfolio price fluctuations, and to manage interest rate and currency risk. However, we may not be able to successfully manage these risks through the use of derivatives. There exist fears such that counterparties may fail to honor the terms of their derivatives contracts with us, and we may be exposed to additional risks. Alternatively, our ability to enter into derivative transactions may be adversely affected if our credit ratings are downgraded. We may also suffer losses from trading activities, a part of which includes the use of derivative instruments. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our use of these derivatives may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (3) Fluctuations in market prices of stocks and bonds may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations We hold investments in listed or non-listed shares, including our affiliates accounted for by the equity method, and bonds in Japan, the United States and other regions. The market values of our investment assets are volatile and may decline substantially in the future. A significant decline in the value of our investment assets could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 4. Business Risk (1) We are exposed to risks from our diverse and expanding range of products and services, acquisitions of companies and assets, and entry into joint ventures and alliances We engage in a wide range of diversified business and are expanding the range of our businesses to offer new products and services in Japan and overseas. Such expansion may expose us to new and complex risks, which we may be unable to fully control or foresee, and, as a result, we may incur unexpected costs or losses, which may be substantial. In addition, our efforts to offer new products and services may not achieve the expected results if business opportunities do not develop or increase as expected or if competitive pressures undermine the profitability of the available opportunities. As part of our business expansion, we may from time to time acquire companies, including companies in troubled condition which we consider to be “turn-around” businesses, or their assets. We cannot guarantee that the price we pay for acquisitions will be fair or appropriate. If the results of operations of acquired companies are lower than what we expected at the time we made such acquisitions, our acquisitions could result in large future write-downs of goodwill and other assets. We enter joint ventures and alliances with foreign and domestic counterparties, and the success of these operations is often dependent upon the financial and legal stability of our counterparties. If one of our joint ventures or alliance counterparties suffers a decline in its financial condition for any reason, or is subject to instability because of a change of the laws governing its operations, we may be required to pay in additional capital, or reduce at a loss our investment in, or close the operations altogether. 7 Table of Contents The contribution from our consolidated subsidiaries and equity method affiliates to our consolidated results of operations is an important component of our income. There can be no assurance that this contribution will be maintained. Also there can be no assurance that we will continue to identify attractive opportunities, or that investments will be as profitable as we originally expected. Our subsidiaries and affiliates have a wide range of business operations, including operations that are very different from our financial services business. Failure to manage investee companies effectively could result in financial losses as well as losses of future business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to sell or otherwise dispose of investments at times or prices we initially expected. We may also need to provide financial support, including credit support or equity investments, to some investee companies if their financial condition deteriorates. If any such events occur, then our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (2) If our services to customers are inadequate, our reputation may be harmed and we may be obligated to compensate our customers We provide M&A financial advisory and consulting services to our customers. If such services are inadequate and our customers suffer losses as a consequence, we may be obligated to compensate our customers for those losses. We also provide various services such as maintenance services for leasing assets, environment-related solution services, energy-related solution services including electricity retailing and the operation of hotels, golf courses and training facilities. Although we strive to provide high quality services, if we fail to meet customer expectations or our services are otherwise, our reputation may be harmed and our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If such services are insufficient and our customers suffer losses as a consequence, we may be obligated to compensate our customers for those losses. (3) We are exposed to risks related to asset value volatility We invest in ships, aircraft, real estate and other assets in Japan and overseas. The market values of our investments are volatile and may decline substantially in the future. Valuation losses of our assets are recorded based on end-of-period fair value in accordance with applicable accounting principles. However, losses from the sale of these assets, including as a result of a sudden need for liquidity, may exceed the amount of recorded valuation losses. We estimate the residual value for operating leases at the time of contract. Our estimates of the residual value of equipment are based on current market values of used equipment and assumptions about when and to what extent the equipment will become obsolete; however, we may need to recognize additional valuation losses if our estimates differ from actual trends in equipment valuation and the secondhand market, and we may incur losses if we are unable to collect such estimated residual amounts. In such event, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (4) Our real estate-related operations expose us to various risks Our real estate-related operations include development and lease of real estate, and real estate finance. Our real estate finance business is comprised of non-recourse loans for which cash flow from real estate is the source of repayment, and underwriting specified bonds that are issued by special purpose entities (SPEs), which are secured by real estate. 8 Table of Contents A drastic fluctuation in land prices or the supply-demand balance in the real estate sale/purchase or rental market in Japan and overseas may cause a deterioration in real estate market conditions. This may adversely affect the financial condition of counterparties to whom we have made loans, the value of loan collateral, or the value of our real estate holdings. Any such events could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in development and lease of real estate, vacancy rates have risen and rents have dropped. In real estate finance, this may decrease the estimated collectable amount and the value of real estate held as collateral, which could require us to increase our provision for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses or purchase the senior portion of debt to protect subordinated debt held by us. Furthermore, losses on the collection of loans through sales of the real estate may exceed the amount that we initially estimated. In our real estate development operations, we try to obtain indemnities against contractual breaches and land and property defects. However, construction work may be postponed or canceled by the contractor in breach of the terms, and the indemnity provided may be insufficient to cover our losses arising from such breach due to a deterioration of the contractor’s financial condition. In such situations, we may be required to indemnify the losses. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs to complete or operate property. Any such events could have an adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (5) We are exposed to risks regarding our licensed businesses Certain of our businesses, including our life insurance business, banking business, securities trading business and real estate investment advisory business are subject to control by industry-specific laws and regulations requiring, among other things, that each company conduct independent operations and maintain financial health and appropriateness of business activities. A total or partial suspension of operations or the revocation of one or more of our licenses may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (6) Our life insurance subsidiary is subject to risks that are specific to its business We are exposed to the risk of unpredictable and potentially substantial increases in insurance payments for deaths and hospital benefits, in relation to the business of ORIX Life Insurance Corporation. If ORIX Life Insurance suffers valuation or other losses, including from declines in the value of securities or real estate that it purchases for asset management purposes, that affect its ability to maintain its regulatory capital or liability reserve requirements, or if changes in regulations require ORIX Life Insurance to increase its capital or liability reserves, we may be required to provide financial support through capital contributions. In addition, if ORIX Life Insurance fails to conduct reasonable asset liability management, or ALM, to appropriately manage risks and returns on investment assets and underwriting risks on insurance policy benefits, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, ORIX Life Insurance is required to make contributions to the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan (the “PPC”) to provide financial support to insolvent life insurance companies. If one or more PPC participants were to go bankrupt, solvent PPC members, including ORIX Life Insurance could be required to make additional contributions to the PPC. In such an event, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (7) Risks related to our other businesses We operate a wide range of diversified businesses in Japan and overseas, including financial services business. In recent years, we have expanded into areas such as environmental business, renewable energy and nursing care. Entry into these industries, and the results of operations following such entry, are accompanied by various uncertainties, and if any unanticipated risk does eventuate, this may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents 5. Risk Relating to Fund Procurement (1) Our access to liquidity and capital may be restricted by economic conditions, instability in the financial markets or changes in our credit ratings Our primary sources of funds from financing activities include: borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, funding from capital markets (such as offerings of commercial paper, straight bonds and medium-term notes, convertible bonds, asset-backed securities and other debt securities) and deposits. Such sources include a significant amount of short-term debt, such as CP and short-term borrowings from various institutional lenders, and long-term debt maturing in the current fiscal year. Some of our committed credit lines require us to comply with financial covenants and maintain specified credit ratings. In addition, some of the non-recourse loans under which we borrow funds to finance specific projects require early repayment if the relevant projects experience declines in performance. The increased risks to our financial liquidity will increase the possibility that our ability to raise new funds in the market or to renew existing funding sources may become uncertain; we may be exposed to increased funding costs; we may be more subject to volatility in the credit markets; and our securities may not be attractive in the capital markets. If our access to liquidity is restricted, or if we are unable to obtain our required funding at acceptable costs, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations will be significantly and adversely affected. We obtain credit ratings from ratings agencies. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in our interest expenses and could have an adverse effect on our fund-raising ability by increasing costs of issuing CP and corporate debt securities, decreasing investor demand for our securities, increasing our bank borrowing costs or reducing the amount of bank credit available to us. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. 6. Legal Risk (1) Enactment of, or changes in, laws, regulations and accounting standards may affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Enactment of, or changes in, laws and regulations may affect the way that we conduct our business, the products or services that we may offer in Japan or overseas, as well as our customers, borrowers, invested companies and funding sources. Such enactment or changes may cause our costs to increase, or if relating to account standards may significantly affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations, even if our underlying business fundamentals remain the same. As a result of such enactment or changes, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. (2) A failure to maintain adequate controls to comply with regulations harm our reputation and adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business and employees in Japan are subject to laws, as well as regulatory oversight of government authorities who implement those laws, relating to the various fields in which we operate. These include laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions, such as the Moneylending Business Act, the Installment Sales Act, the Insurance Business Act, the Banking Act, the Trust Business Act, the Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Act and the Building Standards Act, as well as general laws applicable to our business activities, such as the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. Our businesses outside of Japan are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate and are subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions. For example, in addition to being subject to U.S. securities laws, we are also subject to the USA Patriot Act, which prohibits us from entering into any transactions with countries listed as state sponsors of terrorism, and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits us from offering bribes to foreign public servants. 10 Table of Contents We endeavor to implement thorough internal control for compliance and legal risk management to prevent violations of such laws and regulations, but our efforts may not be fully effective in preventing all violations. In addition, we engage in a wide range of businesses, and our expansion into new businesses through our acquisitions may require us to revise or cause our current internal controls to cease to function adequately. In such cases, we may be subject to sanctions or penalties, which could apply to our officers or employers, if we fail to revise them properly or at all. Such events could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Whether there exists any violation of laws, if we are investigated by government authorities or sued in connection with our businesses, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 7. Operational Risk (1) Failures in our computer and other information systems could hinder our operations and damage our business activities, financial condition and result of operations We utilize computer systems and other information systems for financial transactions, personal information management, business monitoring and processing and as part of our business decision-making and risk management activities. These information systems may be outsourced. System shutdowns, malfunctions or failures, the mishandling of data or fraudulent acts by employees, vendors or other third parties, or infection by a computer virus could have adverse effects on our operations, for example by causing delay in the receipt and payment of funds, the leak or destruction of confidential or personal information, the generation of errors in information used for business decision-making and risk management and the suspension of other services provided to our customers. In such event, our liquidity or the liquidity of customers who rely on us for financing or payment could be adversely affected. Our information system equipment could suffer damage from a large-scale natural disaster or from terrorism. If networks or information systems fail, we could experience interruption of business activity, delay in payment or sales, or substantial costs for recovery of functionality. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (2) We may not be able to hire or retain human resources Our businesses require a considerable investment in human resources and the retention of such resources in order to successfully compete in markets in Japan and overseas. Many of our businesses require employment of talented individuals who have experience and knowledge in the financial field. If we cannot develop, hire or retain the necessary human resources, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (3) If our internal controls over financial reporting are insufficient, adversely affecting our share price, reputation, business activities We have established and assessed our internal controls over financial reporting in a manner intended to ensure compliance with the requirements of various laws and regulations. However, in future periods we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. Such a finding may cause us or our accountants to issue a report that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective, which could cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and cause our share price to fall. In such cases, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents (4) Our risk management may not be effective We continuously seek to improve our risk management function. However, due to the rapid expansion of our business or significant changes in the business environment, our risk management may not be effective in some cases. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. (5) Other operational risks The conduct of our various businesses entails many types of operational risks. Examples include inappropriate sales practices; inadequate handling of clients’ complaints; failures of information security including the divulging of confidential or personal information; inadequate internal communication of necessary information; misconduct of officers, employees, agents, franchisees, trading associates, vendors or other third parties; errors in the settlement of accounts breaking and entering; and conflicts with employees concerning labor and workplace management. Our management attempts to control operational risk and maintain it at a level that we believe is appropriate. Notwithstanding our control measures, operational risk is part of the business environment in which we operate, and our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected at any time due to this risk. Even if we do not incur direct pecuniary loss, our reputation may be adversely affected. 8. Risks Related to Holding or Trading our Shares and ADRs (1) Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from those under the laws of other jurisdictions Our Articles of Incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors and the Companies Act govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights are different from those that would apply if we were incorporated elsewhere. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law are different in some respects from shareholders’ rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside Japan. For a detailed discussion of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act and our Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation.” (2) It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors or executive officers, or to enforce against ORIX or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States ORIX is a joint stock company incorporated in Japan. Most or all of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Although some of ORIX’s subsidiaries have substantial assets in the United States, substantially all of ORIX’s assets and the assets of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors and executive officers or to enforce against ORIX or those persons, in U.S. courts, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. ORIX has been advised by its Japanese counsel that there is doubt, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, as to the enforceability in Japan of civil liabilities based solely on U.S. securities laws. A Japanese court may refuse to allow an original action based on U.S. securities laws. The United States and Japan do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil or commercial matters. Therefore, if you obtain a civil judgment by a U.S. court, you will not necessarily be able to enforce such judgment directly in Japan. 12 Table of Contents (3) We expect to be a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors We believe that we will be a passive foreign investment company under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code for the year to which this report relates and for the foreseeable future because of the composition of our assets and the nature of our income. Assuming this is the case, U.S. investors in our Shares or ADSs will be subject to special rules of taxation in respect of certain dividends or gain on such Shares or ADSs, including the treatment of gains realized on the disposition of, and certain dividends received on, the Shares or ADSs as ordinary income earned pro rata over a U.S. investor’s holding period for such Shares or ADSs, taxed at the maximum rate applicable during the years in which such income is treated as earned, and subject to interest charges for a deemed deferral benefit. In addition, the favorable rates of tax applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate U.S. investors would not be available. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Taxation.” Investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the income tax consequences of investing in our Shares or ADSs. (4) If you hold fewer than 10 Shares, you will not have all the rights of shareholders with 10 or more Shares One “unit” of the Shares is comprised of ten Shares. Each unit of the Shares has one vote. A holder who owns Shares other than in multiples of ten will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting fewer than ten Shares.) The Companies Act imposes significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote. Under the unit share system, a holder of Shares constituting less than a unit has the right to require ORIX to purchase its Shares and the right to require ORIX to sell it additional Shares to create a whole unit of ten Shares. However, a holder of ADRs is not permitted to withdraw underlying Shares representing less than one unit, which is equivalent to 20 ADSs, and, as a practical matter, is unable to require ORIX to purchase those underlying Shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any size. (5) Foreign exchange fluctuations may affect the value of our securities and dividends Market prices for our ADSs may decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the dollar amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. (6) A holder of ADRs has fewer rights than a shareholder and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining a company’s accounting books and records and exercising dissenters’ rights, are available only to holders of record on a company’s register of shareholders. The Shares represented by our ADSs are registered in the name of a nominee of the depositary, through its custodian agent. Only the depositary is able to exercise those rights in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the Shares represented by our ADSs as instructed by the holders of the ADRs representing such ADSs and will pay to those holders the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, a holder of ADRs will not be able to directly bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and exercise dissenters’ rights through the depositary unless the depositary specifically undertakes to exercise those rights and is indemnified to its satisfaction by the holder for doing so. 