ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our Commercial Real Estate, Commercial Business and Construction Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks. At September 30, 2007, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $535.0 million, or 32.8% of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $207.2 million, or 12.6% of total loans, and our portfolio of construction loans totaled $153.1 million, or 9.3% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings. We are required by U.S. Generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of September 30, 2007, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $4.06 per share. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the New York metropolitan area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Rockland and Orange Counties, New York. We also have a branch presence in Ulster, Sullivan and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy also may have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts back to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates continue to fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. Since 2005, after the completion of the second step conversion and the ENB and WSB acquisitions shifts in short term market rates led to an inverted yield curve and consequently fierce competition for deposits. The overall increase in interest bearing deposits due to this competition and eventual migration of deposits to higher rate products increased interest bearing deposit funding costs from 1.2% in 2005 to 2.6% in 2007. Additionally, average wholesale funding costs, as measured by the cost of borrowings, increased from 3.4% in 2005 to 4.9% in 2007. These increases outpaced the tax equivalent average yield on earning assets, which increased from 5.3% in 2005 to 6.3% in 2007. This increase in funding costs in excess of earning asset yields was offset by the overall increase in average earning assets over the same period from $2.2 billion to $2.5 billion in 2007. The overall result was that tax equivalent net interest income remained relatively unchanged at $86.8 million in 2005, $84.8 million in 2006 and $84.7 million in 2007. A continued decline in net interest margin may occur, offsetting a 29 Table of Contents portion, or all gains in net interest income generated from an increasing volume of assets, if competitive market pressures limit our ability to reduce liability costs as the level of short-term interest rates decrease, or liability costs increase in response to increasing short-term rates. In this regard, we have $289.5 million in structured advances with FHLB. The advances have interest rates that are below the level of comparable fixed term borrowings. If interest rates rise the borrowings may be called whereby the funds would need to be replaced at higher levels. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2007, our investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $795.0 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $3.9 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We are Subject to Extensive Regulatory Oversight We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. We are subject to competition from both banks and non-banking companies. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Our principal competitors include commercial banks, other savings banks and savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. 30 Table of Contents Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Provident New York Bancorp. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Provident New York Bancorp without the consent of our Board of Directors. One may want a take over attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of incorporation and statutory provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Provident New York Bancorp and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions also include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required change in control payments and issuance of stock options and recognition and retention plan shares. We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, that require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Provident New York Bancorp or Provident Bank. We have issued stock grants and stock options in accordance with the 2004 Provident Bancorp Inc. Stock Incentive Plan. The majority of grants under the plan were made in 2005 and generally vest over five years. In the event of a change in control, the vesting of stock and option grants accelerate. In 2006 we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of the Company. These payments and the acceleration of grants would increase the cost of acquiring Provident New York Bancorp, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 