ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS While we achieved profitability during fiscal year 2010, we may incur future losses and cannot assure you that we will sustain profitability on a consistent basis. We cannot be certain that we will realize sufficient revenues to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, especially if our recurring subscription business grows faster than expected relative to license sales. In addition, in the future, we expect to continue to incur non-cash expenses relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets that will contribute to our net losses, along with any potential goodwill impairment. As of May 31, 2010, we had $5.0 million of purchased intangible assets to be amortized as a result of our January 2006 acquisition of Centra Software, Inc. (“Centra”) and May 2005 acquisition of THINQ Learning Solutions, Inc. (“THINQ”) and our goodwill balance was $36.1 million. Further, starting with the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we were required to record as an expense charges related to all current outstanding and future grants of stock options in our reported results from operations in accordance with ASC 718-10 Compensation—Stock Compensation ,(formerly SFAS No.123 (revised 2004)), which was issued by the FASB in December 2004. These non-cash expenses have made it and will continue to make it significantly more difficult for us to continue to achieve profitability. We may not be able to sustain profitability on a consistent basis. 14 Table of Contents The recent recession and global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results or financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. The recent recession and global economic crisis caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, public sector deficits and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets, which have contributed to diminished expectations for the global economy. These macroeconomic developments have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their IT budgets or be unable to fund software or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously-purchased products and services. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could cause our stock price to experience significant fluctuations or declines. Our operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely fluctuate significantly in the future. Our quarterly operating results are particularly affected by the number of customers licensing our products during any quarter and the size of such licensing transactions. We have limited visibility into our future revenue, especially license revenue, which often has been heavily concentrated in the third month of each quarter. As a result, if we were to fail to close a sufficient number of transactions by the end of our quarter, particularly large license transactions, we would miss our revenue projections. If our plan to expand sales coverage and marketing support to align with key growth initiatives is not successful, we could miss our revenue and profit projections. In addition, our operating expenses are based in part on future revenue projections and are relatively fixed in the short-term. If we cannot meet our revenue projections, our business will be seriously harmed and net losses in a given quarter will be even larger than expected. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • The demand for our products and professional services and our efficiency in rendering our professional services; • The variability in the mix of our revenues and bookings in any quarter; • The variability in the mix of the type of services delivered in any quarter and the extent to which third party contractors are used to provide such services; • The size and complexity of our license transactions and potential delays in recognizing revenue from license transactions; • The amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • The performance of our international business, which accounts for a substantial part of our consolidated revenues; and • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. If we are unable to accurately forecast revenues, we may fail to meet stock analysts’ and investors’ expectations of our quarterly operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals, including the date when they estimate that a customer will 15 Table of Contents make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. We aggregate these estimates periodically in order to generate a sales pipeline. We assess the pipeline at various points in time to look for trends in our business. While this pipeline analysis may provide us with some guidance in business planning and budgeting, these pipeline estimates are necessarily speculative and may not consistently correlate to revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, particularly in the recent global weak macroeconomic environment. Additionally, because we have historically recognized a substantial portion of our license revenues in the last month of each quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner in response to variations in the conversion of the sales pipeline into license revenues. Any change in the conversion rate of the pipeline into customer sales or in the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly budget for future expenses that are in line with our expected future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Failure to adequately expand and ramp our direct sales force will impede our growth. We need to continue to increase and develop our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand and ramp our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting these people and training them in the use of our products require significant time, expense and attention. This expansion will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. Our business will be seriously harmed if our efforts to expand and ramp our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, whether due to the global economic slowdown or for other reasons, we may not be able to significantly increase our revenue and grow our business. Our subscription business depends substantially on customers renewing their agreements with us. Any decline in our customer renewals would harm our future operating results. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our customers renew their agreements with us when the contract term expires. Our subscription customers have no obligation to renew their contracts, and we cannot assure you that customers will renew subscriptions at the same or higher level of service, if at all. During our fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, 7%, 9% and 10% of our subscription business was not renewed, respectively. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our product offerings, pricing, the prices of competing products or services, completion of customer initiatives, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our subscription customers do not renew their contracts or renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline. Because we generally recognize revenue from the sale of our subscription solutions ratably over the term of the offering period, a significant downturn in our subscription business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We generally recognize subscription revenue over the terms of our customer agreements, which typically range from one to three years. As a result, most of our quarterly subscription revenue results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not impact our financial performance in that quarter, but will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. If a number of contracts expire and are not renewed in the same quarter, our revenue could decline significantly in that quarter and in subsequent quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales and market acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations, making our results less indicative of our future prospects. It is also difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. 16 Table of Contents If our efforts to attract new customers or to sell additional solutions to our existing customers are not successful, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, we must continually add new customers and sell additional solutions to existing customers. If our existing and prospective customers do not perceive our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we may not be able to attract new customers or to increase sales to existing customers. Our ability to attract new customers and to sell new solutions to existing customers will depend in large part on the success of our sales and marketing efforts. However, our existing and prospective customers may not be familiar with some of our solutions, or may have traditionally used other products and services for some of their people management requirements. Our existing and prospective customers may develop their own solutions to address their people management requirements, purchase competitive product offerings or engage third-party providers of outsourced people management services. A decline in the price of, or demand for, our products or our related services offerings, would seriously harm our revenues and operating margins. We anticipate that revenues from the Saba People Suite as well as related services will constitute substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a decline in the price of, or demand for, the Saba People Suite or failure to achieve broad market acceptance would seriously harm our business. Our products have a long sales cycle, which increases the cost of completing sales and renders completion of sales less predictable. Due to the expense, broad functionality, and company-wide deployment of our products, the period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long. To successfully sell our products and services, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and services. We may commit a substantial amount of time and resources to potential customers without assurance that any sales will be completed or revenues generated. Many of our potential customers are large enterprises that generally take longer to make significant business decisions. Our public sector customers, in particular, are subject to extensive procurement procedures that require many reviews and approvals. Our typical sales cycle has been approximately six to 12 months, making it difficult to predict the quarter in which we may recognize revenue. The delay or failure to complete sales in a particular quarter could reduce our revenues in that quarter. If our sales cycle were to unexpectedly lengthen in general or for one or more large orders, it would adversely affect the timing of our revenues. If we were to experience a delay on a large license order, it could harm our ability to meet our forecasts for a given quarter. We experience seasonality in our sales and expense, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We experience quarterly seasonality in the demand for our products and services. For example, revenue has historically been lower in our first fiscal quarter while expenses have been higher than in the immediately preceding fourth fiscal quarter. Contributing to this seasonality is the timing of our first fiscal quarter that occurs during the summer months when general business activities slow down in a number of territories where we conduct our operations, particularly Europe. Our commission structure and other sales incentives also tend to result in fewer sales in the first fiscal quarter than in the fourth fiscal quarter. These seasonal variations in our revenue are likely to lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Reductions in information technology spending could limit our ability to grow our business. Our operating results may vary based on changes in the information technology spending of our clients. The revenue growth and profitability of our business depend on the overall demand for enterprise applications and services. We sell our solutions primarily to large organizations whose businesses fluctuate with general economic and business conditions. As a result, decreased demand for enterprise applications and services, and in particular 17 Table of Contents people systems, caused by a weakening global economy may cause a decline in our revenue. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in corporate information technology spending. In particular, people software may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. In the future, potential clients may decide to reduce their information technology budgets by deferring or reconsidering product purchases, which would negatively impact our operating results. We rely on our relationships with our strategic partners. If we do not maintain and strengthen these relationships, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses could be adversely affected, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We believe that our ability to increase the sales of our products depends in part upon maintaining and strengthening relationships with our current strategic partners and any future strategic partners. In addition to our direct sales force, we rely on established relationships with a variety of strategic partners, such as systems integrators, resellers, business process outsourcing partners (BPOs), human resource outsourcing partners (HROs) and distributors, for marketing, selling, implementing, and supporting our products in the United States and internationally. Our strategic partners offer products from several different companies, including, in some cases, products that compete with our products. We have limited control, if any, as to whether these strategic partners devote adequate resources to promoting, selling, and implementing our products as compared to our competitors’ products. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to strengthen our relationships with our strategic partners or that such relationships will be successful in generating additional revenue. We may not be able to maintain our strategic partnerships or attract sufficient additional strategic partners, who have the ability to market our products effectively, are qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service, or have the technical expertise and personnel resources necessary to implement our products for our customers. In particular, if our strategic partners do not devote sufficient resources to implement our products, we may incur substantial additional costs associated with hiring and training additional qualified technical personnel to implement solutions for our customers in a timely manner. Furthermore, our relationships with our strategic partners may not generate enough revenue to offset the significant resources used to develop these relationships. If we are unable to leverage the strength of our strategic partnerships to generate additional revenues, our revenues and the price of our common stock could decline. Implementation of accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue or to report lower earnings per share. While we believe that we are in compliance with ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition, additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices that could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or to recognize lower revenue. In addition, policies, guidelines and interpretations related to accounting for acquisitions, income taxes, facilities consolidation charges, allowance for doubtful accounts and other financial reporting matters require different judgments on complex matters that are often subject to multiple sources of authoritative guidance. To the extent that management’s judgment is incorrect, it could result in an adverse impact on our financial statements. Further, the factual complexities of applying these policies, guidelines and interpretations to specific transactions can lead to unanticipated changes in revenue recognition with respect to such transactions, which may affect our revenue and results of operations. The loss of our senior executives and key personnel would likely cause our business to suffer. Our ability to implement a successful long-term strategy, strengthen our competitive position, expand our customer base, and develop and support our products depends to a significant degree on the performance of the 18 Table of Contents senior management team and other key employees. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional personnel with the highly specialized expertise necessary to generate revenue and to engineer, design and support our products and services. Like other technology companies, we face intense competition for qualified personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain such personnel. Intense competition in our target market could impair our ability to grow and achieve profitability on a consistent basis. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, dynamic and subject to rapid technological change. The intensity of the competition and the pace of change are expected to increase in the future. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. We encounter competition with respect to different aspects of our solution from a variety of sources including: • Companies that offer human capital management solutions that provide one or more applications within the HCM market, such as leaning management, performance management, talent management, compensation and recruiting, including SumTotal and Success Factors; • Companies that offer collaboration solutions, such as Microsoft, Adobe and Cisco; • Enterprise software vendors that offer human resources information systems and employee relationship management systems with training and performance modules, such as SAP and Oracle; • Potential customers’ internal development efforts; and • Companies that operate Internet-based marketplaces for the sale of on-line learning. We expect competition from a variety of companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do, enabling them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Such resources also enable our competitors to withstand prolonged periods of negative cash flows and unfavorable economic, political and market conditions. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other partners, thereby increasing the availability of their services to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and competitive pressures that we encounter may seriously harm our business. The consolidation or acquisition of our competitors or other similar strategic alliances could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. There has been vendor consolidation in the market in which we operate. Additional consolidation within our industry may change the competitive landscape in ways that adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future BPO partners, HRO partners, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our products and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the complexity of conducting business globally, our international revenues may suffer. International revenues accounted for 32%, 29% and 28% of our revenues for our fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Although we intend to continue to expand our international presence, in the future we may not be able to successfully market, sell or distribute our products and services in foreign markets. Factors that could materially adversely affect our international operations, and our business and future growth include: • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including language barriers; • Seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns in other countries, particularly depressed sales during July and August in European markets; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries, particularly European countries in which collections take considerably more time than the United States and collections are more difficult to effect; • Currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly in countries where we sell our products in denominations other than U.S. dollars, such as in the United Kingdom, the Euro zone, Australia and Japan, or have exposures in inter-company accounts denominated in foreign currencies; • Exposure to tax regimes of multiple countries and potential increased tax exposure relating to in-country profits as well as audits and assessments relating to transfer pricing matters and other tax matters; • Costs attributable to development of internationalized versions of our products and marketing and sales materials; • Increases in our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions in order to comply with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations (including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the U.S. and local laws in foreign jurisdictions which prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trader restrictions, and export requirements); • The reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Greater difficulties in maintaining and enforcing U.S. accounting and public reporting standards, including in staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel sufficiently experienced in U.S. accounting and public reporting standards; • Tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers and unexpected changes thereto; and • Exposure to geopolitical instability, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism. In addition, the reallocation of certain design, development and testing functions from the United States to our lower-cost development centers in India intensifies our exposure to international uncertainties. In recent years, increased growth and development of the technology market in general, and in India specifically, has made it more difficult for us to hire and retain qualified technical employees and other personnel. In addition to the risks inherent in conducting international operations as described above, certain risks are particularly acute in India, such as employee turnover, increasing salaries and less reliable infrastructure. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state and local governments and their respective agencies. Sales into government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully sell our products and services to such governmental entity. Government entities may require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and 20 Table of Contents funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products. Most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through third-party prime contractors that resell our solutions. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. The success of our recently announced Saba People Cloud could be adversely impacted by deployment problems, security breaches, or system or telecommunication disruptions. The Saba People Cloud, delivering Saba’s people suites on Amazon Web Services, is new and could encounter unexpected problems. These problems could be attributable to our products, third party software, telecommunications failures, security breaches, or the cloud technology from Amazon Web Services or other hosting providers. Industry acceptance of cloud computing is still forming. Since cloud technology is new and requires that customer data reside outside of a customer’s “fire wall” of protection, many prospective customers could reject or delay adoption, thereby limiting the potential for this new offering. If the Saba People Cloud fails to keep pace with sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth Any disruption of service from the Saba People Cloud, or loss or compromise of customer orders or data, would adversely affect our adoption and renewal rates for the Saba People Cloud and adversely impact our ability to achieve our business plan and forecasted financial results. Because a number of our products collect, store and report personal information of employees, privacy concerns could result in liability to us or inhibit sales of our products. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Because many of our products collect, store and report on personal information, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our products and reduce overall demand for them. Privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our products in certain industries. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Recently several tax bills have been introduced to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities. The current Administration has made public statements indicating that it has made the issue a priority and key members of the U.S. Congress have conducted hearings and proposed legislation. Accordingly, depending on the final form of legislation enacted, if any, these consequences may be significant for us due to the large scale of our international business activities. If any of these proposals are enacted into legislation, they could have material adverse consequences on the amount of tax we pay and thereby on our financial position and results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could lower our revenue and net income. During the fiscal year 2010, we recognized approximately 32% percent of our revenue in markets outside the United States in each market’s respective local currency. We provide our products and services to customers 21 Table of Contents in the United States, Europe and elsewhere through the world. Sales are primarily made in U.S. dollars, and to an increasing extent, British pounds and Euros. As we continue to expand our operations, more of our contracts may be denominated in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen and other foreign currencies. In preparing our financial statements, we translate revenues and expenses in foreign countries from their local currencies into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. Because an increasing portion of our sales is in foreign countries, exchange rate fluctuations may have a significant effect on our sales and earnings. Our reported net earnings may be significantly affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, with earnings generally increasing with a weaker U.S. dollar and decreasing with a strengthening U.S. dollar. As sales expand in countries where foreign currency transactions may be made, our operating results will increasingly be subject to the risks of exchange rate fluctuations and we may not be able to accurately estimate the impact that these changes may have on our future results of operations or financial condition. We may from time to time enter into foreign currency hedging contracts, which may create foreign currency losses. Future acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business if we fail to adequately integrate acquired businesses. As part of our overall business strategy, we expect to continue periodically to acquire complementary businesses or technologies that will provide additional products or services offerings, additional industry expertise or an expanded geographic presence. The pursuit of acquisitions involves a number of uncertainties, including selecting the appropriate products, technologies or companies to acquire and successfully complete the targeted transaction. Completed acquisitions could further result in the use of significant amounts of cash, the incurrence of debt or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities which may reduce earnings per share. Further, acquisitions that we complete expose us to numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • The diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • Risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; • The potential loss of key employees, significant customers and strategic partners of the acquired company; and • Exposure to claims by terminated employees, stockholders of the acquired company or other third parties related to the acquisition. Although we generally obtain indemnification and other contractual protection against such claims, we cannot assure that they will be enforceable or sufficient to protect us. Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed a variety of requirements and restrictions on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. In addition, the SEC and the U.S. Congress are proposing additional significant corporate governance-related rules. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these new compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually or if a triggering event occurs in accordance with the provisions of ASC 350-20 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (formerly SFAS No. 142 “Goodwill and 22 Table of Contents Other Intangible Assets.” We are also required to test long-lived assets for impairment if a triggering event occurs with the provisions of ASC 350-30 “General Intangibles other than Goodwill” and ASC 360-10 “Property, Plant and Equipment” (formerly SFAS No.144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.”) Such impairment could be caused by internal factors as well as external factors beyond our control. Significant negative industry or economic trends, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates or lack of growth in the areas in which we generate revenues could lead to an impairment charge for any of our intangible assets or goodwill. If, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where the fair value of the Company, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than our book value, this too could indicate a potential impairment and we may be required to record an impairment charge in our statement of operations in that period which would cause our profits to decline. We operate in highly competitive environments and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. Additionally, if a significant decline in our stock price and/or market capitalization result in impairment to our goodwill, we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which such impairment is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Delays in releasing new products or enhanced versions of our existing products could adversely affect our competitive position. As part of our strategy, we expect to regularly release new products and new versions of our existing products. Even if our new products or new versions of our existing products contain the features and functionality our customers want, in the event we are unable to timely introduce these new products or product releases, our competitive position may be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the development of currently planned or future products or product releases in a timely and efficient manner. Due to the complexity of our products, internal quality assurance testing and customer testing of pre-commercial releases may reveal product performance issues or desirable feature enhancements that could lead us to postpone the release of these products. In addition, the reallocation of resources associated with any postponement would likely cause delays in the development and release of other future products or enhancements to our currently available products. The reallocation of certain design, development and testing functions to our lower-cost development center heightens risks relating to product design, development, testing and introduction. Any delay in releasing future products or enhancements of our products could harm our business. If we release products containing defects, we may need to halt further shipments, service levels may be reduced and our business and reputation would be harmed. Products as complex as ours often contain unknown and undetected errors or performance problems. Although our products are subject to rigorous testing and quality control processes, serious defects are frequently found during the period immediately following introduction and initial shipment of new products or enhancements to existing products. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before shipment to them, our products are not error-free. These errors or performance problems could result in lost revenues, reduced service levels, delays in customer acceptance on professional services products and would be detrimental to our business and reputation. As is typical in the software industry, with each release we have discovered errors in our products after introduction. We will not be able to detect and correct all errors before releasing our products commercially and these undetected errors could be significant. We cannot assure you that undetected errors or performance problems in our existing or future products will not be discovered in the future or that known errors considered minor by us will not be considered 23 Table of Contents serious by our customers, resulting in cancellation of orders, loss of customers, difficulties in achieving our sales goals, increased demands on our support services, a decrease in our revenues and service credits or refunds. To correct such errors, we may expend considerable time and resources to develop and release modifications to our software. As a result of such errors, we may be subject to warranty and product liability claims that are costly or difficult to settle. Our products and services enable customers to manage critical business information. If product errors are alleged to cause or contribute to security and privacy breaches or misappropriation of confidential information, we may also be subject to significant liability. Although our license agreements contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability, we cannot assure you that these limits will be adequate, that they will be enforceable or, if enforceable, that they will be interpreted favorably by a court. We face risks related to claims third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights and other litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly in the software and Internet-related industries. We have in the past been and are presently subject to intellectual property actions. For example, on August 19, 2003, EdiSync Systems, LLC filed a complaint against Centra in federal court in Denver, Colorado, alleging infringement of two patents for a remote multiple user editing system and method and seeking to enjoin us from continuing to sell our products, as well as unspecified compensatory damages. Centra filed an answer to the complaint denying all of the allegations, and instituted reexamination proceedings for the patents at issue with the Patent Office. Centra filed a request for reexamination of the patents at issue with the Patent Office. Our patent counsel is of the opinion that claims of the patents involved in the suit are invalid. The re-examination request was accepted by the Patent Office and the Colorado District Court approved the parties’ motion to stay the court proceedings during the re-examination proceedings. A reexamination certificate has been issued for one of the patents that canceled all of the patent’s claims, thus rendering that patent of no further force or effect. The Patent Office issued a reexamination certificate for the other patent canceling all of the patent’s original claims and allowing certain newly-added claims. We believe we are free from liability for past actions, as we believe the newly-added claims would be enforceable only prospectively as of the issue date of the reexamination certificate. Centra has since filed a second reexamination request asking the Patent Office to reconsider the patentability of the newly-added claims in view of newly-discovered prior art and the Patent Office has granted that request. The Colorado District Court has again stayed the litigation pending the outcome of the second reexamination proceeding. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend this action, we can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve a satisfactory outcome. We could become subject to additional intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our products and services overlap with competitive offerings. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention from operating our company. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial award of damages and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also may face other forms of litigation or claims as part of our business, which may expose us to additional costs and risks. Our products include third party technology, the loss of which could materially harm our business. We use licensed third party technology components in our products. Future licenses to this technology may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of or inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could result in delays in the introduction of new products or could force us to discontinue offering portions of our solutions until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. 24 Table of Contents Our use of open source technology could impose limitations on our ability to commercialize our products. We use open source software in our application suite. Although we monitor our use of open source software closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by United States courts, and there is risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. In such event, we could be required to re-engineer our technology or to discontinue offering all or a portion of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and our competitors may be able to offer similar products and services that would harm our competitive position. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, which may represent potential sales and revenue losses that are difficult to quantify. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, time-consuming and costly. Were we to discover instances of unauthorized use, there can be no assurance that we would be able to enforce our proprietary rights or obtain adequate recovery for our losses. In addition, we have seven patents issued in the United States and seven patent applications pending in the United States. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued for any of the pending patent applications. Even for the issued patents, or any patent issued to us in the future, there can be no assurance that such patent will protect our intellectual property, or will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. Our disaster recovery plan does not include redundant systems, and a disaster could severely damage our operations. Our disaster recovery plan does not include fully redundant systems for our services at an alternate site. A disaster could severely harm our business because our services could be interrupted for an indeterminate length of time. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect the computer systems needed for the day-to-day operation of the subscription business. A number of these computer systems are located on or near known earthquake fault zones. Although these systems are designed to be fault-tolerant, the systems are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and other events. Additionally, we do not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate us for all potential losses that could occur. We outsource the management and maintenance of a portion of our subscription business to third parties and will depend upon them to provide adequate management and maintenance services. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our networks and systems. For instance, we rely on third-party Internet service providers to host our products for our subscription customers. We also rely on third-party communications service providers for the high-speed connections that link our networks and our Internet service providers’ Web servers and office systems to the Internet. Our reliance on third party providers limits our ability to control critical customer service functions and communications systems. Any Internet or communications systems failure or interruption could result in disruption of our service or loss or compromise of customer orders and data. These failures, especially if they are prolonged or repeated, would make our services less attractive to customers and tarnish our reputation. 25 Table of Contents If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to client data, clients may curtail or stop their use of our subscription solutions, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. A portion of our subscription business involves the storage and transmission of confidential information of clients and their existing and potential employees, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of, or unauthorized access to, this information, resulting in possible litigation and possible liability. Although we have never sustained such a breach, if our security measures were ever breached as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party obtained access to this confidential data, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not discovered until launched against a target. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially. For example, from the beginning of fiscal 2008 through May 31, 2010, the market price for our common stock has fluctuated between $6.15 per share and $0.91 per share. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including those described above and the following: • The announcement of new products and services or product and service enhancements by us or our competitors; • Actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that may follow our stock; • Developments in our industry, including announcements of significant acquisitions or strategic partnerships; and • General market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Stock Market technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Broad market and industry trends may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock may prevent our stockholders from selling their shares at a favorable price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Class-action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and our rights plan could delay or prevent a change in control. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquirer were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquirer would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms that make it difficult to remove all directors at once. The acquirer would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to remove directors at an annual 26 Table of Contents meeting. The acquirer will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquirer to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, on June 2, 2009, our board of directors authorized and declared a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of our common stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 15, 2009. Each right entitles the registered holder, subject to the terms of the rights agreement between us and the rights agent, to purchase from us one one-thousandth of a share (a unit) of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share, at a purchase price of $12.50 per unit, under circumstances described in the rights agreement. The purchase price, the number of units of preferred stock and the type of securities issuable upon exercise of the rights are subject to adjustment. The rights will expire at the close of business June 2, 2012 unless earlier redeemed or exchanged. Until a right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no rights as one of our stockholders, including the right to vote or to receive dividends. The rights are not immediately exercisable. Subject to the terms and conditions of the rights agreement, they will become exercisable ten business days after a person or group acquires, or commences a tender or exchange offer which would lead to the acquisition of, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Once a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock, subject to the terms of the rights agreement, each right not owned by that person or group or certain related parties will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right’s then-current purchase price, units of Series A Preferred Stock or, at our option, shares of common stock or cash, property or other securities of our company having a market value equal to twice the then-current purchase price. Our anti-takeover provisions as well as our rights agreement could have the effect of discouraging a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to gain control of us, even though the transactions could be profitable for our stockholders. If the acquirer was discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by our anti-takeover measures, our stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 