Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a great deal of risk. Careful consideration should be made of the following factors as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before deciding to purchase our securities. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in the U.S. and other countries. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be affected materially and adversely by any or all of these risks. THE FOLLOWING MATTERS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OR PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE. REFERENCE TO THIS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT IN THE CONTEXT OF A FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A STATEMENT THAT ANY ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS MAY CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE IN SUCH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT OR STATEMENTS. Risks Related to Our Business Competition from large international oil and gas companies to acquire retail gas stations has led to a significant increase in acquisition costs, which may cause us to slow our acquisition strategy for our retail gas station operating segment. 23 The retail gas station market in the PRC is highly fragmented with many privately owned gas stations. To date, our operating leases for, and acquisitions of, retail gas stations have primarily been with or from private owners. Over the past two years, large international players, such as Exxon Mobil and Shell, have penetrated this market through partnerships with state-owned entities or others. As a result, competition for small privately-owned gas stations has become intense and lease payments and purchase prices to acquire retail gas stations have significantly increased. Companies such as Exxon Mobil and Shell have greater financial and other resources than we do, and we may be unable to successfully finance such acquisitions at potentially higher prices or otherwise. Our growth strategy with respect to our retail gas station business depends on our ability to continue to acquire, through leases and otherwise, gas stations. If the acquisition costs for retail gas stations continue to rise, we may be unable to compete against larger international companies. Any significant slow-down in our strategy to grow our retail gas station segment through acquisitions would have a material adverse effect on revenue growth for this segment. The failure of the former owner of the Shenmu gas station to transfer to us the land use rights to the land on which the gas station is located may materially affect our ability to operate the gas station. According to the purchase agreement to acquire the Shenmu gas station, the former owner is obligated to transfer to us the land use rights to two parcels of land on which the Shenmu gas station is located. As of December 31, 2011, we have obtained 2.891Mu land use rights certificates ,the transfer of the residual land use rights certificates is in process, but remains subject to the approval of relevant regulatory authorities. We cannot guarantee that such land use rights will be transferred to us in a timely manner. If the land use rights certificates are not transferred to us, our right to use the land could be challenged. If any such challenge is successful, it could impair our ability to continue to operate and develop the Shenmu gas station. Furthermore, we could be subject to the risk of potential disputes in connection with the land use rights. Such disputes, whether resolved in our favor or not, may divert management attention, harm our reputation or otherwise disrupt our business. We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our supply of finished oil and heavy oil products and the loss of any such supplier, particularly our largest supplier, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent upon our relationships with third parties for our supply of finished oil and heavy oil products. Our five largest suppliers provided 52.5% and 43.7% of the finished oil and heavy oil products we sold in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively, with our largest supplier providing approximately 20.3% and 13.0%, respectively, in such periods. Should any of these suppliers, and in particular our largest supplier, terminate their supply relationships with us, fail to perform their obligations as agreed, or enter into the finished oil or heavy oil products business in competition with us, we may be unable to procure sufficient amounts of finished oil and heavy oil products to fulfill our demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of finished oil and heavy oil products at economically viable prices, our customers could seek to purchase products from other suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We are highly dependent on the revenue contribution from our wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil business segment. A reduction in sales from this segment would cause our revenues to decline and materially harm our business. We currently derive a significant majority of our sales from our wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products business segment, which accounted for 62.3% and 71.9% of our total sales in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. As a result, should there be an adverse industry trend in the petroleum sector, our limited diversification could result in our results of operations declining substantially and suffering disproportionately compared to our competitors that have diversified their revenue sources. Our ability to operate at a profit is partially dependent on market prices for petroleum and biodiesel fuels, which are subject to government control in the PRC. If petroleum and biodiesel prices drop significantly, we may be unable to maintain our current profitability. Our results of operations and financial condition are affected by the selling prices of petroleum and biodiesel fuel products. Prices are subject to and determined by market forces and actions by the PRC government over which we have no control. 24 Although the current price-setting mechanism for refined petroleum products in China allows the PRC government to adjust prices in the PRC market when the average international crude oil price fluctuates beyond certain levels within a certain time period, the PRC government still retains full discretion as to whether or when to adjust the refined petroleum products price. The PRC government can also be expected to exercise price control over refined petroleum products once international crude oil price experiences sustained growth or becomes significantly volatile. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by the fluctuation of market prices of crude oil and refined petroleum products as well as the discretionary actions of the PRC government. We face substantial competition in our wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil business segment. We are one of the only four non-state-owned enterprises that are licensed to distribute both finished oil and heavy oil products in Shaanxi Province. Although barriers to entry in our industry are high due to stringent licensing requirements and the need for significant storage capacity for products, we face competition from companies located in other provinces and within Shaanxi Province that also engage in the wholesale distribution of finished and heavy oils. Such companies may have greater financial resources, sales resources, storage capacity and transportation capability than we do, and may have exclusive supply and purchase arrangements with suppliers as a result of long-term relationships. Our competitors include China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, or SINOPEC, and PetroChina Co., Ltd., or PetroChina, both of which have greater resources, brand recognition and access to more extensive distribution channels than we do. In addition, we estimate that we have approximately ten major non-state-owned competitors in Shaanxi Province that also distribute finished oil and heavy oil products similar to ours, including Shaanxi Dongda Petro-Chemical Co., Ltd., Shaanxi Dayun Petrochemical Material Co., Ltd., and Baoji Huahai Industry Corp. An increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors in the wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of our market share and departure of key management personnel, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Our biodiesel products face substantial competition. Other companies may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize products earlier or more successfully than we do. Existing and future domestic competitors in the biodiesel industry, who may have a greater presence in other regions through government support, may be able to secure a significant market share in regions where we currently do not have operations. In addition, our potential competitors might be able to secure raw materials at lower costs than we can and could therefore threaten our competitive position, which could significantly impact our profitability and future prospects. Our domestic competitors include Gushan Environment Energy Ltd., China Biodiesel International Holdings Co., Ltd., China Clean Energy Inc., East River Energy Resources and Science Technology (Zhejiang) Ltd., SINOPEC, China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or CNOOC, and PetroChina, most of which have greater resources, brand recognition and access to more extensive distribution channels than we do. We also face potential competition from foreign producers of biodiesel, which may have greater financial research and development resources than we do. Biodiesel is a relatively new product that was initially introduced outside the PRC, and the technology for producing biodiesel may be more advanced in countries other than the PRC. If foreign competitors, or domestic competitors relying on alliances with or support from foreign producers, enter the PRC biodiesel market, they may develop biodiesel that is more economically viable, which would adversely affect our ability to compete and our results of operations. 25 In addition, new technologies may be developed or implemented for alternative energy sources and products that use such energy sources. Advances in the development of fuels other than biodiesel or diesel, or the development of products that use energy sources other than diesel, such as gasoline hybrid vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, could significantly reduce demand for biodiesel and thus affect our sales. Biodiesel also faces competition from fuel additives that help diesel burn cleaner and therefore reduce the comparative environmental benefits of biodiesel in relation to diesel. Other clean energy sources such as ethanol, liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen and electricity from clean sources may be more cost-effective to produce, store, distribute or use, more environmentally friendly, or otherwise more successfully developed for commercial production in the PRC than our products. These other energy sources may also receive greater government support than our products in the form of subsidies, incentives or minimum use requirements. As a result, demand for our products may decline, our business model may no longer be viable, and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Any increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors or from competing technologies or other clean energy sources may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of our market share and departure of key management, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and profitability. Our limited history for producing biodiesel may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. Currently, we have only three production facilities, of which two are in Tongchuan City, Shaanxi Province; and one is newly acquired in Chongqing City, We began producing biodiesel in October 2007, and we began selling biodiesel at the end of 2007. Our limited operating history as a producer and distributor of biodiesel makes it difficult for prospective investors to evaluate our business. Therefore, our operations are subject to all of the risks, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the operation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the biodiesel industry. Investors should evaluate us in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, services, and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to financial success. Our production and sale of biodiesel business segment is dependent upon the implementation of our business plan, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for the provision of necessary feedstock sources and the sale and distribution of our biodiesel on terms that will be commercially viable for us. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in sales or profit. If we fail to execute on our business plan, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. The commercial success of our products depends on the degree of their market acceptance among the petroleum and biodiesel fuel community. If our products do not attain market acceptance among the petroleum and biodiesel fuel community, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. Our customers continually evaluate their product specifications in response to the latest developments in the energy market. Our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet our customers’ current and future requirements. We expect, therefore, to require significant ongoing investment to preserve our ability to comply with these standards in order to ensure continued product acceptance and customer retention. Additionally, the biodiesel market is at a relatively early stage of development and the extent to which biodiesel products will be widely adopted is uncertain. The biodiesel industry may also be particularly susceptible to economic downturns. Market data in the biodiesel industry is not as readily available as data in other more established energy industries where trends can be assessed more reliably from data gathered over a longer period of time. If biodiesel technology proves unsuitable for widespread adoption or if demand for biodiesel products fails to develop sufficiently, we may not be able to grow our business or generate sufficient revenues to sustain our profitability. In addition, demand for biodiesel products in our targeted markets, including China, may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipated. The distribution of finished oil is primarily dependent on the sufficiency of necessary infrastructure and access to means of transport, including rail transportation, which may not be available on a cost-effective basis, if at all. Our wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil business segment depends heavily on the availability of infrastructure and means of transportation, including but not limited to adequate highway or rail capacity, including sufficient numbers of dedicated tanker trucks or cars and sufficient storage facilities. 26 In connection with entering into oil storage services agreements through which we use two state-owned oil depots, we currently benefit from convenient railway freight access located near such depots, which enables us to reach certain parts of China, including Sichuan, Yunnan and Guizhou Provinces, to which other distribution companies in Shaanxi Province currently do not have easy access. There can be no assurance that the PRC government will continue to allow us to utilize this railway. Our gross margins in our wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products and in our operation of retail gas station segments are principally dependent on the spread between the average purchase price and the average selling price. If the average purchase price increases and the average selling price of our products does not similarly increase or if the average selling price of our products decreases and the average purchase price does not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease and results of operations will be harmed. Our gross margins in the wholesale distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products and in the operation of retail gas stations depend principally on the spread between the average purchase price and the average selling price we are able to realize for our products. The spread between the average purchase price for petroleum and the average selling price of our products has been relatively stable since 2007. Prices for petroleum in the PRC are primarily influenced by the guidance prices set by the National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and supply and demand for petroleum-based fuel, rather than production costs. Any decrease in the spread between the average purchase price and the prices we are able to realize for our products, whether as a result of an increase in purchase prices or policy determinations by the NDRC, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flows. Our future success substantially depends on our ability to significantly increase both our biodiesel production capacity and output. Our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase both our production capacity and our output. In particular, we intend to expand our biodiesel production capacity within the next several years. Our ability to establish additional production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: · the ability to raise significant additional funds to purchase raw materials and to build additional production facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; · delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as increases in raw materials prices and problems with equipment vendors; · delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; · diversion of significant management attention and other resources; · failure to maintain the lease for the land (and buildings) or to acquire additional land and buildings to be used for our biodiesel production and storage; and · failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to establish or successfully operate additional production capacity or to increase production output, or if we encounter any of the risks described above, we may be unable to expand our business and decrease costs to improve our profitability as planned. Even if we do expand our production capacity and output, we may be unable to generate sufficient customer demand for our biodiesel to support our increased production levels. In the past we have derived a significant portion of our sales from a few large customers. If we were to lose any of such customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 27 Our customer base has been highly concentrated. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 40.21% and 38.1% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our largest customer China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation Chuanyu Trading Co., Ltd. accounted for approximately 26.51% and 25.5% of our sales, respectively, during such periods. Our customer base may change from year-to-year, and during such years that our customer base is highly concentrated, the loss of, or reduction of our sales to, any of such major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “Business — Business Segments — Wholesale Distribution of Finished Oil and Heavy Oil — Customers” for a description of our largest customers. We depend on our key executives, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our key executives. In particular, we are highly dependent upon Mr. Xincheng Gao, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, who has established relationships within the industries we operate. If we lose the services of one or more of our current executive officers, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers with industry experience similar to our current officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for qualified candidates could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. The current economic and credit environment could have an adverse effect on demand for certain of our products and services, which would in turn have a negative impact on our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, our ability to borrow and our stock price. Since late 2008, global market and economic conditions have been disrupted and volatile. Concerns over increased energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining residential real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to this increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a global recession. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic conditions will persist, whether they will deteriorate further, and which of our products, if not all of them, will be adversely affected. As a result, these conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our gross margin in our production and sale of biodiesel segment is principally dependent on the spread between feedstock prices and biodiesel prices. If the unit cost of feedstock increases and the average selling price of biodiesel does not similarly increase or if the average selling price of biodiesel decreases and the unit cost of feedstock does not similarly decrease, our margin will decrease and results of operations will be harmed. Our gross margin in the production and sale of biodiesel segment depends principally on the spread between feedstock and biodiesel prices for vegetable oil residue, waste cooking oil and non-edible oil seeds, which have historically been our principal feedstock and comprised approximately 90% of total cost of goods sold of our production and sale of biodiesel segment during the year ended December 31, 2011, do not necessarily have a direct price relationship to the price of biodiesel in a particular period. Prices for non-edible oil seeds, vegetable oil residue and waste cooking oil are principally influenced by general inflation, market and regulatory factors. Biodiesel prices, however, are primarily influenced by the guidance prices set by the NDRC and supply and demand for petroleum-based diesel fuel, rather than biodiesel production costs. This lack of correlation between production costs and product prices means that we may be unable to pass increased feedstock costs on to our customers. In the last two years, the prices of vegetable oil residue, waste cooking oil and non-edible oil seeds have fluctuated substantially due to increased demand in China resulting from its rapid economic development. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in biodiesel prices, would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28 The biodiesel industry faces a number of challenges, and there is no established market for biodiesel in the PRC where biodiesel is not considered a principal source of energy for any purpose. Biodiesel has only recently been produced for commercial applications in the PRC. The market for biodiesel products is currently confined to specific regions and is relatively small at the national level. There is no established market in the PRC where biodiesel is considered a principal source of energy for vehicles operating on diesel or for any other purpose. We cannot assure you that biodiesel will be widely accepted or will reach a broader consumer base in the PRC. Our future prospects and operational results will be adversely affected if demand for biodiesel and the biodiesel industry in the PRC fail to develop. The global biodiesel industry is also at an early stage of development and acceptance, as compared to other more established energy industries, and significant growth has occurred only recently. Demand for biodiesel may not grow as rapidly as expected, or at all. Biodiesel and the global biodiesel industry also face a number of obstacles and drawbacks, including: · potentially increased nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions as compared with most formulations of diesel; · gelling at lower temperatures than diesel, which can require the use of low percentage biodiesel blends in colder climates or the use of heated fuel tanks; · potential water contamination that can complicate handling and long-term storage; · reluctance on the part of some auto manufacturers and industry groups to endorse biodiesel and their recommending against the use of biodiesel or high percentage biodiesel blends; · potentially reduced fuel economy due to the lower energy content of biodiesel as compared with diesel; · potentially impaired growth due to a lack of infrastructure such as dedicated rail tanker cars and truck fleets, sufficient storage facilities, and refining and blending facilities. The success of our expansion plans depends on growth in domestic demand for biodiesel, and we may face overcapacity if the biodiesel market in the PRC does not develop as expected. If overcapacity occurs, the expenditures we incur to expand our facilities and increase our capacity may not result in increased sales, which could cause our results of operations to be materially and adversely affected. Our biodiesel business depends on the sufficiency of necessary infrastructure which may not occur on a timely basis, if at all, and our operations could be adversely affected by the failure to develop infrastructure or disruptions to that infrastructure. Substantial development of infrastructure will depend upon persons and entities outside of our control, and the control of others in the biodiesel industry, generally. Areas requiring expansion include, but are not limited to: · adequate highway or rail capacity, including sufficient numbers of dedicated tanker trucks or cars; · sufficient storage facilities for feedstock and biodiesel; · increases in truck fleets capable of transporting biodiesel within localized markets; and · expansion of independent filling stations. 29 Substantial investments required for these infrastructure changes and expansions may not be made or they may not be made on a timely basis. Any delay or failure in making the changes to or expansion of infrastructure could hurt the demand or prices for our biodiesel products, impede our delivery of biodiesel products, impose additional costs on us or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Our business is dependent on the continuing availability of infrastructure and any infrastructure disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain, maintain or renew necessary permits or licenses. All PRC enterprises in the finished oil and biodiesel industries are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses, including, without limitation, an Approval Certificate for Wholesale Distribution of Finished Oil, a Dangerous Chemical Distribution License and a Safe Production Permit. We have obtained permits and licenses required for the distribution of finished oil and heavy oil products, and production of biodiesel. These permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We intend to apply for renewal and/or reassessment of such permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations, however, we cannot assure you that we can obtain, maintain or renew the permits and licenses or accomplish the reassessment of such permits and licenses in a timely manner. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew the licenses, permits and approvals, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being renewed and/or reassessed. If we fail to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or to secure rights to patents of third parties, our business could be significantly impaired. Our success, competitive position and future revenues will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we have filed 14 patent applications with the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC, or the SIPO. We were granted four utility model patent and one invention patent. The other eight patent applications have all been accepted by the SIPO, and four of them have passed the preliminary examination. In accordance with the PRC Patent Law, all utility model patents granted to us will be valid for 10 years from the date of filing. Accordingly, the two patents granted in 2008 were filed in 2006 and will be valid until 2015, and the patent granted in 2009 was filed in 2008 and will be valid until 2017. However, we cannot fully predict the degree and range of protection these patents will afford us against competitors. Third parties may find ways to invalidate or otherwise circumvent our proprietary technology. Third parties may attempt to obtain patents claiming aspects similar to our patent applications. If we need to initiate litigation or administrative proceedings, such actions may be costly whether we win or lose. To help protect our proprietary know-how and inventions for which patents may be unobtainable or difficult to obtain, such as our core technology for oil processing, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements. If any of our intellectual property is disclosed, our value would be significantly impaired, and our business and competitive position would suffer. If we infringe the rights of third parties, we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages and compelled to defend against litigation. If our products, methods, processes and other technologies infringe proprietary rights of other parties, we may have to obtain licenses (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all), redesign our products or processes, stop using the subject matter claimed in the asserted patents, pay damages, or defend litigation or administrative proceedings, which may be costly whether we win or lose. All of the above could result in a substantial diversion of valuable management resources and we could incur substantial costs. 30 We believe we have taken reasonable steps, including comprehensive internal and external prior patent searches, to ensure we have the freedom to operate under our intellectual property rights, and that our development and commercialization efforts can be carried out as planned without infringing others’ proprietary rights. However, a third-party patent may have been filed or will be filed that may contain subject matter of relevance to our development, causing a third-party patent holder to claim infringement. Resolving such issues has traditionally resulted, and could in our case result, in lengthy and costly legal proceedings, the outcome of which cannot be predicted accurately. Our legal right to lease certain properties or accept oil storage services from third parties could be challenged by property owners, regulatory authorities or other third parties, which could prevent us from continuing to utilize our oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility and retail gas stations, which are located on such leased properties, or could increase the costs associated with utilizing those facilities. Although all land in the PRC is owned by the government or by collectives, private individuals and businesses are permitted to use, lease and develop land for a specified term without owning the land, the duration of which depends on the purpose of land use. These rights to use land are termed land use rights. We do not hold any land use rights with respect to our biodiesel production facilities in Tongchuan City, Shannxi Province, oil storage depots or retail gas stations, except for Jinzheng gas station and Shenmu gas station. Instead, our business model relies on leases with third parties who either own the properties or lease the properties from the ultimate property owner and, with respect to two of the oil storage depots that we use, we rely on the oil storage service agreements with two state-owned entities. There may be challenges to the title of the properties and the rights to provide oil storage services which, if successful, could impair the development or operations of our oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility and retail gas stations on such properties. In addition, we are subject to the risk of potential disputes with property owners. Such disputes, whether resolved in our favor or not, may divert management attention, harm our reputation or otherwise disrupt our business. In most instances, our immediate lessors do not possess the ultimate land use rights or proper property use rights, or have not obtained consents or approvals from the holders of the land use rights or relevant regulatory authorities to sublease the land or storage space to us. A lessor’s failure to duly obtain the title to the property or to receive any necessary approvals from the ultimate holders of the land use rights, the primary lease holder or relevant regulatory authorities, as applicable, could potentially result in the invalidation of our lease, the renegotiation of such lease leading to less favorable terms or, in serious cases, require us to vacate the properties that we occupy or pay a fine. With regard to the two state-owned depots that provide storage services to us, their failure to obtain necessary approvals or to fulfill their obligations of filing or registering with relevant regulatory authorities of such storage services under PRC laws and regulations could invalidate such storage service agreements and we may have to stop using such storage services. The building ownership or leasehold in connection with our oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility and gas retail operations could be subject to similar challenges. In addition, three of our gas stations are located on pieces of land which are not permitted to be used for any non-agricultural purposes. We have not been informed by any regulatory authority that we should cease to use such land. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to use such land in the future. If we are required to vacate from such land by any regulatory authorities, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The failure of our lessors to transfer gas station operating permits to us may materially affect our ability to conduct retail gas business. Under PRC law, the operation of gas stations requires various permits. In this regard, we conduct our retail gas station business by leasing ten gas stations from third parties who have obtained the requisite permits. To date, we have obtained all of the necessary operating permits for six gas stations. The operating permits for the remaining retail gas station are still in the process of being transferred to us subject to the approval of relevant regulatory authorities. While the lease agreement requires the lessor to transfer its operating permits to us, we cannot guarantee that such permits will be transferred to us in a timely manner. If the lessor fails to transfer any of the necessary operating permits, we may not be able to conduct business at such retail gas station, and may be subject to warning, suspension of business, a fine of up to three times the illegal gains, or a fine of up to RMB 30,000. 31 Our lessors’ failure to comply with lease registration and other compliance requirements under PRC law may subject these lessors or us to fines or other penalties that may negatively affect our ability to utilize our oil storage depots, our biodiesel production facility or our retail gas stations. We are subject to a number of land and property-related legal requirements. For instance, under PRC law, all lease agreements are required to be registered with the local housing bureau. Currently, none of the owners of the oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility and some retail gas stations we operate and manage has obtained registrations or approval of their leases from the relevant regulatory authorities as required although we continue to request that they obtain such registrations or approvals. The failure of our lessors to register these leases and agreements as required by law or to have the leases approved may subject these lessors or us to fines, result in our being required to vacate the properties or other penalties which may negatively affect our ability to operate or use the biodiesel production facility, the oil storage depots and retail gas stations covered under those leases. Accidents or injuries in or around our oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility or retail gas stations may adversely affect our reputation and subject us to liability. There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries when working in or around our oil storage depots, biodiesel production facility or retail gas stations. Death and accidents could prevent us from renewing our safety production permits. One or more accidents or injuries at any of our oil storage depots or at our biodiesel production facility or retail gas stations could adversely affect our safety reputation among customers and potential customers and increase our costs if we are required to take additional measures to make our safety precautions more effective. If accidents or injuries occur, we may be held liable for costs related to the injuries. Our current insurance policy, which covers claims as a result of accidental injuries, may not provide adequate coverage and we may be unable to renew our insurance policies or obtain new insurance policies without increases in our insurance premiums or decreases in coverage levels. Power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist acts or other events could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by power shortages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other disruptive events in the PRC. For example, in early 2008, parts of the PRC were affected by severe snow storms that significantly impacted public transportation systems and the power supply in those areas. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in the PRC suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake had a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake and severely affected the transportation systems in those areas. Any future natural disasters, terrorist attacks or other disruptive events in the PRC could cause a reduction in usage of, or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we could experience delays or inaccuracies in our reporting of financial information, or non-compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, reporting and other regulatory requirements. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect our stock price. 32 If we require additional financing, we may not be able to find such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Our capital requirements may be accelerated as a result of many factors, including timing of development activities, underestimates of budget items, unanticipated expenses or capital expenditures, future product opportunities with collaborators and future business combinations. Our future growth strategy includes the construction or acquisition of biodiesel facilities that will enable us to produce more biodiesel fuel. Consequently, we may need to seek additional debt or equity financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, and which may be dilutive to our stockholders. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing debt securities, we may incur substantial interest obligations, may be required to pledge assets as security for the debt and may be constrained by restrictive financial and/or operational covenants. Debt financing would also be superior to our stockholders’ interest in bankruptcy or liquidation. Our insurance may not cover all claims made against us. Currently we have property and accidental injury insurance policies. If we were held liable for amounts and claims exceeding the limits of our insurance coverage or outside the scope of our insurance coverage, the costs to cover any such shortfalls could significantly reduce and put a strain on our available cash. In addition, we do not have any business disruption insurance coverage for our operations to cover losses that may be caused by natural disasters or other disruptive events, such as an epidemic of H1N1 virus, SARS or avian flu. Any business disruption or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action and a shareholder derivative lawsuit, which could result in substantial damages and may divert management's time and attention from our business We and certain of our officers and directors are named as defendants in a purported securities class action lawsuit, and in a shareholder derivative lawsuit, each described in more detail in "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." These lawsuits and any other related lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties, and the actual costs to be incurred relating to these lawsuits will depend upon many unknown factors. The outcome of the litigation is necessarily uncertain, and we could be forced to expend significant resources in the defense of these suits, and we may not prevail. Monitoring and defending against legal actions is time-consuming for our management and detracts from our ability to fully focus our internal resources on our business activities. In addition, we may incur substantial legal fees and costs in connection with the litigation. We are not currently able to estimate the possible cost to us from these matters, and we cannot be certain how long it may take to resolve the litigation or the possible amount of any damages that we may be required to pay. We have not established any reserves for any potential liability relating to these lawsuits. It is possible that we could, in the future, incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages. A decision adverse to our interests on these actions could result in the payment of substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, results of operations, financial position and stock price. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We rely on contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial and its stockholders for our operations in the PRC, which may not be as effective in providing control over Xi’an Baorun Industrial as direct ownership. We have no equity ownership interest in Xi’an Baorun Industrial, and rely on contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial and its stockholders to control and operate Xi’an Baorun Industrial. We describe these arrangements in more detail under “Our History and Corporate Structure — Corporate Structure — Contractual Agreements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Xi’an Baorun Industrial as direct ownership would be. For example, Xi’an Baorun Industrial could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Xi’an Baorun Industrial, or any of its stockholders, fails to perform their respective obligations under agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective. In addition, we may not be able to renew these agreements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial and its stockholders when they expire. 33 Our contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the United States and uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If the PRC government determines that the contractual arrangements that establish the structure for operating our business do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The government of the PRC restricts foreign investment in energy businesses (e.g., finished oil distribution and biodiesel production) in the PRC. Consequently, we operate our business in the PRC through contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial. Although we believe we comply with current regulations of the PRC, we cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations or other regulatory requirements and policies. If the PRC government determines that our structure or operating arrangements do not comply with applicable law, it could: · revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations; · restrict our right to collect revenues; · require us to restructure our operations; · impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply; · impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers; or · take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. In addition, the equity pledge among Redsky Industrial and Xi’an Baorun Industrial and Xi’an Baorun Industrial’s stockholders has not been registered and may be deemed to be invalid under PRC law. The controlling stockholder of Xi’an Baorun Industrial may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. Mr. Xincheng Gao, our chairman, chief executive officer and president is the controlling stockholder of Xi’an Baorun Industrial and through his equity ownership in Redsky Group Limited, or Redsky Group, our majority stockholder, Mr. Xincheng Gao is also a beneficial owner of our common stock. He is also a director of both Xi’an Baorun Industrial and us. Conflicts of interests among his roles as stockholder, officer and director of both Xi’an Baorun Industrial and us may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interests arise, he will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, he may breach or cause Xi’an Baorun Industrial to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to receive economic benefits from Xi’an Baorun Industrial. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interests between Mr. Xincheng Gao and us. We rely on Mr. Xincheng Gao to abide by the laws of Delaware, which provides that directors owe fiduciary duties to us, requiring them to act in good faith and in our best interests and not to use their positions for personal gains. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interests or disputes between us and Mr. Gao, in his capacity as the controlling stockholder of Xi’an Baorun Industrial, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business. Our contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and we could be required to pay additional taxes, which could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. 34 We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial were not priced at arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liabilities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by Xi’an Baorun Industrial, which could adversely affect us by increasing the tax liabilities of Xi’an Baorun Industrial. This increased tax liability could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to Xi’an Baorun Industrial for underpaid taxes. Any payments we make under these arrangements or adjustments in payments under these arrangements that we may decide to make in the future will be subject to the same risk. Prices for such services will be set prospectively and therefore we do not know whether any of the payments to be made under the contracts will or will not be considered at arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liabilities. Risks Related to Doing Business in China PRC laws and regulations restrict foreign investment in China’s finished oil products industry. We have entered into contractual agreements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial to control and realize the benefits of the business. We are relying upon PRC laws and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Since we are deemed to be foreign persons or foreign-funded enterprises under PRC laws and are restricted to invest in companies operating in the finished oil products industry, we operate our businesses in China through Xi’an Baorun Industrial, an operating company that is owned by PRC citizens and not by us. Accordingly, our Chinese subsidiary, Redsky Industrial, entered into a series of exclusive contractual agreements with Xi’an Baorun Industrial. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view these contractual arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. Because this structure has not been challenged or examined by PRC authorities, uncertainties exist as to whether the PRC government may interpret or apply the laws governing these arrangements in a way that is contrary to the opinion of our PRC counsel. If we, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Xi’an Baorun Industrial or the stockholders of Xi’an Baorun Industrial, were found to be in violation of any existing PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion to deal with such violation, including, but not limited to the following: · levying fines; · confiscating income; · revoking licenses; · requiring a restructure of ownership or operations; and/or · requiring the discontinuance of our businesses. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct our business operations and may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: ·the amount of government involvement; ·the level of development; 35 ·the growth rate; ·the control of foreign exchange; and ·the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The payment of dividends in the PRC is subject to limitations. We may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated subsidiaries and affiliated companies incorporated in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC, subject to certain statutory procedural requirements. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign owned enterprises is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of their respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. As of December 31, 2011, our PRC subsidiaries had allocated RMB36.1 million ($4.9 million) to these reserves, consisting of general and statutory reserves. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. There are significant uncertainties under the EIT Law regarding our PRC enterprise income tax liabilities, such as tax on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiary and tax on any dividends we pay to our non-PRC corporate stockholders. 36 The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of the PRC whose “de facto management bodies” are located in the PRC are considered as a “tax-resident enterprise” and are generally subject to the uniform 25.0% enterprise income tax rate on global income. Under the implementation regulations to EIT Law, “de facto management body” refers to a managing body that in practice exercises overall management control over the production and business, personnel, accounting and assets of an enterprise. In addition, on April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation of the PRC issued the Notice on the Issues Regarding Recognition of Overseas Incorporated Enterprises that are Domestically Controlled as PRC Resident Enterprises Based on the De Facto Management Body Criteria , which was retroactively effective as of January 1, 2008. This notice provides that an overseas incorporated enterprise that is controlled domestically will be recognized as a “tax-resident enterprise” if it satisfies all of the following conditions: (i) the senior management responsible for daily production/business operations are primarily located in the PRC, and the location(s) where such senior management execute their responsibilities are primarily in the PRC; (ii) strategic financial and personnel decisions are made or approved by organizations or personnel located in the PRC; (iii) major properties, accounting ledgers, company seals and minutes of board meetings and stockholder meetings, etc, are maintained in the PRC; and (iv) 50.0% or more of the board members with voting rights or senior management habitually reside in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “tax-resident enterprise,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25.0% on our worldwide income. This may have an impact on our effective tax rate, and may result in a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. In addition, dividends paid by us to our non-PRC corporate stockholders as well as gains realized by such stockholders from the sale or transfer of our stock may be subject to a PRC tax under the EIT Law, and we may be required to withhold PRC tax on dividends paid to our non-PRC corporate stockholders. In addition, under the EIT Law and the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion , or the Double Taxation Arrangement, which became effective on January 1, 2007, if both we and our Hong Kong subsidiary, Baorun Group, are considered as “non-tax-resident enterprises,” dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a rate of 5.0%. Furthermore, the ultimate tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiary. We are actively monitoring the application of the withholding tax and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to minimize the corresponding tax impact. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by significantly increasing our tax expenses. A number of PRC government initiatives promote the adoption of clean energy sources, such as biodiesel. For example, pursuant to the Renewable Energy Medium and Long-Term Development Plan issued by the NDRC in September 2007, the PRC targets to increase its consumption of energy from renewable sources to 15.0% of total energy consumption in the PRC by 2020. The plan also includes the promotion of renewable energy sources. Under the plan, the PRC aims to increase its annual consumption of biofuel, with the consumption of biodiesel targeted at two million tons per year by 2020. According to the Renewable Energy Law of the PRC , local governments are required to prepare a renewable energy development plan and provide financial support to renewable energy projects in rural areas. Further, the government may grant businesses engaged in biodiesel production certain benefits and incentives, while petroleum marketing enterprises are required to include biodiesel products that comply with the state standard with respect to fuel sales. These government initiatives could be modified or eliminated altogether. Such a change in policy could adversely affect the growth of the biodiesel market and cause our revenues to decline. Changes to or elimination of initiatives designed to increase general acceptance of clean energy sources could result in decreased demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that demand for our products will increase or that we will otherwise benefit from such regulations. For example, the PRC Ministry of Finance has issued the Temporary Regulation on the Management of Special Funds for the Development of Renewable Resources . Pursuant to this regulation, special funds will be provided to companies for the development of renewable resources, including petroleum substitutes. These funds may be used to promote advancement in the development of energy sources that compete with biodiesel, which may in turn reduce demand for biodiesel. 37 If environmental regulations are relaxed in the future, or if the enforcement of environmental regulations is not sufficiently rigorous, we may not be able to compete effectively against other manufacturers of energy products, including traditional and other clean energy source products. For example, under the Rules on the Management of Waste Oil for Food Producers , food producers must properly dispose of waste cooking oil or sell waste cooking oil to waste cooking oil processing entities or waste collection entities rather than discharging waste cooking oil into the environment or reusing it for human consumption. However, in practice, these rules may not be strictly enforced and waste oil may be disposed of through illegal means by some food producers, which would reduce the supply of waste cooking oil available for our production. Our business prospects and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result of any of the foregoing factors. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreak of contagious disease. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and the PRC. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our production facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to the market-oriented economies of member countries in the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development, or OECD. The economy of the PRC has historically been a nationalistic, “planned economy,” meaning it functions and produces according to governmental plans and pre-set targets or quotas. In certain aspects, the PRC’s economy has been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. However, there can be no assurance of the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have. The PRC economy also differs from the economies of most countries belonging to OECD, an international group of member countries sharing a commitment to democratic government and market economy. For instance: ·the number and importance of state-owned enterprises in the PRC is greater than in most OECD countries; ·the level of capital reinvestment is lower in the PRC than in most OECD countries; and ·Chinese policies make it more difficult for foreign firms to obtain local currency in China than in OECD jurisdictions. As a result of these differences, our operations may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of OECD member countries. The PRC economic cycle may negatively impact our operating results. The rapid growth of the PRC economy before 2008 generally led to higher levels of inflation. The PRC economy has more recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the Renminbi, or RMB, the currency of China, which has adversely affected China’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and the significance of the adverse impact it may have on the global economy in general, or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth and demand for our services which could reduce our revenues. In the event of a recovery in the PRC, renewed high growth levels may again lead to inflation. Government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in inflation. 38 Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has historically been set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a band against a basket of certain foreign currencies, determined by the Bank of China, against which it can rise or fall by as much as 0.3% each day. This change in policy resulted in an approximately 24.2% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and December 31, 2010. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated on a daily basis within narrow ranges, but overall has further strengthened against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to further liberalize its currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. In addition, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in the PRC may affect our ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict our ability to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, or otherwise satisfy foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay certain of our expenses as they come due. Our ability to implement our business plan is dependent on many factors, including our ability to receive various governmental permits. In accordance with PRC laws and regulations, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our business including, without limitation, a Safety Production Permit, an Approval Certificate for Wholesale Distribution of Finished Oil and a Dangerous Chemical Distribution License. We are required to comply with applicable production safety standards in relation to our production processes and our premises and equipment are subject to periodical inspections by regulatory authorities to ensure compliance with the dangerous chemical safety production laws and regulations and finished oil distribution and retail laws and regulations. Failure to pass these inspections, or the loss or suspension of some or all of our production activities, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. 39 Our business benefits from preferential tax treatment and changes to this treatment could adversely affect our operating results. Prior to the effectiveness of the EIT Law, the rate of income tax on companies in China may vary depending on the availability of preferential tax treatment or subsidies based on their industry or location. However, pursuant to the EIT Law, a uniform enterprise income tax of 25.0% is generally applied to all “tax-resident enterprises” under the EIT Law as to their global income, and “High and New Technology Enterprises” enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15.0%. Two notices issued by the local State Taxation Bureau stipulate that Xi’an Baorun Industrial is to enjoy an enterprise tax exemption for the years from 2004 to the end of 2010. Accordingly, Xi'an Baorun Industrial continued to enjoy such exemption until the expiration of the term of such exemption. The EIT Law further provides preferential tax treatment for enterprises which are qualified as “High and New Technology Enterprises” after January 1, 2008. Xi’an Baorun Industrial was qualified as a High and New Technology Enterprise in 2009 for a period of 3-year from 2009 to 2011. Thus, it will be subject to a 15.0% tax rate for 2011 in accordance with the EIT Law and other relevant regulations, if we are not able to extend the exemption of the corporate income tax for 2011. Given the short history of the EIT Law, uncertainties remain with respect to its future interpretation and implementation. We cannot guarantee that the preferential tax treatment granted to Xi’an Baorun Industrial will not be challenged and repealed by higher level tax authorities, or that any future implementation rules will be issued that are inconsistent with the current interpretation of the EIT Law. If our operating entities are unable to qualify for income tax holidays, our effective income tax rate will increase significantly and we may have to pay additional income taxes to make up for amounts previously unpaid. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring the control of any company outside of China for the purpose of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interest in a PRC company. Anytime such special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, have a major capital change event (including overseas equity or convertible bonds financing), all PRC resident stockholders must conduct a registration relating to the change within 30 days of occurrence of the event. On May 29, 2007, the SAFE issued an additional notice, clarifying some outstanding issues and providing standard operating procedures for implementing the prior notice. According to the new notice, the SAFE set up seven schedules that track registration requirements for offshore fundraising and roundtrip investments. In March 2008, Xincheng Gao, who indirectly controls our company, registered with the SAFE’s Shaanxi Branch. We understand that he plans to update his registration to reflect the latest capital changes to each of our SPVs. However, we cannot guarantee that the SAFE will issue the updated registration certificate in a timely manner. Further, pursuant to the above notices, if our PRC resident stockholders or beneficial owners such as Mr. Xincheng Gao fail to adhere to any of the registration requirements, or if they make any false representations to obtain the registration for roundtrip investments in onshore entities or the SPVs, they may face fines and other legal sanctions. In addition, such actions may also impede our ability to contribute additional capital or extend loans to our PRC subsidiaries, impede our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. We may face PRC regulatory risks relating to our equity incentive plan. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated a notice requiring PRC individuals who are granted stock options and other types of stock-based awards by an overseas publicly-listed company to obtain approval from the local SAFE branch through an agent of the overseas publicly-listed company (generally its PRC subsidiary or a financial institution). We have urged our PRC management personnel, directors, employees and consultants who have been granted stock options under our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan to register them with the local SAFE pursuant to the said regulation. However, we cannot ensure that each of these individuals have carried out all of the required registration procedures. 40 If we, or any of these persons, fail to comply with the relevant rules or requirements, we may be subject to penalties, and may become subject to more stringent review and approval processes with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as our PRC subsidiaries’ dividend payment to us or borrowing foreign currency loans, all of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by foreign investors may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, or the SASAC, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors , or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule purports, among other things, to require SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes through acquisitions of PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC companies or individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. Based on our understanding of current PRC laws, we are not sure whether the M&A Rule would require us or our entities in China to obtain the approval from the CSRC or any other regulatory agencies in connection with the transaction contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement we entered into on October 23, 2007. Further, if the PRC government finds that we or our Chinese stockholders did not obtain the CSRC approval, which the CSRC may think we should have obtained before executing the Share Exchange Agreement or conducting this offering, we could be subject to severe penalties. The M&A Rule does not stipulate the specific penalty terms, so we are not able to predict what penalties we may face, and how such penalties will affect our business operations or future strategy. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. We are dependent on our relationship with the local government in the province in which we operate our business. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. The central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past 27 years (1986-2013), the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 28.4% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Government regulations on environmental matters in China may adversely impact our business. Our production facilities are subject to numerous laws, regulations, rules and specifications relating to human health and safety and the environment. These laws and regulations address and regulate, among other matters, wastewater discharge, air quality and the generation, handling, storage, treatment, disposal and transportation of solid and hazardous wastes and releases of hazardous substances into the environment. In addition, third parties and governmental agencies in some cases have the power under such laws and regulations to require remediation of environmental conditions and, in the case of governmental agencies, to impose fines and penalties. We make capital expenditures from time to time to comply with applicable laws and regulations. 41 Pursuant to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations, construction or expansion of a production facility is subject to certain environment impact assessment procedures including obtaining the relevant environmental authorities’ approval for the construction project. All potential environmental liabilities may not have been identified or properly quantified and a prior owner, operator, or tenant may have created an environmental condition unknown to us. We may be potentially liable for damages or cleanup, investigation or remediation costs in connection with the ownership and operation of our properties (including locations to which we may have sent waste in the past) and the conduct of our business. State and local environmental regulatory requirements change often. Future laws, ordinances or regulations might impose material environmental liability or the current environmental condition of the properties could in the future be affected by the condition of land or operations in the vicinity of the properties (such as the presence of underground storage tanks), or by third parties unrelated to us. Moreover, it is possible that compliance with a new regulatory requirement could impose significant compliance costs on us. Such costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us and we may have limited legal recourse under PRC law if disputes arise under our contracts with third parties. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China in particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after violation. The Chinese government has enacted some laws and regulations dealing with matters such as corporate organization and governance, foreign investment, commerce, taxation and trade. However, their experience in implementing, interpreting and enforcing these laws and regulations is limited, and our ability to enforce commercial claims or to resolve commercial disputes is unpredictable. The resolution of these matters may be subject to the exercise of considerable discretion by agencies of the Chinese government, and forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter or dispute may influence their determination. Any rights we may have to specific performance, or to seek an injunction under PRC law, in either of these cases, are severely limited, and without a means of recourse by virtue of the Chinese legal system, we may be unable to prevent these situations from occurring. The occurrence of any such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Certain of our suppliers are owned by the PRC government and our dealings with them are likely to be considered to be with government officials for these purposes. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We could suffer severe penalties if our employees or other agents were found to have engaged in such practices. 42 Risks Related to Our Common Stock The outstanding warrants may adversely affect us in the future and cause dilution to existing stockholders. We currently have warrants outstanding to purchase up to 5,130,131 shares and 5,704,059 shares as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively of our common stock. The term of these warrants expire between August 2011 and 2013 and the exercise prices range from $3.00 to $10.00 per share. Exercise of the warrants may cause dilution in the equity interests of other stockholders as a result of the additional common stock that would be issued upon exercise. In addition, sales of the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants could have a depressive effect on the price of our stock, particularly if there is not a coinciding increase in demand by purchasers of our common stock. Further, the terms on which we may obtain additional financing during the period any of the warrants remain outstanding may be adversely affected by the existence of these warrants. Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. Stock markets, in general, have experienced in recent months, and continue to experience, significant price and volume volatility, and the market price of our common stock may continue to be subject to similar market fluctuations unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. This increased volatility, coupled with depressed economic conditions, could continue to have a depressing effect on the market price of our common stock. Over the past 12 months, the sales price of our common stock has fluctuated between $1.05 and $0.22. The following factors, many of which are beyond our control, may influence our stock price: ·announcements of technological or competitive developments; ·regulatory developments in the PRC affecting us, our customers or our competitors; ·announcements regarding patent or other intellectual property litigation or the issuance of patents to us or our competitors or updates with respect to the enforceability of patents or other intellectual property rights generally in the PRC or internationally; ·actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; ·changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; ·changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our competitors; ·addition or departure of our executive officers; ·release or expiration of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common stock; and ·sales or perceived sales of additional shares of our common stock. In addition, the securities market has, from time to time, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. Any of these factors could result in large and sudden changes in the volume and trading price of our common stock and could cause our stockholders to incur substantial losses. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we were involved in a class action suit or other securities litigation, it would divert the attention of our senior management, require us to incur significant expense and, whether or not adversely determined, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Presently, we intend to retain all of our earnings, if any, to finance development and expansion of our business. PRC capital and currency regulations may also limit our ability to pay dividends. Consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a positive return on your investment in us will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates. 43 The investors’ ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officer, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, will be limited because we conduct substantially all of our operations in the PRC and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for investors to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law . Courts in the PRC may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between the PRC and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. The PRC does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law , courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our common stock. We are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. This provision generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless: · prior to such date, the board of directors approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; · upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85.0% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the number of shares outstanding those shares owned by persons who are directors and officers and by employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or · on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by the Board of Directors and authorized at an annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least 66.7% of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. Section 203 defines a business combination to include: · any merger or consolidation involving the corporation and the interested stockholder; · any sale, transfer, pledge or other disposition of 10.0% or more of the assets of the corporation involving the interested stockholder; · subject to certain exceptions, any transaction that results in the issuance or transfer by the corporation of any stock of the corporation to the interested stockholder; · any transaction involving the corporation that has the effect of increasing the proportionate share of the stock of any class or series of the corporation beneficially owned by the interested stockholder; or · the receipt by the interested stockholder of the benefit of any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial benefits provided by or through the corporation. 44 In general, Section 203 defines an “interested stockholder” as any entity or person beneficially owning 15.0% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation, or an affiliate or associate of the corporation and was the owner of 15.0% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation at any time within three years prior to the time of determination of interested stockholder status; and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by such entity or person. Anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, may make it more difficult to acquire our company or effect a change in control of our company, even if an acquisition or change in control would be in the interest of our stockholders or if an acquisition or change in control would provide our stockholders with a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging potential acquisition proposals or tender offers or delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including changes a stockholder might consider favorable. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as applicable, among other things, provide that: · our Board of Directors shall have the ability to alter our bylaws without stockholder approval; · vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of directors in office, although less than a quorum. Such provisions may have the effect of discouraging a third party from acquiring our company, even if doing so would be beneficial to its stockholders. These provisions are intended to enhance the likelihood of continuity and stability in the composition of our board of directors and in the policies formulated by them, and to discourage some types of transactions that may involve an actual or threatened change in control of our company. These provisions are designed to reduce our vulnerability to an unsolicited acquisition proposal and to discourage some tactics that may be used in proxy fights. However, these provisions could have the effect of discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares. These provisions also may have the effect of preventing changes in our management. One of our directors and officers controls a majority of our common stock and his interests may not align with the interests of our other stockholders. Mr. Xincheng Gao, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, through Redsky Group, which he controls, currently beneficially owns approximately 49.3% of our issued and outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2011. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive a disadvantage in owning shares in a company with one or several controlling stockholders. Furthermore, our directors and officers, as a group, have the ability to significantly influence or control the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidations or the sale of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our common stock. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Gao or Redsky Group, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Mr. Gao or Redsky Group may cause us to take actions that are opposed by other stockholders as his interests may differ from those of other stockholders. Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We continue to evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may sell businesses or product lines. For example, subsequent to 2011, our management has sold majority of our retail petrol station. Any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business, a significant portion of the business or product line. We have disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to our ability to comply with timely disclosure requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which has an adverse affect our ability to report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows accurately and on a timely basis. In connection with our assessment of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the timely filing of financial information pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have determined that further improvements are required in our accounting processes and personnel before we can consider the material weakness remediated. Management's procedures and testing identified errors that, although not material to the consolidated financial statements, led management to conclude that control deficiencies exist related to the timely production and filing of financial information. As a result of these deficiencies, it is reasonably possible that internal controls over financial reporting may not have prevented or detected errors from occurring that could have been material, either individually or in the aggregate. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. While considerable actions have been taken and are underway to improve our internal controls in response to the identified material weakness related to certain aspects of preparing consolidated financial statements on a timely basis, and further action steps to strengthen controls have been taken, additional work continues to address and remediate the identified material weakness. If we are unsuccessful in implementing or following our remediation plan, we may not be able to timely or accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the SEC, which could adversely affect the valuation of our common stock and could adversely affect our business prospects. 45 Future issuances of capital stock may depress the trading price of our common stock. Any issuance of shares of our common stock after this offering could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of common stock in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic collaborations or other transactions). Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could depress the market price of our common stock, and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock or other equity-related securities would have on the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. As a non-accelerated filer this disclosure is not required. 