ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS We have a history of losses, expect future losses and cannot assure you that we will achieve profitability on a consistent basis. We expect to derive substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future from the licensing of Saba’s Human Capital Management (“HCM”) software suite, including online learning and collaboration software acquired in connection with the acquisition of Centra Software, Inc. (“Centra”) in January 2006, and providing 11 Table of Contents related services. We cannot be certain that we will realize sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. In the future, we expect to continue to incur non-cash expenses relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets that will contribute to our net losses, along with any potential goodwill impairment. As of May 31, 2006, we had $20.4 million of purchased intangible assets to be amortized as a result of our January 2006 acquisition of Centra and May 2005 acquisition of THINQ Learning Solutions, Inc. (“THINQ”) and our remaining goodwill balance was $38.2 million. Further, starting with the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we will be required to record as an expense charges related to all current outstanding and future grants of stock options in our reported results from operations in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004) (“No. 123R”), Share Based Payments, which was issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) in December 2004. This will make it significantly more difficult for us to achieve profitability and as a result, we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We will need to generate significantly higher revenues and manage expenses in order to achieve profitability or control negative cash flows. If we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain it on a consistent basis. Fluctuations in our quarterly results could cause our stock price to experience significant fluctuations or declines. Our operating results have varied significantly in the past and will likely fluctuate significantly in the future. For instance, in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, our quarterly revenues have fluctuated between approximately $23.0 million and $7.8 million and our quarterly net income (loss) fluctuated between approximately $131,000 and $(5.9) million. Our quarterly operating results are particularly affected by the number of customers licensing our products during any quarter and the size of such licensing transactions. We have limited visibility into our future revenue, especially license revenue, which often has been heavily concentrated in the third month of each quarter. As a result, if we were to fail to close a sufficient number of transactions at the end of our quarter, particularly large license transactions, we would miss our revenue projections. In addition, since we forecast our expenses based in part on future revenue projections, our operating results would be adversely affected if we cannot meet those revenue projections. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • The demand for our products and professional services and our efficiency in rendering our professional services; • The variability in the mix of our revenues in any quarter; • The variability in the mix of the type of services delivered in any quarter and the extent to which third party contractors are used to provide such services; • The size and complexity of our license transactions and potential delays in recognizing revenue from license transactions; • The amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • The performance of our international business, which accounts for a substantial part of our consolidated revenues; and • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Due to these and other factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. It is possible that in some future quarter our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Our operating expenses are based on our expectations of future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short-term. During fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, we took actions to reduce our operating expenses and, while we may from time to time reduce operating expenses in response to variability in our revenues, including variability 12 Table of Contents caused by downturns in the United States and/or international economies, over the long term, we generally expect to increase our operating expenses to expand our sales and marketing operations, fund greater levels of research and development, develop new alliances, increase our services and support capabilities and improve our operational and financial systems. If our revenues do not increase along with these expenses, our business would be seriously harmed and net losses in a given quarter would be even larger than expected. We may undertake future restructuring to align such expenses with revenues. We experience seasonality in our sales, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We experience quarterly seasonality in the licensing of our products and delivery of our services. For example, revenue has historically been lower in our first fiscal quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth fiscal quarter. Contributing to this seasonality is the timing of our first fiscal quarter that occurs during the summer months when general business activities slow down in a number of territories where we conduct our operations, particularly Europe. Our commission structure and other sales incentives also tend to result in fewer sales in the first fiscal quarter than in the fourth fiscal quarter. These seasonal variations in our revenue are likely to lead to fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. A decline in the price of, or demand for, our products or our related services offerings, would seriously harm our revenues and operating margins. To date, Saba Enterprise Learning and related services have accounted for a substantial majority of our revenues. We anticipate that revenues from Saba Enterprise Learning and Centra’s software, as well as related services, will continue to constitute a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a decline in the price of, or demand for, Saba Enterprise Learning or Centra’s software or failure to achieve broad market acceptance would seriously harm our business. If our new products, including Saba Enterprise Performance, fail to achieve market acceptance, our reliance on Saba Enterprise Learning and Centra’s software will deepen. Our products have a long sales cycle, which increases the cost of completing sales and renders completion of sales less predictable. The period between our initial contact with a potential customer and the purchase of our products and services is often long. A customer’s decision to purchase our products and services requires the commitment to increase performance through human capital management, involves a significant allocation of resources, and is influenced by a customer’s budgetary cycles. To successfully sell our products and services, we generally must educate our potential customers regarding the use and benefits of our products and services. We may commit a substantial amount of time and resources to potential customers without assurance that any sales will be completed or revenues generated. Many of our potential customers are large enterprises that generally take longer to make significant business decisions. Our public sector customers, in particular, are subject to extensive procurement procedures that require many reviews and approvals. Our typical sales cycle has been approximately six to 12 months, making it difficult to predict the quarter in which we may recognize revenue. The delay or failure to complete sales in a particular quarter could reduce our revenues in that quarter. If our sales cycle were to unexpectedly lengthen in general or for one or more large orders, it would adversely affect the timing of our revenues. If we were to experience a delay on a large order, it could harm our ability to meet our forecasts for a given quarter. Our performance depends on a new market: human capital management. The market for software solutions that automate human capital management is at an early stage of development and rapidly evolving. Substantially all of our revenues are attributable to the suite of products and services in this market. If this market fails to develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business 13 Table of Contents would be harmed. If the market grows, the prices of our products may decline rapidly as alternative products are introduced into the market. In addition, our products may become obsolete if we fail to anticipate or adapt to evolving technology standards, or if we fail to identify the challenges and risks in this new market or successfully address these risks. The Centra acquisition may result in dilution of future earnings per share. The Centra acquisition may not result in improved earnings per share for us or a financial condition superior to that which would have been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. The acquisition could fail to produce the benefits that we anticipate, or could have other adverse effects that we do not foresee. In addition, some of the assumptions that we have made, such as the achievement of operating synergies, may not be realized. In this event, the merger could result in a reduction of earnings per share for us as compared to the earnings per share that would have been achieved by us if the merger had not occurred. Under SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets purchased goodwill should not be amortized, but rather, should be periodically reviewed for impairment. Such impairment could be caused by internal factors as well as external factors beyond our control. If future events cause additional impairment of any intangible assets acquired in the Centra acquisition or any other of our past or future acquisitions, we may have to record charges relating to such assets sooner than we expect which would cause our profits to decline. The FASB has further determined that at the time goodwill is considered impaired, an amount equal to the impairment loss should be charged as an operating expense in the statement of operations. The timing of such an impairment (if any) of goodwill acquired in past and future transactions is uncertain and difficult to predict. Our results of operations in periods following any such impairment could be materially adversely affected. We are required to determine whether goodwill and any assets acquired in past acquisitions have been impaired in accordance with FAS 142 and, if so, charge such impairment as an expense. We have goodwill of approximately $38.2 million at May 31, 2006, so if we are required to take such impairment charges in the future, the amounts could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market by Centra stockholders could depress our stock price. Other than shares held by affiliates of ours, shares of our common stock that were issued to stockholders of Centra as consideration for the acquisition will be effectively freely tradable by the stockholders of Centra with limited to no restrictions and no further registration required under the Securities Act. If Centra’s stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market following the acquisition, the market price of our common stock may decrease substantially. If we are not successful in integrating Centra, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will depend, in part, on the integration of technology, operations and personnel of us and Centra. We cannot assure that the integration will be successful or that the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will be fully realized. The challenges involved in this integration include the following: • Satisfying the needs of the combined company’s customers in a timely manner; • Persuading our employees and the former employees of Centra that we retained that Centra’s former business culture is compatible with our business culture, and retaining the combined company’s key personnel; • Realizing anticipated cost synergies within the expected time period; • Maintaining the dedication of our management resources to integration activities without diverting attention from the day-to-day business of the combined company; 14 Table of Contents • Maintaining our management’s ability to focus on anticipating, responding to or utilizing changing technologies in our and Centra’s industry; • Maintaining our and Centra’s former key supplier relationships; and • Competing with the introduction of new, disruptive technologies to the marketplace which could reduce our market share prior to the successful integration of Centra. In addition, we intend to more tightly integrate Centra’s products and intellectual property with our products and intellectual property. This may result in longer product development cycles, which may cause the revenue and operating income to fluctuate and fail to meet expectations. It is not certain that we can successfully integrate Centra in a timely manner or at all or that any of the anticipated benefits will be realized. In addition, we cannot assure that there will not be substantial unanticipated costs associated with the integration process, that integration activities will not result in a decrease in revenues or a decrease in the value of our common stock, or that there will not be other material adverse effects from our integration efforts. If we are unable to successfully integrate Centra, or if the benefits of the acquisition do not meet the expectations of financial or industry analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. Changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies, particularly those related to revenue recognition and stock-based compensation expense, could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue or to report lower earnings per share. While we believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition, as amended, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants continues to issue implementation guidelines for these standards and the accounting profession continues to discuss a wide range of potential interpretations. Additional implementation guidelines, and changes in interpretations of such guidelines, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices that could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue to future periods or to recognize lower revenue. The FASB has adopted SFAS No. 123R, which requires us to recognize as an expense stock-based compensation to employees based on their fair values, and eliminates the ability to account for stock-based compensation using the intrinsic value method in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (“APB”) Opinion No. 25. As a result, when we record an expense for our stock-based compensation plans using the fair value method beginning in fiscal year 2007, we will have significant compensation charges which will adversely affect our operating results, particularly when compared to previous fiscal periods prior to the effectiveness of SFAS No. 123R. For example, for the fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, had we accounted for stock-based compensation plans under SFAS No. 123 using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model, we estimate that basic and diluted net loss per share, using the fair value method, would have been increased by $0.31, $0.49 and $0.89 per share, respectively. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. We are in the process of documenting and testing our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires an annual management assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our Independent Auditors addressing this assessment. Depending on our market capitalization on November 30, 2006, we will be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for either the fiscal year ended May 31, 2007 or May 31, 2008. During the course of our testing we may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses which we may not be able to remediate prior to our fiscal year end. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain 15 Table of Contents the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could drop significantly. The loss of our senior executives and key personnel would likely cause our business to suffer. Our ability to implement a successful long-term strategy, strengthen our competitive position, expand our customer base, and develop and support our products depends to a significant degree on the performance of the senior management team and other key employees, including Bobby Yazdani, our CEO. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain additional personnel with the highly specialized expertise necessary to generate revenue and to engineer, design and support our products and services. Like other software companies, we face intense competition for qualified personnel. We may not be able to attract or retain such personnel. Intense competition in our target market could impair our ability to grow and achieve profitability on a consistent basis. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive, dynamic and subject to rapid technological change. The intensity of the competition and the pace of change are expected to increase in the future. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could seriously harm our business. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services offered. We encounter competition with respect to different aspects of our solution from a variety of sources including: • Companies that offer training, learning, performance, content, resource, talent and staffing management systems, such as SAP, Oracle, SumTotal and other private companies; • Companies that offer collaboration solutions, such as Microsoft or WebEx; • Enterprise software vendors that offer human resources information systems and employee relationship management systems with training and performance modules; • Potential customers’ internal development efforts; • Companies that operate Internet-based marketplaces for the sale of on-line learning; and • Internet portals that offer learning content, performance support tools or recruiting, talent and staffing management services. We expect competition from a variety of companies. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do, enabling them to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Such resources also enable our competitors to withstand prolonged periods of negative cash flows and unfavorable economic, political and market conditions. Competition could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products and services obsolete, unmarketable or less competitive. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other partners, thereby increasing the availability of their services to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, and competitive pressures that we encounter may seriously harm our business. 16 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the complexity of conducting business globally, our international revenues may suffer. International revenues accounted for 28%, 42%, and 44% of our revenues for our fiscal years ended May 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Although we intend to continue to expand our international presence, in the future we may not be able to successfully market, sell or distribute our products and services in foreign markets. The reallocation of certain design, development and testing functions from the United States to our lower-cost development center in India intensifies our exposure to international uncertainties. Factors that could materially adversely affect our international operations, and our business and future growth include: • Difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including language barriers; • Difficulties in maintaining control over product development and quality, and timing of product releases; • Seasonal fluctuations in purchasing patterns in other countries, particularly declining sales during July and August in European markets; • Difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries, particularly European countries in which collections take considerably more time than the United States and collections are more difficult to effect; • Currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly in countries where we sell our products in denominations other than U.S. dollars, such as in the United Kingdom, the Euro zone, Australia and Japan, or have exposures in inter-company accounts denominated in foreign currencies; • Exposure to tax regimes of multiple countries and potential increased tax exposure relating to in-country profits as well as audits and assessments relating to transfer pricing matters; • Costs attributable to development of internationalized versions of our products and marketing and sales materials; • The burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • Tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers; and • Exposure to geopolitical instability, natural disasters and acts of war or terrorism. Future acquisitions may result in disruptions to our business if we fail to adequately integrate acquired businesses. We acquired Centra Software, Inc. in January 2006 and THINQ Learning Solutions, Inc. in May 2005. As part of our overall business strategy, we expect to continue to acquire complementary businesses or technologies that will provide additional products or services offerings, additional industry expertise or an expanded geographic presence. These acquisitions could result in the use of significant amounts of cash, the incurrence of debt or potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities which may reduce earnings per share. In addition, any acquisition may increase the risk of future write-offs for acquired in-process research and development, write-offs for the impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets or amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and our operating results. For example, as of May 31, 2006, our remaining goodwill balance was $38.2 million. Acquisitions that we complete expose us to numerous risks, including: • Difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • The diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • Risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; 17 Table of Contents • The potential loss of key employees, significant customers and strategic partners of the acquired company; and • Exposure to claims by terminated employees, stockholders of the acquired company or other third parties related to the acquisition. Although we generally obtain indemnification and other contractual protection against such claims, we cannot assure that they will be enforceable or sufficient to protect us. Delays in releasing new products or enhanced versions of our existing products could adversely affect our competitive position. As part of our strategy, we expect to regularly release new products and new versions of our existing products. Even if our new products or new versions of our existing products contain the features and functionality our customers want, in the event we are unable to timely introduce these new products or product releases, our competitive position may be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the development of currently planned or future products or product releases in a timely and efficient manner. Due to the complexity of our products, internal quality assurance testing and customer testing of pre-commercial releases may reveal product performance issues or desirable feature enhancements that could lead us to postpone the release of these products. In addition, the reallocation of resources associated with any postponement would likely cause delays in the development and release of other future products or enhancements to our currently available products. The reallocation of certain design, development and testing functions to our new lower-cost development center heightens risks relating to product design, development, testing and introduction. Any delay in releasing future products or enhancements of our products could harm our business. If we release products containing defects, we may need to halt further shipments and our business and reputation would be harmed. Products as complex as ours often contain unknown and undetected errors or performance problems. Although our products are subject to rigorous testing and quality control processes, serious defects are frequently found during the period immediately following introduction and initial shipment of new products or enhancements to existing products. Although we attempt to resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before shipment to them, our products are not error-free. These errors or performance problems could result in lost revenues or delays in customer acceptance and would be detrimental to our business and reputation. As is typical in the software industry, with each release we have discovered errors in our products after introduction. We will not be able to detect and correct all errors before releasing our products commercially and these undetected errors could be significant. We cannot assure you that undetected errors or performance problems in our existing or future products will not be discovered in the future or that known errors considered minor by us will not be considered serious by our customers, resulting in cancellation of orders, loss of customers, difficulties in achieving our sales goals, increased demands on our support services and a decrease in our revenues. To correct such errors, we may expend considerable time and resources to develop and release modifications to our software. As a result of such errors, we may be subject to warranty and product liability claims that are costly or difficult to settle. Our products and services enable customers to manage critical business information. If product errors are alleged to cause or contribute to security and privacy breaches or misappropriation of confidential information, we may also be subject to significant liability. Although our license agreements contain provisions intended to limit our exposure to liability, we cannot assure that these limits will be adequate, that they will be enforceable or, if enforceable, that they will be interpreted favorably by a court. Claims by third parties that we infringe their intellectual property rights may result in costly litigation. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights, particularly in the software and Internet-related industries. We have in the past been 18 Table of Contents and are presently subject to an intellectual property action. On August 19, 2003, EdiSync Systems, LLC filed a complaint against Centra in federal court in Denver, Colorado, alleging infringement of two patents for a remote multiple user editing system and method and seeking to enjoin us from continuing to sell our products, as well as unspecified compensatory damages. Although we believe that we have meritorious defenses and intend to vigorously defend this action, we can give no assurance that we will be able to achieve a satisfactory outcome. We could become subject to additional intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our products and services overlap with competitive offerings. Any of these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive to defend and could divert management’s attention from operating the company. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial award of damages and to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the products that contain the infringing intellectual property. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, agreements with our customers typically include indemnity provisions requiring us to hold these customers harmless against specified losses arising from third party claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount of liability under any indemnification obligations, whether or not asserted, due to the unique facts and circumstances that are likely to be involved in each particular claim. We may not be able to secure necessary funding in the future; additional funding may result in dilution to our stockholders. We require substantial working capital to fund our business. Historically, we have had significant operating losses and negative cash flow from operations. We expect to use our available cash resources and credit facilities primarily to fund sales and marketing activities, research and development and continued operations, and possibly make future acquisitions. We believe that our existing capital resources will be sufficient to meet our capital requirements for the next twelve months. However, if our capital requirements increase materially from those currently planned or if revenues fail to materialize, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. If additional funds are raised through the issuance of equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, stockholders may experience dilution or such equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. Alternatively, or in addition to equity financing, we may incur additional debt to raise funds. Additional equity or debt financing may not be available when needed on terms favorable to us or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary technology, and our competitors may be able to offer similar products and services that would harm our competitive position. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees. Despite these precautions, third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology without authorization, which may represent potential sales and revenue losses that are difficult to quantify. Policing unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, time-consuming and costly. Were we to discover instances of unauthorized use, there can be no assurance that we would be able to enforce our proprietary rights or obtain adequate recovery for our losses. In addition, we have six patents issued in the United States and six patent applications pending in the United States. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued for any of the pending patent applications. Even for the issued patents, or any patent issued to us in the future, there can be no assurance that such patent will protect our intellectual property, or will not be challenged by third parties. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in certain foreign countries. We cannot assure you that the protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products and services or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. 19 Table of Contents Our disaster recovery plan does not include redundant systems, and a disaster could severely damage our operations. Our disaster recovery plan does not include fully redundant systems for our services at an alternate site. A disaster could severely harm our business because our services could be interrupted for an indeterminate length of time. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect the computer systems needed for the day-to-day operation of the Saba OnDemand business. A number of these computer systems are located on or near known earthquake fault zones. Although these systems are designed to be fault-tolerant, the systems are vulnerable to damage from fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures and other events. Additionally, we do not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate us for all potential losses that could occur. We outsource the management and maintenance of our OnDemand business to third parties and will depend upon them to provide adequate management and maintenance services. We rely on third parties to provide key components of our networks and systems. For instance, we rely on third-party Internet service providers to host our products for our OnDemand customers. We also rely on third-party communications service providers for the high-speed connections that link our and our Internet service providers’ Web servers and office systems to the Internet. Our reliance on third party providers limits our ability to control critical customer service functions and communications systems. Any Internet or communications systems failure or interruption could result in disruption of our service or loss or compromise of customer orders and data. These failures, especially if they are prolonged or repeated, would make our services less attractive to customers and tarnish our reputation. We depend upon continuing relationships with third-party integrators who support our solutions. Our success depends upon the acceptance and successful integration by customers of our products. We often rely on third-party systems integrators to assist with implementation of our products. We must continue to rely on these systems integrators even as we increase the size of our professional services group. If large systems integrators fail to continue to support our solution or commit resources to us, if any of our customers are not able to successfully integrate our solution or if we are unable to adequately train our existing systems integration partners, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. Although we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our third party providers perform to our standards, we have only limited control over the level and quality of service provided by our current and future third-party integrators. Our stock price may fluctuate substantially. For example, from the beginning of fiscal 2004 through the end of fiscal 2006, the market price for our common stock has fluctuated between $6.75 per share and $3.00 per share. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including those described above and the following: • The announcement of new products and services or product and service enhancements by us or our competitors; • Actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our competitors; • Changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts that may follow our stock; • Developments in our industry, including announcements of significant acquisitions or strategic partnerships; and • General market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly the Nasdaq National Market) technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have 20 Table of Contents often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. Broad market and industry trends may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock may prevent our stockholders from selling their shares at a favorable price. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been initiated against that company. Class-action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. The anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could delay or prevent a change in control. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. For example, if a potential acquiror were to make a hostile bid for us, the acquiror would not be able to call a special meeting of stockholders to remove our board of directors or act by written consent without a meeting. In addition, our board of directors has staggered terms that make it difficult to remove all directors at once. The acquiror would also be required to provide advance notice of its proposal to remove directors at an annual meeting. The acquiror will not be able to cumulate votes at a meeting, which will require the acquiror to hold more shares to gain representation on the board of directors than if cumulative voting were permitted. Our board of directors also has the ability to issue preferred stock that would significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquiror. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combination transactions with 15% stockholders that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate with an acquiror that it did not feel was in our strategic interests. If the acquiror was discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by our anti-takeover measures, our stockholders could lose the opportunity to sell their shares at a favorable price. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 