ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. As the owner and operator of correctional and detention facilities, we are subject to certain risks and uncertainties associated with, among other things, the corrections and detention industry and pending or threatened litigation in which we are involved. In addition, we are also currently subject to risks associated with our indebtedness as well as our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes effective for our taxable year beginning January 1, 2013. The risks and uncertainties set forth below could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements contained herein and elsewhere. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our results of operations are dependent on revenues generated by our jails, prisons, and detention facilities, which are subject to the following risks associated with the corrections and detention industry. We are subject to fluctuations in occupancy levels, and a decrease in occupancy levels could cause a decrease in revenues and profitability. While a substantial portion of our cost structure is fixed, a substantial portion of our revenue is generated under facility ownership and management contracts that specify per diem payments based upon daily occupancy. We are dependent upon the governmental agencies with which we have contracts to provide inmates for our managed facilities. We cannot control occupancy levels at our managed facilities. Under a per diem rate structure, a decrease in our occupancy rates could cause a decrease in revenue and profitability. Average compensated occupancy for our facilities in 26 Table of Contents operation for 2012, 2011, and 2010 was 88.2%, 89.9%, and 90.3%, respectively. Occupancy rates may, however, decrease below these levels in the future. When combined with relatively fixed costs for operating each facility, a decrease in occupancy levels could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent on government appropriations and our results of operations may be negatively affected by governmental budgetary challenges. Our cash flow is subject to the receipt of sufficient funding of and timely payment by contracting governmental entities. If the appropriate governmental agency does not receive sufficient appropriations to cover its contractual obligations, it may terminate our contract or delay or reduce payment to us. Any delays in payment, or the termination of a contract, could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition. In addition, federal, state and local governments are constantly under pressure to control additional spending or reduce current levels of spending. These pressures have been compounded by the current economic downturn. Accordingly, we have been requested and may be requested in the future to reduce our existing per diem contract rates or forego prospective increases to those rates. Further, our customers could reduce inmate population levels in facilities we own or manage to contain their correctional costs. In addition, it may become more difficult to renew our existing contracts on favorable terms or otherwise. Competition for inmates may adversely affect the profitability of our business. We compete with government entities and other private operators on the basis of bed availability, cost, quality, and range of services offered, experience in managing facilities and reputation of management and personnel. While there are barriers to entering the market for the ownership and management of correctional and detention facilities, these barriers may not be sufficient to limit additional competition. In addition, our government customers may assume the management of a facility that they own and we currently manage for them upon the termination of the corresponding management contract or, if such customers have capacity at their facilities, may take inmates currently housed in our facilities and transfer them to government-run facilities. Since we are paid on a per diem basis with no minimum guaranteed occupancy under most of our contracts, the loss of such inmates and resulting decrease in occupancy would cause a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Escapes, inmate disturbances, and public resistance to privatization of correctional and detention facilities could result in our inability to obtain new contracts or the loss of existing contracts. The operation of correctional and detention facilities by private entities has not achieved complete acceptance by either governments or the public. The movement toward privatization of correctional and detention facilities has also encountered resistance from certain groups, such as labor unions and others that believe that correctional and detention facilities should only be operated by governmental agencies. Moreover, negative publicity about an escape, riot or other disturbance or perceived poor conditions at a privately managed facility may result in adverse publicity to us and the private corrections industry in general. Any of these occurrences or continued trends may make it more difficult for us to renew or maintain existing contracts or to obtain new contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to terminations, non-renewals, or competitive re-bids of our government contracts. We typically enter into facility contracts with governmental entities for terms of up to five years, with additional renewal periods at the option of the contracting governmental agency. Notwithstanding any contractual renewal option of a contracting governmental agency, 38 of our facility contracts with the customers listed under “Business – Facility Portfolio – Facilities and Facility Management Contracts” are currently scheduled to 27 Table of Contents expire on or before December 31, 2013 but have renewal options (33), or are currently scheduled to expire on or before December 31, 2013 and have no renewal options (5). Although we generally expect these customers to exercise renewal options or negotiate new contracts with us, one or more of these contracts may not be renewed by the corresponding governmental agency. In addition, these and any other contracting agencies may determine not to exercise renewal options with respect to any of our contracts in the future. Our government partners can also re-bid contracts in a competitive procurement process upon termination or non-renewal of our contract. Competitive re-bids may result from the expiration of the term of a contract, including the initial term and any renewal periods, or the early termination of a contract. Competitive re-bids are often required by applicable federal or state procurement laws periodically in order to further competitive pricing and other terms for the government agency. The Florida Department of Management Services has issued a competitive procurement for three facilities owned by the state of Florida that we currently manage under contracts that expire in the third quarter of 2013. We can provide no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining the contracts to manage these facilities. We do not believe the loss of any of these contracts would have a material impact on our results of operations. Based on information available at this filing, notwithstanding the competitive procurement for three of the facilities we manage in Florida, we believe we will renew all other contracts that have expired or are scheduled to expire within the next twelve months. We believe our renewal rate on existing contracts remains high as a result of a variety of reasons including, but not limited to, the constrained supply of available beds within the U.S. correctional system, our ownership of the majority of the beds we operate, and the quality of our operations. Governmental agencies typically may terminate a facility contract at any time without cause or use the possibility of termination to negotiate a lower per diem rate. In the event any of our contracts are terminated or are not renewed on favorable terms or otherwise, we may not be able to obtain additional replacement contracts. The non-renewal, termination, or competitive re-bid of any of our contracts with governmental agencies could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, including our ability to secure new facility contracts from others. Our ability to secure new contracts to develop and manage correctional and detention facilities depends on many factors outside our control. Our growth is generally dependent upon our ability to obtain new contracts to develop and manage new correctional and detention facilities. This possible growth depends on a number of factors we cannot control, including crime rates and sentencing patterns in various jurisdictions, governmental budgetary constraints, and governmental and public acceptance of privatization. The demand for our facilities and services could be adversely affected by the relaxation of enforcement efforts, leniency in conviction or parole standards and sentencing practices or through the decriminalization of certain activities that are currently proscribed by criminal laws. For instance, any changes with respect to drugs and controlled substances or illegal immigration could affect the number of persons arrested, convicted, and sentenced, thereby potentially reducing demand for correctional facilities to house them. Immigration reform laws are currently a focus for legislators and politicians at the federal, state, and local level. Legislation has also been proposed in numerous jurisdictions that could lower minimum sentences for some non-violent crimes and make more inmates eligible for early release based on good behavior. Also, sentencing alternatives under consideration could put some offenders on probation with electronic monitoring who would otherwise be incarcerated. Similarly, reductions in crime rates or resources dedicated to prevent and enforce crime could 28 Table of Contents lead to reductions in arrests, convictions and sentences requiring incarceration at correctional facilities. Our policy prohibits us from engaging in lobbying or advocacy efforts that would influence enforcement efforts, parole standards, criminal laws, and sentencing policies. Moreover, certain jurisdictions recently have required successful bidders to make a significant capital investment in connection with the financing of a particular project, a trend that will require us to have sufficient capital resources to compete effectively. We may compete for such projects with companies that have more financial resources than we have. Further, we may not be able to obtain the capital resources when needed. A prolonged downturn in the financial credit markets could make it more difficult to obtain capital resources at favorable rates of return or obtain capital resources at all. We may face community opposition to facility location, which may adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts. Our success in obtaining new awards and contracts sometimes depends, in part, upon our ability to locate land that can be leased or acquired, on economically favorable terms, by us or other entities working with us in conjunction with our proposal to construct and/or manage a facility. Some locations may be in or near populous areas and, therefore, may generate legal action or other forms of opposition from residents in areas surrounding a proposed site. When we select the intended project site, we attempt to conduct business in communities where local leaders and residents generally support the establishment of a privatized correctional or detention facility. Future efforts to find suitable host communities may not be successful. We may incur substantial costs in evaluating the feasibility of the development of a correctional or detention facility. As a result, we may report significant charges if we decide to abandon efforts to develop a correctional or detention facility on a particular site. In many cases, the site selection is made by the contracting governmental entity. In such cases, site selection may be made for reasons related to political and/or economic development interests and may lead to the selection of sites that have less favorable environments. We may incur significant start-up and operating costs on new contracts before receiving related revenues, which may impact our cash flows and not be recouped. When we are awarded a contract to provide or manage a facility, we may incur significant start-up and operating expenses, including the cost of constructing the facility, purchasing equipment and staffing the facility, before we receive any payments under the contract. These expenditures could result in a significant reduction in our cash reserves and may make it more difficult for us to meet other cash obligations. In addition, a contract may be terminated prior to its scheduled expiration and as a result we may not recover these expenditures or realize any return on our investment. Failure to comply with unique and increased governmental regulation could result in material penalties or non-renewal or termination of our contracts to provide or manage correctional and detention facilities. The industry in which we operate is subject to extensive federal, state, and local regulations, including educational, health care, and safety regulations, which are administered by many regulatory authorities. Some of the regulations are unique to the corrections industry, some are unique to government contractors and the combination of regulations we face is unique. Facility contracts typically include reporting requirements, supervision, and on-site monitoring by representatives of the contracting governmental agencies. Corrections officers are customarily required to meet certain training standards and, in some instances, facility personnel are required to be licensed and subject to background investigation. Certain jurisdictions also require us to award subcontracts on a competitive basis or to subcontract with certain types of businesses, such as small businesses and businesses owned by members of minority groups. Our facilities are also subject to operational and financial audits by the governmental agencies with which we have contracts. 29 Table of Contents New federal regulations also require federal government contractors like us to self-report evidence of certain forms of misconduct. We may not always successfully comply with these regulations, and failure to comply can result in material penalties, including financial penalties, non-renewal or termination of facility contracts, and suspension or debarment from contracting with certain government entities. In addition, private prison managers are subject to government legislation and regulation attempting to restrict the ability of private prison managers to house certain types of inmates, such as inmates from other jurisdictions or inmates at medium or higher security levels. Legislation has been enacted in several states, and has previously been proposed in the United States Congress, containing such restrictions. Such legislation may have an adverse effect on us. Our inmate transportation subsidiary, TransCor, is subject to regulations promulgated by the Departments of Transportation and Justice. TransCor must also comply with the Interstate Transportation of Dangerous Criminals Act of 2000, which covers operational aspects of transporting prisoners, including, but not limited to, background checks and drug testing of employees; employee training; employee hours; staff-to-inmate ratios; prisoner restraints; communication with local law enforcement; and standards to help ensure the safety of prisoners during transport. We are subject to changes in such regulations, which could result in an increase in the cost of our transportation operations. The Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, has published for comment a notice of proposed rulemaking that seeks comments on the interstate inmate calling industry, including whether and how calling rates could be capped, how providers can be justly compensated and whether commissions to correction and detention facilities (public and private) should be limited. The FCC has traditionally deferred from rulemaking in this area; however, there is the risk that the FCC could act to limit or prohibit commissions to public and private prison managers like us. Our failure to comply with, or changes to existing regulations or adoption of new regulations in, the areas discussed above could result in increases to our costs or reductions in revenue that could, independently or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Government agencies may investigate and audit our contracts and, if any improprieties are found, we may be required to refund revenues we have received, to forego anticipated revenues, and we may be subject to penalties and sanctions, including prohibitions on our bidding in response to RFPs. Certain of the governmental agencies with which we contract have the authority to audit and investigate our contracts with them. As part of that process, government agencies may review our performance of the contract, our pricing practices, our cost structure and our compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. For contracts that actually or effectively provide for certain reimbursement of expenses, if an agency determines that we have improperly allocated costs to a specific contract, we may not be reimbursed for those costs, and we could be required to refund the amount of any such costs that have been reimbursed. If a government audit asserts improper or illegal activities by us, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeitures of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or disqualification from doing business with certain government entities. Any adverse determination could adversely impact our ability to bid in response to RFPs in one or more jurisdictions. 30 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of governmental customers for a significant portion of our revenues. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of governmental agencies. The loss of, or a significant decrease in, business from the BOP, ICE, USMS, or various state agencies could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. The three primary federal governmental agencies with correctional and detention responsibilities, the BOP, ICE, and USMS, accounted for 43% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 ($752.1 million). The USMS accounted for 19% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 ($336.2 million), BOP accounted for 12% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 ($210.0 million), and ICE accounted for 12% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 ($206.0 million). Although the revenue generated from each of these agencies is derived from numerous management contracts, the loss of one or more of such contracts could have a material adverse impact in our financial condition and results of operations. We expect to continue to depend upon these federal agencies and a relatively small group of other governmental customers for a significant percentage of our revenues. The CDCR accounted for 12% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 ($214.8 million). In November 2010, the CDCR extended the agreement with us to house up to 9,588 inmates at four of the five facilities we operate for them. The extension, which is subject to appropriations by the California legislature, began July 1, 2011 and expires June 30, 2013. In May 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld a lower court ruling requiring California to reduce its inmate population to 137.5% of its then current capacity, or to 110,000 inmates, by May 24, 2013. As of December 31, 2012, the adult inmate population held in state of California institutions totaled approximately 119,000 inmates, which did not include the California inmates held in our out of state facilities. In an effort to meet the Federal court ruling, the fiscal year 2012 budget of the state of California called for a significant reallocation of responsibilities from state government to local jurisdictions, including housing certain lower level inmates currently the responsibility of the State. This realignment plan commenced on October 1, 2011 and has resulted in a reduction in state inmate populations of approximately 25,000 as of December 31, 2012. As realignment has progressed, the state of California released a new five-year plan for their projected population and capacity needs, which envisioned recalling the inmates held in our facilities over the next several years resulting in an end to our agreement by June 2016. The plan included many proposed modifications, including but not limited to, a continued decline in the State’s prison population through implementation of the realignment plan, an increase in the maximum occupancy of the California correctional system required by the U.S. Supreme Court from 137.5% to 145%, along with new in-state construction. In June 2012, we announced an agreement that modified our existing contract with the CDCR to reduce the total number of inmates we house for California to an average daily population of 9,038 for the State’s fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. In December 2012, the state of California missed the three judge panel’s population capacity cap for the first time since the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the order. In January 2013, the state of California filed a briefing with the three judge panel acknowledging that meeting the final court capacity target of 137.5% could not be accomplished in the timeframe set in the court order. In addition, the state of California requested the three judge panel vacate the capacity cap order as the state believes they are providing constitutional levels of health care 31 Table of Contents to its inmate population. Plaintiffs in the court case have also filed a briefing with the three judge panel in January 2013 opposing the state’s position. The three judge panel has not yet responded to the state’s request regarding vacating the capacity cap order but have moved the date for state compliance with the 137.5% threshold from June 2013 to December 2013. It is unclear at this time how realignment, the state’s five-year plan, or a three judge panel ruling may impact the long-term utilization by the CDCR of our out of state beds. The return of the California inmates to the state of California would have a significant adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We are dependent upon our senior management and our ability to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel. The success of our business depends in large part on the ability and experience of our senior management. The unexpected loss of any of these persons could materially adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, the services we provide are labor-intensive. When we are awarded a facility management contract or open a new facility, we must hire operating management, correctional officers, and other personnel. The success of our business requires that we attract, develop, and retain these personnel. Our inability to hire sufficient qualified personnel on a timely basis or the loss of significant numbers of personnel at existing facilities could adversely affect our business and operations. Under many of our contracts, we are subject to financial penalties for insufficient staffing. Adverse developments in our relationship with our employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 17,000 employees. Approximately 785 of our employees at four of our facilities, or less than 5% of our workforce, are represented by labor unions. We have not experienced a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities and in the opinion of management overall employee relations are good. New and anticipated executive orders, administrative rules and changes in National Labor Relations could increase organizational activity at locations where employees are currently not represented by a labor organization. Increases in organizational activity or any future work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We are subject to necessary insurance costs. Workers’ compensation, auto liability, employee health, and general liability insurance represent significant costs to us. Because we are significantly self-insured for workers’ compensation, auto liability, employee health, and general liability risks, the amount of our insurance expense is dependent on claims experience, our ability to control our claims experience, and in the case of workers’ compensation and employee health, rising health care costs in general. Unanticipated additional insurance costs could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, and the failure to obtain or maintain any necessary insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be adversely affected by inflation. Many of our facility contracts provide for fixed fees or fees that increase by only small amounts during their terms. If, due to inflation or other causes, our operating expenses, such 32 Table of Contents as wages and salaries of our employees, insurance, medical, and food costs, increase at rates faster than increases, if any, in our fees, then our profitability would be adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Inflation.” We are subject to legal proceedings associated with owning and managing correctional and detention facilities. Our ownership and management of correctional and detention facilities, and the provision of inmate transportation services by a subsidiary, expose us to potential third-party claims or litigation by prisoners or other persons relating to personal injury or other damages resulting from contact with a facility, its managers, personnel or other prisoners, including damages arising from a prisoner’s escape from, or a disturbance or riot at, a facility we own or manage, or from the misconduct of our employees. To the extent the events serving as a basis for any potential claims are alleged or determined to constitute illegal or criminal activity, we could also be subject to criminal liability. Such liability could result in significant monetary fines and could affect our ability to bid on future contracts and retain our existing contracts. In addition, as an owner of real property, we may be subject to a variety of proceedings relating to personal injuries of persons at such facilities. The claims against our facilities may be significant and may not be covered by insurance. Even in cases covered by insurance, our deductible (or self-insured retention) may be significant. We are subject to risks associated with ownership of real estate. Our ownership of correctional and detention facilities subjects us to risks typically associated with investments in real estate. Investments in real estate and, in particular, correctional and detention facilities have limited or no alternative use and thus, are relatively illiquid. Therefore, our ability to divest ourselves of one or more of our facilities promptly in response to changed conditions is limited. Investments in correctional and detention facilities, in particular, subject us to risks involving potential exposure to environmental liability and uninsured loss. Our operating costs may be affected by the obligation to pay for the cost of complying with existing environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, as well as the cost of complying with future legislation. In addition, although we maintain insurance for many types of losses, there are certain types of losses, such as losses from earthquakes and acts of terrorism, which may be either uninsurable or for which it may not be economically feasible to obtain insurance coverage, in light of the substantial costs associated with such insurance. As a result, we could lose both our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, one or more of the facilities we own. Further, it is possible to experience losses that may exceed the limits of insurance coverage. In addition, our focus on facility development and expansion poses additional risks, including cost overruns caused by various factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as weather, labor conditions, and material shortages, resulting in increased construction costs. Further, if we are unable to utilize this new bed capacity, our financial results could deteriorate. Certain of our facilities are subject to options to purchase and reversions. Eleven of our facilities are or will be subject to an option to purchase by certain governmental agencies. Such options are exercisable by the corresponding contracting governmental entity generally at any time during the term of the respective facility contract. Certain of these purchase options are based on the depreciated book value of the facility, which essentially results in the transfer of ownership of the facility to the governmental agency at the end of the life used for accounting purposes. See “Business – Facility Portfolio – Facilities and Facility 33 Table of Contents Management Contracts.” If any of these options are exercised, there exists the risk that we will be unable to invest the proceeds from the sale of the facility in one or more properties that yield as much cash flow as the property acquired by the government entity. In addition, in the event any of these options is exercised, there exists the risk that the contracting governmental agency will terminate the management contract associated with such facility. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the ten facilities currently subject to these options generated $308.4 million in revenue (17.5% of total revenue) and incurred $219.9 million in operating expenses. Certain of the options to purchase are exercisable at prices below fair market value. See “Business – Facility Portfolio – Facilities and Facility Management Contracts.” In addition, the ownership of two of our facilities (one of which is also subject to an option to purchase) will, upon the expiration of certain ground leases with remaining terms generally ranging from 3 to 5 years, revert to the respective governmental agency contracting with us. See “Business – Facility Portfolio – Facilities and Facility Management Contracts.” At the time of such reversion, there exists the risk that the contracting governmental agency will terminate the contract associated with such facility. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the facilities subject to reversion generated $66.3 million in revenue (3.8% of total revenue) and incurred $50.4 million in operating expenses. Risks related to facility construction and development activities may increase our costs related to such activities. When we are engaged to perform construction and design services for a facility, we typically act as the primary contractor and subcontract with other companies who act as the general contractors. As primary contractor, we are subject to the various risks associated with construction (including, without limitation, shortages of labor and materials, work stoppages, labor disputes, and weather interference) which could cause construction delays. In addition, we are subject to the risk that the general contractor will be unable to complete construction at the budgeted costs or be unable to fund any excess construction costs, even though we require general contractors to post construction bonds and insurance. Under such contracts, we are ultimately liable for all late delivery penalties and cost overruns. We may be adversely affected by the rising cost and increased difficulty of obtaining adequate levels of surety credit on favorable terms. We are often required to post bid or performance bonds issued by a surety company as a condition to bidding on or being awarded a contract. Availability and pricing of these surety commitments are subject to general market and industry conditions, among other factors. Increases in surety costs could adversely affect our operating results if we are unable to effectively pass along such increases to our customers. We cannot assure you that we will have continued access to surety credit or that we will be able to secure bonds economically, without additional collateral, or at the levels required for any potential facility development or contract bids. If we are unable to obtain adequate levels of surety credit on favorable terms, we would have to rely upon letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, which could entail higher costs even if such borrowing capacity was available when desired at the time, and our ability to bid for or obtain new contracts could be impaired. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our debt securities. As of December 31, 2012, we had total indebtedness of $1,111.5 million. Our indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or refinance existing indebtedness on favorable terms. Our revolving credit facility and other debt instruments have restrictive covenants that could affect our financial condition. The indenture related to our aggregate original principal amount of $465.0 million 7.75% senior notes due 2017, referred to herein as our senior notes, and our amended and restated revolving credit facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our ability to borrow under our amended and restated revolving credit facility is subject to compliance with certain financial covenants, including leverage and interest coverage ratios. Our amended and restated revolving credit facility includes other restrictions that, among other things, limit our ability to incur indebtedness; grant liens; engage in mergers, consolidations and liquidations; make asset dispositions, restricted payments and investments; enter into transactions with affiliates; and amend, modify or prepay certain indebtedness. The indentures related to our senior notes contain limitations on our ability to effect mergers and change of control events, as well as other limitations, including: • limitations on incurring additional indebtedness; • limitations on the sale of assets; • limitations on the declaration and payment of dividends or other restricted payments; • limitations on transactions with affiliates; and • limitations on liens. 35 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. We do not have sufficient working capital to satisfy our debt obligations in the event of an acceleration of all or a significant portion of our outstanding indebtedness. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. The risk exists that our business will be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will not be available to us under our amended and restated revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including our existing senior notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, on or before maturity. We may not, however, be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our amended and restated revolving credit facility and including our senior notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We are required to repurchase all or a portion of our senior notes upon a change of control, and our revolving credit facility is subject to acceleration upon a change in control. Upon certain change of control events, as that term is defined in the indentures for our senior notes, including a change of control caused by an unsolicited third party, we are required to make an offer in cash to repurchase all or any part of each holder’s notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal thereof, plus accrued interest. The source of funds for any such repurchase would be our available cash or cash generated from operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of equity or funds provided by a new controlling person or entity. Sufficient funds may not be available to us, however, at the time of any change of control event to repurchase all or a portion of the tendered notes pursuant to this requirement. Our failure to offer to repurchase notes, or to repurchase notes tendered, following a change of control will result in a default under the respective indentures, which could lead to a cross-default under our amended and restated revolving credit facility and under the terms of our other indebtedness. In addition, our amended and restated revolving credit facility which is subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of a change in control (as described herein), may prohibit us from making any such required repurchases. Prior to repurchasing the notes upon a change of control event, we must either repay outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated revolving credit facility or obtain the consent of the lenders under our amended and restated revolving credit facility. If we do not obtain the required consents or repay our outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated revolving credit facility, we would remain effectively prohibited from offering to purchase the notes. Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still incur more debt. The terms of the indentures for our senior notes and our amended and restated revolving credit facility restrict our ability to incur indebtedness; however, we may nevertheless incur additional indebtedness in the future and in the future, we may refinance all or a portion of 36 Table of Contents our indebtedness, including our amended and restated revolving credit facility, and may incur additional indebtedness as a result. As of December 31, 2012, we had $104.0 million of additional borrowing capacity available under our $785.0 million amended and restated revolving credit facility. In addition, we may issue an indeterminate amount of debt securities from time to time when we determine that market conditions and the opportunity to utilize the proceeds from the issuance of such securities are favorable. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Our access to capital may be affected by general macroeconomic conditions. During the financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, several large financial institutions failed while others became dependent on the assistance of the federal government to continue to operate as going concerns. We can provide no assurance that the banks that have made commitments under our amended and restated revolving credit facility will continue to operate as going concerns in the future. If any of the banks in the lending group were to fail, it is possible that the capacity under the amended and restated revolving credit facility would be reduced. In the event that the availability under the amended and restated revolving credit facility was reduced significantly, we could be required to obtain capital from alternate sources in order to continue with our business and capital strategies. Our options for addressing such capital constraints would include, but not be limited to (i) delaying certain capital expenditure projects, (ii) obtaining commitments from the remaining banks in the lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts under the terms of the amended and restated revolving credit facility, or (iii) accessing the public capital markets. Such alternatives would likely be on terms less favorable than under existing terms, which could have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. We have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Risks Related to our REIT Conversion If we fail to qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we would be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates and would not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income. We expect to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), commencing with our taxable year beginning January 1, 2013. We believe we are operating so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code and believe that our organization and method of operation complies with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code and will enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, we cannot assure you that we will qualify as a REIT, or that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT requires us to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Code which may change from time to time and for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances 37 Table of Contents not entirely within our control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the REIT must derive at least 95% of its gross income in any year from qualifying sources. In addition, a REIT is required to distribute annually to its stockholders at least 90% of the REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding capital gains) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income computed in the usual manner for corporate taxpayers without deduction for distributions to our stockholders and we may need to borrow additional funds or issue securities to pay such additional tax liability. Any such corporate income tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes because, unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, we would be taxable as a C corporation, beginning in the year in which the failure occurs, and we would not be allowed to re-elect to be taxed as a REIT for the following four years. We could be dependent on external sources of capital to comply with and to satisfy the REIT distribution requirements, which could adversely affect our overall financial performance. We incurred $4.2 million in conversion costs during 2012 in connection with our conversion to a REIT. Further, we expect to incur significant expenditures in connection with our conversion to a REIT throughout 2013. We expect to pay up to $25.0 million of one-time costs related to the REIT conversion and up to $140.0 million of the E&P Distribution in cash. In addition, we must make the E&P Distribution on or before December 31, 2013 to be eligible to elect to be taxed as a REIT effective January 1, 2013. To meet REIT distribution requirements and maintain our qualification and taxation as a REIT, we intend to refinance all of our $465.0 million 7.75% senior notes due 2017 to lower the interest rate on our debt and to provide us with the flexibility needed to pay higher dividends, including the E&P Distribution, and to fund debt refinancing costs, and REIT conversion costs. We may also seek an amendment to our revolving credit facility to obtain greater flexibility under our REIT structure. While the specific timing, structure, and terms of these transactions have not yet been determined, we are confident in our ability to execute these transactions during 2013 given our modest leverage, strong balance sheet and strong historical support from the credit markets. If we are unable to refinance the 7.75% senior notes to provide us with more flexibility to pay dividends, we believe we have the ability to satisfy our distribution requirements, including the portion of the E&P Distribution we expect to pay in cash, with the proceeds received from an offering of our common stock or through the issuance of other securities instead. If we are unable to satisfy the E&P Distribution or if we are unable to refinance our 7.75% senior notes to provide us with more flexibility to pay dividends, we may fail to qualify as a REIT for 2013. In order to qualify as a REIT, we will also be required each year to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain) and we will be subject to tax to the extent our net taxable income (including net capital gain) is not fully distributed. Accordingly, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisition and development activities, from cash retained from operations and may require additional capital from third-party sources to make new investments. We may acquire additional capital through our issuance of securities senior to our common stock, including additional borrowings or other indebtedness or the issuance of additional securities. Issuance of such senior securities creates additional risks because leverage is a speculative technique that may adversely affect common stockholders. If the return on securities acquired with borrowed 38 Table of Contents funds or other leverage proceeds does not exceed the cost of the leverage, the use of leverage could cause us to lose money. Additionally, the issuance of senior securities involves offering expenses and other costs, including interest payments, which are borne indirectly by our common stockholders. Fluctuations in interest rates could increase interest payments on our senior securities, and could reduce cash available for distribution on common stock. Increased operating costs, including the financing cost associated with any leverage, may reduce our total return to common stockholders. Rating agency guidelines applicable to any senior securities may impose asset coverage requirements, dividend limitations, voting right requirements (in the case of the senior equity securities), and other restrictions. Further, the terms of any senior securities or other borrowings may impose additional requirements, restrictions and limitations that are more stringent than those required by a rating agency that rates outstanding senior securities that may have an adverse effect on us and may affect our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. On the other hand, we may not be able to raise such additional capital in the future on favorable terms or at all. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. We may issue debt securities, other instruments of indebtedness or preferred stock, and we may borrow money from banks or other financial institutions. Further, in order to maintain our REIT status, we may need to borrow funds to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Our ability to access debt and equity capital on favorable terms or at all is dependent upon a number of factors, including general market conditions, the market’s perception of our growth potential, our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our securities. Issuance of debt or equity securities will expose us to typical risks associated with leverage, including increased risk of loss. To the extent our ability to issue debt or other senior securities such as preferred stock is constrained, we may depend on issuance of additional shares of common stock to finance new investments. If we raise additional funds by issuing more shares of our common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time would decrease, and you may experience dilution. There are uncertainties relating to our estimate of the E&P Distribution. To qualify for taxation as a REIT effective for the year ended December 31, 2013, we are required to distribute to our stockholders on or before December 31, 2013, our undistributed accumulated earnings and profits attributable to taxable periods ending prior to January 1, 2013, which we currently estimate to be $650.0 million to $700.0 million. We believe that the total value of the E&P Distribution will be sufficient to fully distribute our accumulated earnings and profits and that a portion of the E&P Distribution will exceed our accumulated earnings and profits. However, the amount of our undistributed accumulated earnings and profits is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we estimate our earnings and profits or may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. Substantial uncertainties exist relating to the computation of our undistributed accumulated earnings and profits, including the possibility that the IRS could, in auditing tax years through 2012, successfully assert that our taxable income should be increased, which could increase our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits. Thus, we could fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our pre-REIT accumulated 39 Table of Contents earnings and profits by the close of our first taxable year as a REIT. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our pre-REIT accumulated earnings and profits, we cannot now determine whether we would be able to take advantage of them or the economic impact to us of doing so. Performing services through our TRSs may increase our overall tax liability relative to other REITs or subject us to certain excise taxes. A TRS may hold assets and earn income, including income earned from the performance of correctional services, that would not be qualifying assets or income if held or earned directly by a REIT. We conduct a significant portion of our business activities through our TRSs. Our TRSs are subject to federal, foreign, state and local income tax on their taxable income, and their after-tax net income is available for distribution to us but is not required to be distributed to us. The TRS rules also impose a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a TRS and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. In addition, the TRS rules limit the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a TRS to its parent REIT to ensure that the TRS is subject to an appropriate level of corporate income taxation. We believe our arrangements with our TRSs are on arm’s-length terms and intend to continue to operate in a manner that allows us to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to avoid application of the 100% excise tax or the limitations on interest deductions discussed above. The value of the securities we own in our TRS is limited under the REIT asset tests. Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the gross assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. This limitation may affect our ability to increase the size of our TRSs’, or other non-REIT qualifying, operations and assets, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation. If we are unable to comply with the 25% limitation, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Furthermore, our significant use of TRSs may cause the market to value shares of our common stock differently than the stock of other REITs, which may not use TRSs as extensively. Although we will monitor the value of our investments in TRSs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the 25% limitation discussed above. We may be limited in our ability to fund distributions using cash generated through our TRSs. At least 75% of gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from passive real estate sources and no more than 25% of gross income may consist of dividends from our TRSs and other non-real estate income. This limitation on our ability to receive dividends from our TRSs may affect our ability to fund cash distributions to our stockholders using cash from our TRSs. Moreover, our TRSs are not required to distribute their net income to us, and any income of our TRSs that is not distributed to us will not be subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. REIT ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of our common stock. In order to satisfy the requirements for REIT qualification, no more than 50% in value of all classes or series of our outstanding shares of stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year beginning with our 2014 taxable year. To assist us in satisfying this share ownership requirement, we intend to request our stockholders’ approval 40 Table of Contents for an amendment to our charter imposing ownership limits on each class and series of our shares of stock. Under applicable constructive ownership rules, any shares of stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the common stock ownership limits, and any shares of a given class or series of preferred stock owned by certain affiliated owners generally would be added together for purposes of the ownership limit on such class or series. If anyone transfers shares of our common stock in a manner that would violate the ownership limits, or prevent us from qualifying as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, under the proposed charter, those shares of common stock instead would be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or fails to permit our continued qualification as a REIT, then the initial intended transfer would be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. If our stockholders approve an amendment to our charter as discussed above, anyone who acquires shares in violation of the ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares of common stock are redeemed or sold if the market price of our shares of common stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. If our stockholders do not approve this amendment to our charter, we may not be able to satisfy the REIT stock ownership limitations on a continuing basis, which could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our common stock. In particular, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our gross assets must consist of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities, securities that constitute qualified real estate assets and securities of our TRSs) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our gross assets (other than government securities, securities that constitute qualified real estate assets and securities of our TRSs) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total gross assets can be represented by the securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forego investments we might otherwise make or to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance and reduce amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. The tax imposed on REITs engaging in “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% penalty tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale 41 Table of Contents to customers in the ordinary course of our business, unless a sale or disposition qualifies under certain statutory safe harbors, such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the IRS would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to make use of the available safe harbors. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to make distributions to our stockholders at any time in the future. We are generally required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) each year to qualify as a REIT under the Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy. To the extent we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains), we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed net taxable income. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the issues described in the risk factors set forth in this annual report. Subject to satisfying the requirements for REIT qualification, we intend over time to make regular quarterly distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors makes determinations regarding distributions based upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, satisfaction of the requirements for REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to make distributions to our stockholders are: • our inability to realize attractive returns on our investments; • unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow or non-cash earnings; • decreases in the value of the underlying assets; and • the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates. As a result, it is possible that we will not be able to continue to make distributions to our stockholders or that the level of any distributions we do make to our stockholders will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. Distributions could be dilutive to our financial results and may constitute a return of capital to our investors, which would have the effect of reducing each shareholder’s basis in its shares of common stock. We also could use borrowed funds or proceeds from the sale of assets to fund distributions. In addition, distributions that we make to our stockholders are generally taxable to our stockholders as ordinary income. However, our dividends are eligible for the lower rate applicable to “qualified dividends” (as described above) to the extent they are attributable to income that was previously subject to corporate income tax, such as the dividends we receive from our TRSs and our E&P Distribution. Also, a portion of our distributions may be designated by us as long-term capital gains to the extent that they are attributable to capital gain income recognized by us. Our distributions may constitute a return of capital to the extent that they exceed our earnings and profits as determined for income tax purposes. A return of capital is not taxable, but has the effect of reducing the basis of a shareholder’s investment in our shares of common stock. 42 Table of Contents Dividends paid in shares of our stock may cause you to be required to pay tax in excess of the cash you receive. We expect to pay at least 80% of the E&P Distribution in our common stock and may in the future distribute other taxable dividends that are payable in our stock. Taxable stockholders receiving such dividends will be required to include the full amount of the dividend as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividends, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales may have an adverse effect on the per share trading price of our common stock. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us, including our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. The rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. New legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. We could have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from our REIT conversion that could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to a federal corporate level tax at the highest regular corporate rate (currently 35%) on all or a portion of the gain recognized from the disposition of any property occurring within a specified period (generally, ten years) after the REIT conversion is completed. Meaning, if during the ten-year period beginning on January 1, 2013, we recognize gain on the disposition of any property we owned on January 1, 2013, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of January 1, 2013, over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of January 1, 2013, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. These requirements could limit, delay or impede future sales of our properties. We currently do not expect to sell any asset if the sale would result in the imposition of a material tax liability. We cannot, however, assure you that we will not change our plans in this regard. Legislative or regulatory action affecting REITs could adversely affect us or our stockholders. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the federal income tax laws applicable to investments in REITs and similar entities. At any time, the federal income tax laws governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us and may 43 Table of Contents impact our taxation or that of our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any such change will not significantly affect our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences to us of such qualification. The ability of our Board of Directors to revoke our REIT qualification, without stockholder approval, may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may revoke or otherwise terminate the REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we will not be allowed a tax deduction with respect to distributions to our stockholders in computing our taxable income, and we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and state and local taxes, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. Other Risks Related to Our Securities The market price of our equity securities may vary substantially, which may limit your ability to liquidate your investment. The trading prices of equity securities issued by REITs have historically been affected by changes in market interest rates. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock in public trading markets is the annual yield from distributions on our common stock as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates, or a decrease in our distributions to stockholders, may lead prospective purchasers of our shares to demand a higher annual yield, which could reduce the market price of our equity securities. Other factors that could affect the market price of our equity securities include the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in the corrections or detention industries; • changes in expectations of future financial performance or changes in estimates of securities analysts; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • issuances of common shares or other securities in the future; and • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic actions. The number of shares of our common stock available for future sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common stock, or the availability of common stock for future sale, on the market price of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of common stock (including stock issued under equity compensation plans), or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Future offerings of debt or equity securities ranking senior to our common stock or incurrence of debt (including under our credit facility) may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities in the future ranking senior to our common stock or otherwise incur indebtedness (including under our credit facility), it is possible that 44 Table of Contents these securities or indebtedness will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility and limiting our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges, including with respect to distributions, more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering or otherwise incur indebtedness will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings or financings, any of which could reduce the market price of our common stock and dilute the value of our common stock. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 50.0 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the authority, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any new series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights, dividend rights, liquidation rights and other preferences superior to our common stock. In the event that we issue shares of preferred stock in the future that have preferences superior to our common stock, the rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and discourage or prevent a transaction favorable to our stockholders. Our charter and bylaws and Maryland law could make it difficult for a third party to acquire our company. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, deter, or prevent a change in control of our company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions: • authorize us to issue “blank check” preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, with rights senior to those of common stock; • provide that directors may be removed with or without cause only by the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the votes of shares entitled to vote thereon; and • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the Board of Directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Maryland law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions of our charter and bylaws and Maryland law may discourage transactions that otherwise could provide for the payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock, and also could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 45 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 