ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Recent Legislation in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Operations, Financial Condition, and Earnings. Instability and volatility in the credit markets has led to the adoption of legislation and regulatory actions which have the potential to significantly affect financial institutions and holding companies, including us. In response to this financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the United States Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Under these and other laws and government actions: · the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or “Treasury,” has provided capital to financial institutions and adopted programs to facilitate and finance the purchase of problem assets and finance asset-backed securities via the Troubled Assets Relief Program, or “TARP”; · the FDIC has temporarily increased the limits on federal deposit insurance with the exception of depository institutions who have voluntarily opted out of the program and has also provided availability of temporary liquidity guarantee, or “TLG”, of all FDIC-insured institutions and their affiliates’ debt, as well as deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts; and · the federal government has undertaken various forms of economic stimulus, including assistance to homeowners in restructuring mortgage payments on qualifying loans. TARP and the TLG are winding down, and the effects of this wind-down cannot be predicted. In addition, the federal government is considering various proposals for a comprehensive reform of the financial services industry and markets and coordinating reforms with other countries. There can be no assurance that these various initiatives or any other future legislative or regulatory initiatives will be successful at improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. These new laws, regulations, and changes will increase our FDIC insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. At this time, we cannot fully determine the extent of these effects, or any other effects, on us caused by these and future laws and regulations. However, they may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Difficult Market Conditions Have Adversely Affected Our Industry. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain national and local conditions. Financial institutions continue to be affected by sharp declines in the real estate market and constrained financial markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past two years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosure, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: 30 Table of Contents · We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, and compliance with such regulation may increase our costs, limit our ability to pursue business opportunities, and increase compliance challenges. · Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure or estimate the value of certain assets requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or impact the value of assets, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. · Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. · We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. In May 2009, the FDIC approved an increase in deposit insurance premiums, including a one-time special assessment on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and a provision allowing the FDIC to impose additional special assessments on the expanded assessment base for the third and fourth quarters of calendar year 2009. These actions will significantly increase our noninterest expense in our fiscal year 2010 and in future years as long as the increased premiums remain in place. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a prolonged delay in economic recovery areas could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business: · Loan delinquencies may increase further; · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase further; · Demand for our products and services may decline; · Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline further in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our loans; and · Investments in mortgage-backed securities may decline in value as a result of performance of the underlying loans or the diminution of the value of the underlying real estate collateral. The Congressional and State response to the current economic and credit crisis could have an adverse effect on our business. Federal and state legislators and regulators are expected to pursue increased regulation of how banks are operated and how loans are originated, purchased, and sold as a result of the current economic and credit crisis. Changes in regulations applicable to the operation of depository institutions, such as regulations limiting certain fees applicable to deposit accounts or credit cards, could limit important sources of revenue for Provident Bank. Additionally, changes in the regulations applicable to FDIC deposit insurance, including expiration of temporary measures taken by the FDIC during the financial crisis, could reduce the amounts of insurance or circumstances in which insurance is available with respect to deposit accounts, which may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain deposits. Changes in the lending market and secondary markets for loans and related congressional and regulatory responses may also affect how Provident Bank makes and underwrites loans, buys and sells such loans in secondary markets, and otherwise conducts its business. We are unable to predict whether any legislative or regulatory initiatives will be implemented, what form they will take, or whether such initiatives or actions, once they are initiated or taken, will thereafter continue to change. Any such actions could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits. Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC-insured accounts. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. 31 Table of Contents An Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses Would Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. The Need to Account for Assets at Market Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Acquisition, Development, and Construction (ADC) Loans, Commercial, Real Estate and Commercial and Industrial Loans Expose us to Increased Risk. At September 30, 2009, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $554.5 million, or 32.5% of total loans, our commercial and industrial business loan portfolio totaled $242.6 million, or 14.2% of total loans, and our portfolio of acquisition, development and construction loans (ADC) totaled $193.8 million, or 11.4% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. These loans are subject to a variety of risks as described in the section entitled “Allowance for Loan Losses”. In addition, many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or ADC loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss. Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of September 30, 2009, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $4.26 per share. Using a discount rate of 12% and a terminal multiple of 14 times expected earnings, the net present value of Provident New York Bancorp shares exceeded recorded book value by 6% as of September 30, 2009. Further declines in the value of bank stocks and the fair value of banks in general would make it more likely that we would have to record an impairment of goodwill. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the New York metropolitan area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Rockland and Orange Counties, New York. We also have a branch presence in Ulster, Sullivan, Westchester and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts back to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates continue to fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. Average funding costs have declined in 2009 to 1.52% in response to Federal Reserve Bank interest rate cuts. Average wholesale funding costs, as measured by the cost of borrowings, decreased from 4.87% in 2007 to 3.64% in 2009. These decreases outpaced the tax equivalent average yield on earning assets, which decreased from 6.29% in 2007 to 5.28% in 2009. The overall result was that tax equivalent net interest income has increased from $87.9 million in 2007 to $99.0 million in 2008 and decreased to $97.9 million in 2009. A decline in net interest margin may occur, offsetting a portion, or all gains in net interest income generated from an increasing volume of assets, if competitive market pressures limit our ability to reduce liability costs as the level of short-term interest rates decrease, or liability costs increase in response to increasing short-term rates. In this regard, we have $227.5 million in structured/convertible advances with FHLB. The advances have interest rates that are below the level of comparable fixed term borrowings at the time of issue. If interest rates rise, the borrowings may be called, whereby the funds would need to be converted at potentially higher interest rates. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2009, our investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $832.6 million. Unrealized gains on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $9.5 million and are reported as part of other comprehensive income, included as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Further, decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations and other limitations which may affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Provident Bancorp is a separate legal entity from its subsidiary, Provident Bank, and does not have significant operations of its own. The availability of dividends from Provident Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of Provident Bank and other factors that the OTS, Provident Bank’s primary regulator, could assert that payment of dividends or other payments may result in an unsafe or unsound practice. If Provident Bank is unable to pay dividends to Provident Bancorp, we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from Provident Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 33 Table of Contents A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We Are Subject to Extensive Regulatory Oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations also could result in a range of sanctions and enforcement actions, including the imposition of civil money penalties, formal agreements and cease and desist orders. In addition, the OTS and the FDIC have specific authority to take “prompt corrective action,” depending on our capital level. Currently, we are considered “well-capitalized” for prompt corrective action purposes. If we were to drop to the “adequately capitalized” level, the OTS could restrict our ability to take brokered deposits. If we were to fall to the lower capital levels – “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized” and “critically undercapitalized” – we would be required to raise additional capital and also would be subject to progressively more severe restrictions on our operations, management and capital distributions; replacement of senior executive officers and directors; and, if we became “critically undercapitalized,” to the appointment of a conservator or receiver. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services or the way we operate our business, and could limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. We Are Subject to Competition from Both Banks and Non-Banking Companies. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Our principal competitors include commercial banks, other savings banks and savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. 34 Table of Contents Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Provident Bancorp. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Provident Bancorp without the consent of our Board of Directors. One may want a take over attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of Incorporation and Statutory Provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Provident Bancorp and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions also include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations, the election of directors to staggered terms of three years and plurality voting. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required Change in Control Payments and Issuance of Stock Options and Recognition and Retention Plan Shares. We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, which require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Provident Bancorp or Provident Bank. We have issued stock grants and stock options in accordance with the 2004 Provident Bancorp Inc. Stock Incentive Plan. The majority of grants under the plan were made in 2005 and generally vest over five years. In the event of a change in control, the vesting of stock and option grants accelerate. In 2006 we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of the Company. These payments and the acceleration of grants would increase the cost of acquiring Provident Bancorp, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 