ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Recent Legislation in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect Our Operations, Financial Condition, and Earnings. Instability and volatility in the credit markets has led to the adoption of legislation and regulatory actions which have the potential to significantly affect financial institutions and holding companies, including us. Under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (“EESA”), the U.S. Department of the Treasury has the authority to expend up to $700 billion to assist in stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial system. Although it was originally contemplated that these funds would be used primarily to purchase troubled assets under TARP on October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the CPP under which it will purchase up to $250 billion of non-voting senior preferred shares of certain qualified financial institutions in an attempt to encourage U.S. financial institutions to build capital to increase the flow of financing to U.S. businesses and consumers and to support the U.S. economy. In addition, Congress has temporarily increased FDIC deposit insurance from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor through December 31, 2009. The FDIC has also announced the creation of the TLGP which is intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the U.S. financial institutions by temporarily guaranteeing newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full coverage for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts (such as business checking accounts, interest-bearing transaction accounts paying 50 basis points or less and IOLTA accounts), regardless of dollar amount until December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurances that these actions will have the beneficial effects that are intended, particularly with respect to the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. These new laws, regulations, and changes will increase our FDIC insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. At this time, we cannot fully determine the extent of these effects, or any other effects, on us caused by these and future laws and regulations. However, they may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Participants in the CPP Are Subject to Certain Restrictions on Dividends, Repurchases of Common Stock, and Executive Compensation. Treasury has agreed to purchase up to $58.4 million of Provident Bancorp non-voting cumulative senior preferred stock. The transaction is subject to proper documentation and approval by the Company’s Board of Directors. If we elect to participate, we will be subject to restrictions on dividends, repurchases of common stock, and executive compensation. Compliance with these restrictions and other restrictions may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. Additionally, any reduction of, or the elimination of, our common stock dividend in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Unless leveraged and introducing additional interest rate risk our earnings and earnings per share would be adversely impacted by participation in the CPP. Difficult Market Conditions Have Adversely Affected Our Industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosure, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial services industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry, including as a result of the EESA. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, 29 Table of Contents assumptions or estimates. The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure or estimate the value of certain assets requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or impact the value of assets, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Lack of Consumer Confidence in Financial Institutions May Decrease Our Level of Deposits Our level of deposits may be affected by lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which have caused fewer depositors to be willing to maintain deposits that are not FDIC-insured accounts. That may cause depositors to withdraw deposits and place them in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the United States Treasury. These consumer preferences may cause us to be forced to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. Market Volatility and Returns May Lead to Reductions in Investment Management Revenues Our investment management revenues depend in large part on the level of assets under management. Market volatility that lead customers to liquidate investments as well as lower asset values caused by poor investment returns can reduce our level of assets under management and thereby decrease our investment management revenues. Future Legislative or Regulatory Actions Responding to Perceived Financial and Market Problems Could Impair Our Rights Against Borrowers. In particular, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. Were proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting our rights as a creditor, to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. An Inadequate Allowance for Loan Losses Would Negatively Impact Our Results of Operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our allowance will be adequate to cover probable loan losses inherent in our portfolio. The Need to Account for Assets at Market Prices May Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. 30 Table of Contents Our Commercial Real Estate, Commercial Business and Construction Loans Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks. At September 30, 2008, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $554.8 million, or 32.0% of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $243.6 million, or 14.1% of total loans, and our portfolio of construction loans totaled $171.0 million, or 10.0% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Changes in the Value of Goodwill and Intangible Assets Could Reduce Our Earnings. We are required by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually. Testing for impairment of goodwill and intangible assets involves the identification of reporting units and the estimation of fair values. The estimation of fair values involves a high degree of judgment and subjectivity in the assumptions used. As of September 30, 2008, if our goodwill and intangible assets were fully impaired and we were required to charge-off all of our goodwill, the pro forma reduction to our stockholders’ equity would be approximately $4.04 per share. Our Continuing Concentration of Loans in Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the New York metropolitan area in general. Unlike large banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Rockland and Orange Counties, New York. We also have a branch presence in Ulster, Sullivan and Putnam Counties in New York and in Bergen County, New Jersey. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control, would affect the local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy also may have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations substantially depend on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. In addition, the impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts back to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates continue to fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. Since 2005, after the completion of the second step conversion and the ENB and WSB acquisitions shifts in short term market rates led to an inverted yield curve and consequently fierce competition for deposits. The overall increase in interest bearing deposits due to this competition and eventual migration of deposits to higher rate products increased interest bearing funding costs from 2.6% in 2006 to 3.3% in 2007. Subsequent to this funding costs have declined in 2008 to 2.6% in response to Federal Reserve Bank interest rate cuts. Average wholesale funding costs, as measured by the cost of borrowings, decreased from 4.3% in 2006 to 3.9% in 2008. These decreases outpaced the tax equivalent average yield on earning assets, which increased from 5.8% in 2006 to 6.1% 31 Table of Contents in 2008. The overall result was that tax equivalent net interest income has increased from $87.0 million in 2006, $87.9 million in 2007 and $99.0 million in 2008. A decline in net interest margin may occur, offsetting a portion, or all gains in net interest income generated from an increasing volume of assets, if competitive market pressures limit our ability to reduce liability costs as the level of short-term interest rates decrease, or liability costs increase in response to increasing short-term rates. In this regard, we have $302.5 million in structured/callable advances with FHLB. The advances have interest rates that are below the level of comparable fixed term borrowings at the time of issue. If interest rates rise the borrowings may be called whereby the funds would need to be replaced at higher levels. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. Additionally, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At September 30, 2008, our investment and mortgage-backed securities available for sale totaled $791.7 million. Unrealized losses on securities available for sale, net of tax, amounted to $5.9 million and are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. Further, decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. A Breach of Information Security Could Negatively Affect Our Earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. Disruptions to our vendors’ systems may arise from events that are wholly or partially beyond our vendors’ control (including, for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). If information security is breached, despite the controls we have instituted, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. We Are Subject to Extensive Regulatory Oversight We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in the anti-money laundering area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements can lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions, and legal proceedings. In addition, recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have or may have significant impact on the financial services industry. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. We Are Subject to Competition from Both Banks and Non-Banking Companies. The financial services industry, including commercial banking, is highly competitive, and we encounter strong competition for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. Our principal competitors include commercial banks, other savings banks and savings and loan associations, mutual funds, money market funds, finance companies, trust companies, insurers, leasing companies, credit unions, mortgage companies, real estate investment trusts (REITs), private issuers of debt obligations, venture capital firms, and suppliers of other investment alternatives, such as securities firms. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are and have advantages over us in providing certain services. Many of our competitors 32 Table of Contents are significantly larger than we are and have greater access to capital and other resources. Also, our ability to compete effectively is dependent on our ability to adapt successfully to technological changes within the banking and financial services industry. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts More Difficult to Achieve. Our Board of Directors has no current intention to sell control of Provident Bancorp. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Delaware law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of Provident Bancorp without the consent of our Board of Directors. One may want a take over attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquirer could offer a premium over the then prevailing market price of our common stock. The factors that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: Certificate of Incorporation and Statutory Provisions. Provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Provident Bancorp and Delaware law may make it more difficult and expensive to pursue a takeover attempt that management opposes. These provisions also would make it more difficult to remove our current Board of Directors or management, or to elect new directors. These provisions also include limitations on voting rights of beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock, supermajority voting requirements for certain business combinations and the election of directors to staggered terms of three years. Our bylaws also contain provisions regarding the timing and content of stockholder proposals and nominations and qualification for service on the Board of Directors. Required Change in Control Payments and Issuance of Stock Options and Recognition and Retention Plan Shares. We have entered into employment agreements with executive officers, that require payments to be made to them in the event their employment is terminated following a change in control of Provident Bancorp or Provident Bank. We have issued stock grants and stock options in accordance with the 2004 Provident Bancorp Inc. Stock Incentive Plan. The majority of grants under the plan were made in 2005 and generally vest over five years. In the event of a change in control, the vesting of stock and option grants accelerate. In 2006 we adopted the Provident Bank & Affiliates Transition Benefit Plan. The plan calls for severance payments ranging from 12 weeks to one year for employees not covered by separate agreements if they are terminated in connection with a change in control of the Company. These payments and the acceleration of grants would increase the cost of acquiring Provident Bancorp, thereby discouraging future takeover attempts. 33 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 