ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before deciding whether to invest in our common stock, you should consider carefully the risk factors described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually occur, it may materially harm our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flow. As a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we think are immaterial may also materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition and could result in a complete loss of your investment. Risks Associated with Commercialization and Product Development We currently depend entirely on the commercial success of our lead drug, PROCYSBI, for the management of nephropathic cystinosis. PROCYSBI is our only product currently approved for marketing and, as a result, our operating results are substantially dependent on the commercial success of PROCYSBI, for which we commenced marketing in the U.S. in June 2013. In the U.S., we are permitted to market PROCYSBI only for the management of nephropathic cystinosis in adults and children six years and older. In September 2013, we received marketing authorization from the European Commission, which allows us to commercialize PROCYSBI in the 28 Member States of the EU plus Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland (which are not EU Member States but are part of the European Free Trade Association, or EFTA) for the treatment of proven nephropathic cystinosis; however, we have not yet commercially launched PROCYSBI in the EU. We believe that the trading price of our common stock will be substantially affected by our results of operations and, in particular, net product sales of PROCYSBI. We do not have prior experience in commercializing therapeutics. If PROCYSBI sales do not meet expectations, our stock price may not increase or could significantly decrease. The successful commercialization of PROCYSBI will depend on several factors, including: · growing sales of PROCYSBI in the U.S.; · the negotiation and agreement on an acceptable prices in EU countries and other select territories, and reimbursement at the country-specific price; · the successful commercial launch of PROCYSBI in the EU and other select territories; · acceptance of PROCYSBI by physicians, parents, patients and cystinosis research/advocacy organizations including the conversion from the existing standard of care to PROCYSBI; · coverage and reimbursement for PROCYSBI from commercial health plans and government health programs, which we refer to collectively as third-party payors; · compliance with regulatory requirements including fulfilling any FDA and EC required post-approval commitments; · provision of affordable out-of-pocket cost to patients and/or other programs to ensure patient access to PROCYSBI in the U.S.; · approval by other country regulatory agencies of appropriate product labeling for PROCYSBI; · agreements with wholesalers, distributors and pharmacies on commercially reasonable terms; · manufacture and supply of adequate quantities of PROCYSBI to meet commercial demand; and · development and maintenance of intellectual property protection for PROCYSBI. If we fail to grow sales of PROCYSBI in the U.S. or successfully commercialize PROCYSBI in the EU within a reasonable time period, we may never become profitable and may be unable to sustain our business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Our ability to generate significant product sales from PROCYSBI is dependent upon market acceptance among physicians, patients, patient families, third-party payors and the healthcare community. PROCYSBI may not attain or maintain market acceptance among physicians, patients, patient families, third-party payors or the healthcare community compared to the current standard of care. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate significant product sales of PROCYSBI will depend on a number of factors, including: · availability and relative efficacy, safety and ease of administration of alternative treatments; · the price of our product, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; · timing of market introduction of our product as well as competitive drugs; · efficacy, safety and prevalence and severity of any side effects of PROCYSBI; · identification of currently diagnosed and undiagnosed patients and continued growth of the cystinosis market; · acceptance by patients, patient families and primary care and other specialists including conversion from the existing standard of care; · continued patient adherence to therapy; · the effect of current and future healthcare laws; · availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing from third-party payors; and · breadth of product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA, EC or other regulatory authorities. If PROCYSBI does not achieve and maintain significant market acceptance among physicians, patients, patient families, third-party payors or the healthcare community, our ability to generate revenues from PROCYSBI will be materially and adversely affected. The amount of our product sales of PROCYSBI in the EU is dependent upon the pricing and reimbursement guidelines adopted in each of the various countries in the EU, which levels may be below our current expectations. We have not yet priced PROCYSBI in any countries in the EU. While we are developing estimates of anticipated pricing, one or more EU countries may not support our anticipated pricing and reimbursement for PROCYSBI, particularly in light of the budget crises faced by a number of countries in the EU, which would negatively affect anticipated revenue from PROCYSBI. The pricing and reimbursement process in the EU can be lengthy and involved, and we do not have significant experience with this process. Failure to timely complete the pricing and reimbursement process in the EU will delay our ability to market PROCYSBI in the EU and derive product sales in that region. If we are unable to expand the use of RP103 and receive regulatory approval for any other indication, we may delay or cease some of our product development activities, which would adversely affect the long term value of RP103 and our growth prospects. We must obtain and maintain appropriate pre-market approvals from regulatory agencies in each of the markets in which we intend to market our products. Once approved, we may only market our products for the specific uses that are reflected in the product's approved labeling. In the U.S., we are permitted to market RP103 only for the management of nephropathic cystinosis in adults and children six years and older under the brand name PROCYSBI. We are permitted to market PROCYSBI in the EU as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of proven nephropathic cystinosis. We do not have approval of RP103 in any other market nor for any other disease indication. A new drug application, or NDA, submitted to the FDA or marketing authorization application, or MAA, submitted to the EMA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the applicable product candidate for the management of each individual indication to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority. 20 Table of Contents Obtaining approval of an NDA, MAA or any other filing for marketing authorization in a foreign country is an extensive, expensive and uncertain process. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. The FDA, EC or other regulatory authorities may delay, limit or deny approval of RP103 or our future drug product candidates for many reasons, including: · the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical or clinical significance required by regulatory authorities for approval; · regulatory authorities may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that a product candidate has adequate clinical and other benefits or an adequate safety profile; or may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials and require that we conduct additional trials; · regulatory authorities may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites; · regulatory authorities may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting (or equivalent, if required) in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the regulatory agency require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; · regulatory authorities may require additional preclinical or clinical studies or other data prior to granting approval, and we may not be able to generate the required data on a timely basis, if at all; · regulatory authorities may impose limitations on approved labeling, thus introducing reimbursement complications which may limit access for intended uses or limit the commercial profile of the drug; · regulatory authorities may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or in the facilities of our third-party suppliers and/or contract manufacturers, or may require us to manufacture additional validation batches or change our process, specifications or third-party suppliers or contract manufacturers; · we may not be able to validate our manufacturing process to the satisfaction of the regulatory authorities, or they may not agree with our plan for potential retrospective validation; or · regulatory authorities may change approval policies or adopt new regulations. If we fail to gain regulatory approval for RP103 for other indications, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research product development programs and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities. During 2014 and throughout most of 2015, we expect to continue to rely on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and a single third-party manufacturer for the conversion to finished drug product. If we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of our drugs, our reputation will be harmed, our revenues will be delayed or diminished and our financial results will be adversely affected. Using external CMOs under contract, we currently manufacture commercial and clinical quantities of PROCYSBI and RP103 for the indications under development. We rely on single manufacturing sources for our cysteamine active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, and finished products. Our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of PROCYSBI and RP103 is constrained by limited supplies of raw materials and capacity and output of these manufacturers, which may have a material adverse impact on sales of PROCYSBI and the availability of product for our clinical trials. While we have entered into an agreement with a second tablet manufacturer, we expect that this second manufacturer will not be able to produce finished products for commercial sale until the latter part of 2015. Furthermore, any reduction or interruption in our supply of API from the single source supplier and of finished goods from our contract manufacturer, and efforts to identify and qualify alternative sources of API supply, could result in significant additional operating costs, interruptions in product supply and delays in sales of PROCYSBI and in developing RP103 for HD, NAFLD and Leigh's syndrome. In addition, supply arrangements from alternative sources may not be available on acceptable economic terms, if at all. 21 Table of Contents The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production to commercial requirements. Difficulties may arise related to production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product or product candidates and quality control testing, sourcing scarcities, resource constraints, equipment problems, shortages of qualified personnel, labor disputes, severe weather events, unstable political environments or financial difficulties at foreign facilities, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. In addition, due to our small patient population, the manufacture of our drug may be given lower prioritization on the production line if manufacturing is decided by scale. We depend on our third-party supplier and manufacturers for compliance with the FDA's cGMP requirements and other FDA requirements, Drug Enforcement Administration's regulations and other rules and regulations prescribed by applicable non-U.S. regulatory authorities. We do not control the manufacturing process of, and are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturing partners for compliance with good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, requirements. If our contract manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to our specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or others, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to market PROCYSBI and to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved. If we or our third-party suppliers and manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may issue warning letters or untitled letters; seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; suspend any ongoing clinical trials; refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to applications; suspend or impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; seize or detain products; or request that we initiate a product recall. If any of these events were to occur, our reputation would be harmed, revenues from sales of our products would be delayed or diminished and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. PROCYSBI is, and any other future product candidates, if approved, will be, subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements and continued regulatory review, which will result in significant expense. Additionally, PROCYSBI and our future product candidates, if approved, may be subject to labeling and other restrictions or potential market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties and litigation if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience problems with our products. Our manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, storage, adverse event reporting, dispensation, distribution, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping are subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, ongoing maintenance of product registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs, GCPs, good distribution practices, or GDPs, and good laboratory practices, or GLPs. If we do not comply with applicable regulations and requirements, the range of possible sanctions includes adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, suspension of marketing applications, withdrawal of a product's approval and enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. In addition, if we or a regulatory agency discover previously unknown problems with PROCYSBI, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or identify data that suggest that PROCYSBI may present a risk to safety, the regulatory authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is withdrawn, our growth prospects and our operating results will be adversely affected. Moreover, any regulatory approvals that we obtain will be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for potentially costly post-market testing and surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product. The FDA and EC strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products and our product labeling, advertising and promotion is subject to continuing regulatory review. Physicians nevertheless may prescribe our product to their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, or that is off-label. The FDA, the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the Economic European Area, or EEA, and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses, and if we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses we may be subject to significant sanctions, civil and criminal fines and injunctions prohibiting us from engaging in specified promotional conduct. 22 Table of Contents In addition, engaging in improper promotion of our products for off-label uses in the U.S. can subject us to false claims litigation under federal and state statutes, which can lead to consent decrees, civil money penalties, restitution, criminal fines and imprisonment, and exclusion from participating in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state health care programs. These false claims statutes in the U.S. include the federal False Claims Act, which allows any individual to bring a lawsuit against a pharmaceutical company on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, for payment by a federal program such as Medicare or Medicaid. If the government prevails in the lawsuit, the individual will share in any fines or settlement funds. Growth in false claims litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay settlement fines or restitution, agree to comply with burdensome reporting and compliance obligations, and be excluded from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. In the EEA, the advertising and promotion of pharmaceuticals is strictly regulated, and the direct-to-consumer promotion of prescription pharmaceuticals is not permitted. The Member States of the EEA have also adopted laws against misleading and unfair advertising. In addition, some Member States require the notification and/or prior authorization of promotional or advertising materials directed at health care professionals. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to the imposition of administrative fines and criminal penalties, civil litigation leading to injunctive relief to stop the advertising, corrective statements, or damages. If serious adverse side effects become associated with PROCYSBI, our business will be harmed. The prescribing information for PROCYSBI includes several warnings relating to observed adverse reactions of cysteamine bitartrate usage. These adverse reactions were not observed in our clinical trials supporting PROCYSBI's NDA and MAA, but were required on our label due to our submission of a 505(b)(2) application in the U.S. and a hybrid application in the EU. The FDA may require products approved under Section 505(b)(2) of the FDCA to bear the same or similar warning statements as the reference product. We expect to update adverse reactions listed in the prescribing information based on continued commercial use and additional clinical trials. If additional adverse reactions emerge, or if there is a pattern of severe or persistent previously observed side effects in the relevant patient populations, the FDA, the EMA or other regulatory agencies could modify or revoke our marketing approval, require us to modify our label, or require us to suspend production, or we may choose to withdraw PROCYSBI from the market. If this were to occur, we may be unable to obtain marketing approval in other indications. In addition, patients or their representatives may bring claims against us alleging serious adverse side effects or harm suffered as a result of use of PROCYSBI. Any such side effects or related claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also the risk factor titled "We may be subject to product liability claims." Pressure on drug product third-party payor coverage, reimbursement and pricing may impair our ability to be reimbursed for PROCYSBI and our other future product candidates at prices or on terms sufficient to provide a viable financial outcome. Market acceptance and sales of PROCYSBI and any product candidates that we may develop will depend in large part on third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures in the U.S. as well as the EU and other key international markets. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain, reduce or shift the costs of healthcare through various means, including an increased emphasis on managed care and attempts to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, may result in downward pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and utilization, which may adversely affect our product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, drug coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. Moreover, private health insurers and other third-party payors in the U.S. often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of government payors, including the Medicare or Medicaid programs. In the U.S., third-party payors are shifting their cost containment measures to specialty products and high-cost drugs and PROCYSBI may be a target of such measures. Beginning April 1, 2013, Medicare payments for all items and services under Part A and B, including drugs and biologicals, and most payments to plans under Medicare Part D were reduced by 2% under the automatic spending reductions, or sequestration, required by the Budget Control Act of 2011, or BCA, as amended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act, or ATRA. The BCA required sequestration for most federal programs, excluding Medicaid, Social Security and certain other programs, because Congress failed to enact legislation by January 15, 2012 to reduce federal deficits by $1.2 trillion over 10 years. As long as BCA cuts remain in effect, they could adversely impact payment for PROCYSBI. In addition, other recent legislative changes that increase manufacturer liability for rebates and other payments under the 340B drug pricing program, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit also could impact our revenues. See the risk factor titled "Enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize PROCYSBI or any other product candidate that we develop and affect the prices we may obtain." 23 Table of Contents Further, payors also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, or ASP, average manufacturer price, or AMP, or actual acquisition cost, or AAC. Although the intent of the changes to reimbursement methodologies generally is to limit payment increases, it is difficult to project the impact of these and other alternative reimbursement methodologies on the willingness of payors to reimburse PROCYSBI and any product candidates that we may develop. Although to date PROCYSBI has been reimbursed, we do not know whether third-party payors will continue to reimburse PROCYSBI in the U.S. and whether third-party payors will reimburse RP103 and our future products for future commercial indications until we enter into payor negotiations. If coverage and reimbursement are not available or available only to limited levels, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to meet our operating costs or to achieve our revenue, cash flow breakeven or profitability goals in the timeframe that we expect, or at all. Enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize PROCYSBI or any other product candidate that we develop and affect the prices we may obtain. In the U.S., there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that restrict or regulate post-approval activities, which may affect our ability to profitably sell PROCYSBI or any other product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or MMA, changed the way Medicare covers and pays for pharmaceutical products. The legislation expanded Medicare coverage for outpatient drug purchases by those covered by Medicare under a new Part D and introduced a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for Medicare Part B physician-administered drugs. In addition, this legislation authorized Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to use formularies whereby they can limit the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. As a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, there is additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. While the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. These cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of the MMA could decrease the coverage and reimbursement that we receive for any approved products, and could seriously harm our business. Manufacturers' contributions to this area, including donut hole coverage (as described below) or potential excise taxes, are increasing and are subject to additional changes in the future. In 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (together, the "Health Care Reform Law"), a sweeping law intended to broaden access to health insurance, reduce or constrain the growth of healthcare spending, enhance remedies against fraud and abuse, add new transparency requirements for healthcare and health insurance industries, impose new taxes and fees on the health industry and impose additional health policy reforms. The Health Care Reform Law, among other things, revised the definition of AMP for reporting purposes, which could increase the amount of Medicaid drug rebates to states and extended the rebate program to beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations. The Health Care Reform Law also imposed a significant annual fee on companies that manufacture or import branded prescription drug products and established an annual non-deductible fee on entities that sell branded prescription drugs or biologics to specified government programs in the U.S. The Health Care Reform Law also expanded the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs), including the creation of new penalties for non-compliance and included a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or "donut hole." The Health Care Reform Law includes a provision to increase the Medicaid rebate for line extensions or reformulated drugs, which depending on how this provision is implemented could substantially increase our Medicaid rebate rate (in effect limiting reimbursement for these patients). These and other new provisions are likely to continue the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing, may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners, and may also increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs. See the risk factor titled "Failure to comply with healthcare regulations may subject us to substantial penalties." Legislative and regulatory proposals also have been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA's approval process may subject us to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements. Delays in feedback from the FDA may affect our ability to quickly update or adjust our label in the interest of patient adherence and tolerability. We cannot predict whether other legislative changes will be adopted or how such changes would affect the pharmaceutical industry generally and specifically the commercialization of PROCYSBI. Failure to comply with healthcare regulations may subject us to substantial penalties. Although we do not and will not control referrals of healthcare services or bill directly to Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors, federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency and privacy and security laws and regulations apply to us and our arrangements with healthcare providers, customers and other entities, including our marketing practices, educational programs and pricing policies. The laws that may affect our ability to operate as a commercial organization include: 24 Table of Contents · the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; · federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; · the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; · the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children's Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other "transfers of value" made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members and payments or other "transfers of value" to such physician owners and their immediate family members. Manufacturers were required to begin data collection on August 1, 2013 and to report aggregate data to the government by March 31, 2014 with more detailed reports due by August 1, 2014; · in the EU, in various Member States, including France, the UK, the Netherlands, Italy, or Spain, the legislator or self-regulatory industry bodies have adopted rules requiring the notification and/or publication of certain transfers of value from pharmaceutical companies to health care professionals. For example, France has recently adopted legislation (Law No. 2011-2012, or the "French Sunshine Act," and Decree no. 2013-414 which implements it) requiring pharmaceutical companies to disclose and publish agreements with or transfers of value to health care professionals; and · analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers. The risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are open to a variety of interpretations. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law further strengthened these laws by amending the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the Health Care Reform Law provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments made to physicians for marketing. Certain states mandate implementation of compliance programs and/or the tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to physicians. The shifting compliance environment and the need to build and maintain robust and expandable systems to comply with multiple jurisdictions with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increase the possibility that a healthcare company may violate one or more of the requirements. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the statutory exceptions and safe harbors available under such laws, it is possible that some of our business activities, including our relationships with physicians and other health care providers, some of whom recommend, purchase and/or prescribe our products, could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. While these activities are structured to comply with all applicable laws, if our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market PROCYSBI, RP103 and other future drug candidates and adversely impact our financial results. See also the risk factor titled "If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the U.S., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future business prospects." 25 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program or other governmental pricing programs in the U.S., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future business prospects. We participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and other Federal and state government pricing programs in the U.S., and we may participate in additional government pricing programs in the future. These programs generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to government payors in connection with drugs, including PROCYSBI, that are dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. In some cases, such as with the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. The terms, scope and complexity of these government pricing programs change frequently. Responding to current and future changes may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations are complex and are often subject to interpretation by governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. In addition, the Office of Inspector General has recently increased its focus on the methodologies used by manufacturers to calculate AMP and best price, or BP, to assess manufacturer compliance with reporting requirements under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. We are liable for errors associated with our submission of pricing data and for overcharging government payors. For example, failure to submit monthly/quarterly AMP and BP data on a timely basis could result in a civil monetary penalty of $10,000 per day for each day the submission is late beyond the due date. Failure to make necessary disclosures and/or to identify overpayments could result in allegations against us under the Federal False Claims Act and other laws and regulations. Unexpected refunds to the U.S. government, and responding to a government investigation or enforcement action, would be expensive and time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event that CMS were to terminate our rebate agreement, no federal payments would be available under Medicaid or Medicare for our covered outpatient drugs. Because the target patient populations for PROCYSBI and some of our drug product candidates are small, we must achieve significant market share and obtain relatively high per-patient prices for our products to achieve meaningful gross margins. PROCYSBI and our clinical development of RP103 target diseases with small patient populations, including cystinosis and HD, respectively. A key component of the successful commercialization of a drug product for these indications includes identification of patients and a targeted prescriber base for the drug product. Due to small patient populations, we believe that we would need to have significant market penetration to achieve meaningful revenues and identifying patients and targeting the prescriber base are key to achieving significant market penetration. In addition, the per-patient prices at which we sell PROCYSBI (currently an average of $250,000 per year prior to rebates, discounts, distribution fees and not adjusted for patient compliance in the U.S.) and RP103 for these indications will need to be relatively high in order for us to generate an appropriate return for the investment in these product development programs and achieve meaningful gross margins. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in achieving a sufficient degree of market penetration and/or obtaining or maintaining high per-patient prices for PROCYSBI and RP103 for diseases with small patient populations. Further, even if we obtain significant market share for PROCYSBI and RP103, if approved, because the potential target populations are very small, we may never achieve profitability despite obtaining such significant market share. Furthermore, because the potential target populations are very small, even if we do obtain significant market share for PROCYSBI and RP103, if approved, we may never achieve profitability. Additionally, patients who discontinue therapy or do not fill prescriptions are not easily replaced by new patients, given the limited patient population. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity or regulatory exclusivity for PROCYSBI and some of our orphan drug product candidates, our competitors may sell products to treat the same conditions or sell at greatly reduced prices and our revenues will be significantly reduced. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop RP103 for additional indications and other drugs that may be eligible for FDA and EMA orphan drug designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined as a patient population of less than 200,000 in the U.S., or a patient population greater than 200,000 in the U.S. where there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing the drug will be recovered from sales in the U.S. In the U.S., orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as opportunities for grant funding towards clinical trial costs, tax advantages and user-fee waivers. The company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a given rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the stated condition for a period of seven years, with an additional six months if for a pediatric indication. Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective, a subsequent product is deemed clinically superior, or if the manufacturer is unable to deliver sufficient quantity of the drug. 26 Table of Contents In the EU, the EMA's Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, or COMP, grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 persons in the EU Community and for which no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention, or treatment has been authorized (or the product would be a significant benefit to those affected). Additionally, designation is granted for products intended for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of a life-threatening, seriously debilitating or serious and chronic condition and when, without incentives, it is unlikely that sales of the drug in the EU would be sufficient to justify the necessary investment in developing the medicinal product. An EU orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and 10 years of market exclusivity is granted following medicinal product approval. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. Because the extent and scope of patent protection for some of our drug products may be particularly limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for our products that are eligible for orphan drug designation. For eligible drugs, we plan to rely on the orphan exclusivity period to maintain a competitive position. However, if we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for RP103 for the potential treatment of HD or other potential indications, or our future relevant drug products do not have strong patent protection, our competitors may then sell the same drug to treat the same condition and our revenues will be reduced. Also, without strong patent protection, competitors may sell a generic version upon the expiration of orphan exclusivity, if our patent position is not upheld. Even though we have been granted orphan drug designation in the U.S. prior to the approval of RP103 for the potential treatment of HD, and even if we obtain orphan drug designation for our future drug product candidates, we may not fulfill the criteria for exclusivity or we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any orphan indication. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a particular product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve a drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. The FDA can discontinue Orphan Drug exclusivity after it has been granted if the orphan drug cannot be manufactured in sufficient quantities to meet demand. Positive clinical trial results in any of our RP103 programs increase the risk that Cystagon may be used off-label in those indications in certain geographic areas due to Cystagon's lower cost and our 505(b)(2) filing status. A breakthrough designation or fast track designation for our drug product candidates, if obtained, may not actually lead to a faster review process. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA has a goal of responding to NDAs within 10 months of submission the filing date for standard review, but this timeframe is also often extended. In the future, we may seek approval of our drug candidates under programs designed to accelerate the FDA's review and approval of NDAs. For example, a sponsor may seek FDA designation of a drug candidate as a "fast track product." Fast track products are those products intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and which demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for such disease or condition. If fast track designation is obtained, the FDA may initiate review of sections of an NDA before the application is complete. This "rolling review" is available if the applicant provides and the FDA approves a schedule for the remaining information. In some cases, a product may be approved on the basis of either a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. Approvals of this kind typically include requirements for appropriate post-approval Phase 4 clinical trials to validate the surrogate endpoint or otherwise confirm the effect of the clinical endpoint. In addition, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, which was enacted and signed into law in 2012, established a new category of drugs referred to as "breakthrough therapies," which are defined as drugs intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. In the future, we may request breakthrough designation or fast track designation from the FDA for our other drug product candidates, but we cannot assure that we will obtain such designations. Moreover, even if we obtain breakthrough designation or fast track designation from the FDA, the designations do not guarantee FDA approval of our NDA, that the development program or review timeline will ultimately be shorter than if we had not obtained the designations, or that the FDA will not request additional information, including requesting additional clinical studies (although potentially a post-marketing requirement), during its review. Any request for additional information or clinical data could delay the FDA's timely review of our NDA. We may not be successful in integrating our European operations with our U.S. operations. In connection with the anticipated European commercial launch of PROCYSBI, we have expanded our operations in Europe where we expect to continue to add personnel. We may encounter difficulties successfully managing remotely a substantially larger and internationally diverse organization and may encounter delays in commercialization if we are not successful in integrating our international operations. Challenges related to managing international operations include the following: 27 Table of Contents · the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; · potential miscommunication between U.S. personnel and European personnel due to cultural and language differences; · the small size of our company and our intention to grow at a consistent but measured pace; · ability to operate within diverse individual country regulatory and statutory laws; and · the costs of maintaining EU presence, in-country legal entities and related tax structures. If we fail to obtain and maintain approval from regulatory authorities in international markets for PROCYSBI, RP103 and any future product candidates for which we have rights in international markets, our market opportunities will be limited and our business will be adversely impacted. Sales of our products outside of the U.S. are subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing approvals. Even if the FDA and EC grant marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S., including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or manufacturing and control requirements. In many countries outside the U.S., a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In many cases, the price that we propose to charge for our products is also subject to approval by individual countries before we can launch our product candidates in those countries. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals, complying with foreign regulatory requirements and gaining approved pricing and reimbursement could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Clinical drug development involves a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. If we fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy in our preclinical studies or clinical trials or keep to the terms of a product development program, our future business prospects for these drug product candidates will be materially adversely affected. The success of our development and commercialization efforts will be greatly dependent upon our ability to demonstrate safety and efficacy in preclinical studies and clinical trials. Preclinical studies involve testing in appropriate multiple non-human disease models to demonstrate efficacy and safety. Regulatory agencies evaluate these data carefully before they will authorize clinical testing in humans. If certain preclinical data reveal potential safety issues or the results are inconsistent with an expectation of the drug product candidate's efficacy in humans, the regulatory agencies may require additional testing before allowing human clinical trials. This additional testing will increase program expenses and extend timelines. We may decide to suspend further testing on our drug product candidates or technologies if, in the judgment of our management and advisors, the preclinical test results do not support further development. There are many potential preclinical models to test for different disease states, and we could fail to choose the best preclinical model to determine proof of concept, safety and efficacy of our drug product candidates. Following successful preclinical testing, drug product candidates must be tested in a clinical development program to provide data on safety and efficacy in humans prior to becoming eligible for product approval and licensure by regulatory agencies. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate with statistical significance that our drug product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a drug product candidate and may delay development of other drug product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our preclinical testing or clinical trials will delay the filing of relevant marketing applications with the regulatory agencies and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our drug product candidates and generate product revenues. The rate of completion of any clinical trials will be dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the trial, the availability of alternative therapies and drugs, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the study. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs and delays. We do not know whether our IND for future products or the protocols for any future clinical trials will be accepted by the FDA. We do not know if our clinical trials will begin or be completed on schedule or at all. Even if completed, we do not know if these trials will produce clinically meaningful results sufficient to support an application for marketing approval. The commencement of our planned clinical trials could be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: 28 Table of Contents · a limited number of, and competition for, suitable patients with particular types of disease for enrollment in clinical trials; · delays or failures in obtaining regulatory clearance to commence a clinical trial; · delays or failures in obtaining sufficient clinical materials; · delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable clinical trial agreement terms or clinical trial protocols with prospective sites; and · delays or failures in obtaining Institutional Review Board, or IRB, approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site. The completion of our clinical trials could also be substantially delayed or prevented by several factors, including: · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment; · failure of patients to complete the clinical trial; · unforeseen safety issues; · lack of efficacy during clinical trials; · inability or unwillingness of patients or medical investigators to follow our clinical trial protocols; · inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment; and · regulatory action by the FDA for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. In addition, many of our clinical trials involve small patient populations. Patient enrollment is a significant factor in the timing of clinical trials, and is affected by many factors including the size and nature of the patient population, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, the design of the clinical trial, competing clinical trials and clinicians' and patients' perceptions as to the potential advantages of the drug being studied in relation to other available therapies, including any new drugs that may be approved for the indications we are investigating. Moreover, because of the small sample size, the results of these early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. Any delay in our preclinical or clinical programs or the failure to demonstrate safety or efficacy in our clinical trials would have a material adverse effect on our future business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to product liability claims. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing (including through human trials), manufacturing and marketing of drugs. PROCYSBI and our drug product candidates could potentially harm people or allegedly harm people and we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Many of the patients who participate in our current clinical trials and U.S. and EU cystinosis patients who may purchase PROCYSBI commercially are already critically ill or suffering from chronic debilitating diseases. The waivers we obtain from patients participating in clinical trials may not be enforceable and may not protect us from liability or the costs of product liability litigation. We may not be able to avoid significant liability if any product liability claim is brought against us. Although we currently carry product liability insurance, it may not be sufficient to cover future claims. If a successful product liability claim is brought against us and the amount of liability exceeds our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial charges that would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third parties for the distribution and pharmaceutical services of PROCYSBI in the U.S. and the EU. We rely on a third-party logistics provider and specialty pharmacy to distribute PROCYSBI to patients and to collect from insurance companies and government agencies in the U.S. and in the EU. Our ability to collect from the logistics provider is not only subject to such provider's credit worthiness but is also dependent, in part, on its ability to arrange for full reimbursement from third-party payors. The outsourcing of our distribution function is complex, and we may experience difficulties that could reduce, delay or stop shipments of PROCYSBI. If we encounter such distribution problems, and we are unable to quickly enter into a similar agreement with another specialty distributor on substantially similar terms, if at all, the distribution of PROCYSBI could become disrupted, resulting in reduced revenues, healthcare provider dissatisfaction and/or patient dissatisfaction which may harm our reputation and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents Our reliance on third parties may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, preclinical testing, clinical trials or regulatory marketing submissions. In the course of product development, we engage and collaborate with a variety of external organizations to perform services essential to drug product development. The organizations which perform services may include, but are not limited to: · governmental agencies and university laboratories; · other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies; · contract manufacturing organizations; · clinical research organizations; · distribution and supply (logistics) service organizations; · contract testing organizations; · consultants or consulting organizations with specialized knowledge based expertise; · intellectual property legal firms; and · multiple other service organizations. As a result of our engagement of these types of organizations to help us with our product development programs, many important aspects of our business are and will be out of our direct control. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our product development programs complies with applicable regulatory requirements, and our reliance on these organizations does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. If any such organizations we engage in the future fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform in a satisfactory manner in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, we may face delays in completing our development and commercialization processes for any of our drug product candidates and could be required to repeat testing or clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials, regulatory filings and the potential market approval of our drug product candidates. Specifically, we have and will continue to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to assist us in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results. If third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards, this will result in delays in or failures to complete trials. A failure by us or such third parties to observe the terms of a product development program for any particular product candidate or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the anticipated time frame could have significant negative repercussions on our business and financial condition. In addition, our dependence on collaborative arrangements with third parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products: · collaborative arrangements might not be available on terms which are reasonably favorable to us, or at all; · disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; · agreement terms may be difficult or costly to enforce; · partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our product candidates, or may not perform their obligations as expected; · partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; · agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach agreements with us; · business combinations or significant changes in a partner's business strategy or financial resources might adversely affect that partner's willingness or ability to fulfill its obligations to us; and · the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. 30 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate acceptable future collaboration agreements or that those currently in existence will make it possible for us to fulfill our objectives. We depend on the support of key scientific and medical collaborators. We must establish and maintain relationships with key opinion leaders, leading scientists and research institutions. We believe that such relationships are pivotal to establishing products using our technologies as a standard of care for their approved indications. Although we have various medical and scientific advisors and research collaborations, there is no assurance that our advisors and our research collaborators will continue to work with us or that we will be able to attract additional research partners. If we are not able to maintain existing or establish new clinical and scientific relationships to assist in our commercialization and research and development, we may not be able to successfully develop PROCYSBI, RP103 or our other drug product candidates. We will continue to incur increased costs as a result of corporate governance and financial reporting laws and regulations and our management will continue to be required to devote substantial time to comply with such laws and regulations. We face burdens relating to increased corporate governance and financial reporting standards. Legislation or regulations, such as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as other rules implemented by the FDA, the SEC and NASDAQ, follow stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards and have led to an increase in the costs of compliance, including substantial increases in consulting, auditing and legal fees. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to comply with these new laws and regulations may impact our financial condition and could materially harm our business. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Our success depends on our ability to manage our projected growth. Continued commercial sales of PROCYSBI in the U.S., the EU commercial launch of PROCYSBI, expansion of our commercial operations into other markets, the continuation of our clinical-stage programs and our current plans to in-license and acquire additional clinical-stage product candidates will require us to retain existing and add required new qualified and experienced personnel in all functional areas over the next several years. Also, if our preclinical pipeline diversifies through internal discoveries, or the acquisition or in-licensing of new molecules, we will need to hire additional scientists to supplement our existing scientific expertise over the next several years. Our staff, financial resources, systems, procedures or controls may be inadequate to support our expanding operations and our management may be unable to take advantage of future market opportunities or manage successfully our relationships with third parties if we are unable to adequately manage our anticipated growth and the integration of new personnel. 31 Table of Contents Our loan agreement with HealthCare Royalty Partners II, L.P., or HC Royalty, contains a number of restrictive covenants and other provisions, which, if violated, could result in the acceleration of the payment terms of our outstanding indebtedness, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. In December 2012, we entered into a loan agreement with HC Royalty as lender, under which we agreed to borrow $50.0 million in two $25.0 million tranches, or the HC Royalty loan agreement. We drew down the first tranche in the amount of $25.0 million in December 2012 upon signing the HC Royalty loan agreement and we drew down the second tranche of $25.0 million in May 2013 as a result of our achievement of the milestone of U.S. approval of PROCYSBI. The HC Royalty loan agreement includes a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including the use of commercially reasonable efforts to exploit PROCYSBI and RP103 in specific markets and compliance with laws, as well as restrictions on mergers and sales of assets, incurrence of liens, incurrence of indebtedness and transactions with affiliates and other requirements. To secure the performance of our obligations under the HC Royalty loan agreement, we granted a security interest to HC Royalty in substantially all of our assets, the assets of our domestic subsidiaries and a pledge of stock of certain of our domestic subsidiaries. Our failure to comply with the terms of the HC Royalty loan agreement and related documents, the occurrence of a change of control of our Company or the occurrence of an uncured material adverse effect on our Company, or our wholly-owned subsidiary Raptor Pharmaceuticals, or the occurrence of certain other specified events, could result in an event of default under the HC Royalty loan agreement that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the payment of all of our indebtedness to HC Royalty and interest thereon. Under the terms of the security agreement, in an event of default, the lender could potentially take possession of, foreclose on, sell, assign or grant a license to use our pledged collateral and assign and transfer the pledged stock of certain of our subsidiaries. A default or material adverse effect or change of control would also trigger a prepayment penalty which would require us to pay a substantially higher amount due than the current balance of our loan. Credit risks from customers outside the U.S. may negatively affect our results of operations. Any future sales of our products to government supported customers outside of the U.S. are likely to be subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices, which will result in an increase in the length of time that we may have accounts receivable outstanding. For example, many governments in Europe are facing significant liquidity crises. If government reimbursement for future sales of PROCYSBI or our potential products in the EU is delayed or becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts payable to us in reasonable time frames from such customers and our capital requirements will increase and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions. Various macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations and financial condition, including changes in inflation, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and overall economic conditions and uncertainties, including those resulting from conditions in the global financial markets and business and economic conditions. For instance, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, it may not be feasible to increase the price of PROCYSBI or other future products due to the process by which healthcare providers are reimbursed. In the recent past, the U.S. credit and capital markets experienced historic dislocations and a massive liquidity crisis which caused financing to be unavailable in many cases, or caused the cost of financing to significantly increase. Any similar disruption in the financial markets may increase uncertainty in the debt and equity markets, which may negatively impact our ability to access financing on favorable terms in the future. In addition, our suppliers, manufacturers and other third parties important to our business also may be negatively affected by such potential market dislocations and disruptions, and their businesses may be disrupted which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any product sales could be reduced by imports from countries where our product candidates are available at lower prices. Even though we have FDA approval of PROCYSBI, our recognized product sales in the U.S. may be reduced if PROCYSBI is imported into the U.S. from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. In the U.S., prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico. There have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the U.S. If such legislation were enacted, our potential future revenues could be reduced. Our future international sales and operating expenses will be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If and when we launch PROCYSBI in the EU and in other countries outside the U.S., a portion of our business will be conducted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We will recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business will likely cause foreign currency translation gains and losses in the future. Because of the number of currencies that may be involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we may suffer significant foreign currency translation and transaction losses in the future due to the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. 32 Table of Contents Our future success depends, in part, on the continued services of our management team. Our success is dependent in part upon the availability of our senior executive officers, including Christopher M. Starr, Ph.D., Chief Executive Officer; Julie Anne Smith, Chief Operating Officer; Georgia Erbez, Chief Financial Officer and Ted Daley, Chief Business Officer. The loss or unavailability to us of any of these individuals or key research and development personnel, and particularly if lost to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have key-man insurance on any of our employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain key employees or consultants. There is intense competition for qualified scientists and managerial personnel from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic and government organizations, research institutions and other entities. If key employees terminate their employment, or if insufficient numbers of qualified employees are retained, or are not available via recruitment, to maintain effective operations, our development activities might be adversely affected, management's attention might be diverted from managing our operations to hiring suitable replacements and our business might suffer. In addition, we might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees that terminate their employment with us and we may not be able to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, which could negatively impact our product candidate development timelines and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. In addition to our employees, we rely and will continue to rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors will be employed by other employers or be self-employed, and will have commitments to or consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the time frames we expect and announce, the price of our common stock may decline. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory, market launch and commercialization goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones include the completion of reimbursement and pricing negotiations and a commercial launch in the EU and other territories, commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials, and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the estimated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones will be based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. For example, clinical trials may be delayed due to factors such as institutional review board, or IRB, approvals, qualification of clinical sites, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient enrollment. In most circumstances, we rely on academic institutions, major medical institutions, governmental research organizations (U.S. or internationally based), clinical research organizations or contract manufacturing organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our product candidates. We will have limited control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials. Furthermore, our ability to launch commercial sales of PROCYSBI in the EU is subject to the timely completion of reimbursement and pricing negotiations with various governmental entities in the EU, which process can be lengthy and uncertain. See also the risk factors titled "The amount of our product sales of PROCYSBI in the EU is dependent upon the pricing and reimbursement guidelines adopted in each of the various countries in the EU, which levels may be below our current expectations" and "Our reliance on third parties may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, preclinical testing, clinical trials or regulatory marketing submissions." If we do not meet the milestones as publicly announced, or as projected by various security analysts who follow our Company, our stockholders or potential stockholders may lose confidence in our ability to meet overall product development and commercialization goals and, as a result, the price of our common stock may decline. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facility and equipment, or that of our third-party manufacturers or single-source suppliers, which could materially impair our ability to continue our product development programs. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We and the contract manufacturers and our single-source suppliers of raw materials and critical services are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, storms, floods, power losses and similar events. If such a disaster were to occur, our ability to continue our product development programs or product commercialization activities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Competition If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively and our business and financial prospects may be harmed. Where possible, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Patent protection may not be available for some of the drug product candidates we are developing. If we must spend extraordinary time and money protecting our patents, designing around patents held by others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business and financial prospects may be harmed. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. We own or license issued U.S. and foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications related to certain of our drug product candidates. However, these patents and patent applications do not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including the following: • We do not know whether our patent applications will result in issued patents. For example, we may not have developed a method for treating a disease before others developed similar methods; • Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us, or file patent applications before we do. Competitors may also claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore cannot practice our technology as claimed under our patents, if issued. Competitors may also contest our patents, if issued, by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our patents, if issued, are not valid for a number of reasons. If a court agrees, we would lose that patent. As a Company, we have no meaningful experience with competitors interfering with our patents or patent applications; • Enforcing patents is expensive and may absorb significant management time. Management would spend less time and resources on developing drug product candidates. The processes of defending patents and related intellectual property could increase our operating expenses and delay product programs; and • Receipt of a patent may not provide practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. In addition, competitors also seek patent protection for their technology. Due to the number of patents in our field of technology, we cannot be certain that we do not infringe on those patents or that we will not infringe on patents granted in the future. If a patent holder believes our drug product candidate infringes on its patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology. If someone else claims we infringe on their technology, we would face a number of issues, including the following: • Defending a lawsuit takes significant time is typically very expensive; • If a court decides that our drug product candidate infringes on the competitor's patent, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement; • A court may prohibit us from selling or licensing the drug product candidate unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us. The patent holder is not required to grant us a license. If a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • Redesigning our drug product candidates so we do not infringe may not be possible or practical and could require substantial funds and time. Our trade secrets may not be adequately protected. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may also support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational institutions. These research partners may be unwilling to grant us any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations prior to entering into the relationship. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in our product development efforts while we attempt to design around other patents or even be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling drug product candidates requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or drug product candidates developed in collaboration with other parties. 34 Table of Contents If we are limited in our ability to utilize acquired or licensed technologies, we may be unable to develop, out-license, market and sell our product candidates, which could prevent new product introductions and/or cause delayed new product introductions. We have acquired and licensed certain proprietary technologies and plan to further license and acquire various patents and proprietary technologies owned by other parties. The agreements in place are critical to our product development programs. These agreements may be terminated, and all rights to the technologies and product candidates will be lost, if we fail to perform our obligations under these agreements and licenses in accordance with their terms including, but not limited to, our ability to fund all payments due under such agreements. Our inability to continue to maintain these technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business strategy depends on the successful development of licensed and acquired technologies into commercial products, and, therefore, any limitations on our ability to utilize these technologies may impair our ability to develop, out-license or market and sell our product candidates, delay new product introductions, and/or adversely affect our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our licensing agreements are terminated, we will lose the right to use or exploit our owned and licensed technologies. Most of our patent portfolio pertaining to PROCYSBI and RP103 for cystinosis and other therapeutic indications has been licensed from academic institutions. Our license agreements with these institutions include termination clauses which permit the licensor to terminate our license under certain circumstances, including if we materially breach our obligations and fail to remedy the breach within permitted cure periods. If one or more of our licenses is terminated, we would have no further right to use or exploit the patents, know-how and other intellectual property rights relating to those respective technologies and it could impact our ability to market PROCYSBI or continue our development programs of RP103 in other clinical indications. If this happens our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected, and we may have to cease our operations. If our competitors succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than our own, or if scientific developments change our understanding of the potential scope and utility of our drug product candidates, then our technologies and future drug product candidates may be rendered less competitive. We face significant competition from industry participants that are pursuing similar technologies that we are pursuing and are developing pharmaceutical products that are competitive with PROCYSBI or our drug product candidates. Many of our pharmaceutical competitors who are in areas competitive with us have greater capital resources, larger overall research and development staff and facilities, and a longer history in drug discovery, development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing than we do. With these additional resources and experience, our competitors may be able to respond to rapid and significant technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries faster than we can. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Rapid technological development, as well as new scientific developments, may result in our compounds, drug products, drug product candidates or processes becoming obsolete before we can recover any or all of the expenses incurred to develop them. For example, changes in our understanding of the appropriate population of patients who should be treated with a targeted therapy like we are developing may limit the drug's market potential if it is subsequently demonstrated that only certain subsets of patients should be treated with the targeted therapy. If our agreements with employees, consultants, advisors, suppliers and corporate partners fail to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets, it could have a significant adverse effect on us. We have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate and educational institution partners. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements Our commercialization efforts and clinical development programs will require substantial future funding which will impact our operational and financial condition. Excluding PROCYSBI for cystinosis, it will take a substantial period of time before we are able to develop our other drug product candidates into marketable drug products, if at all. The marketing and sales efforts for PROCYSBI and any future approved products, obtaining adequate reimbursement for products and our product development programs will require substantial additional capital, arising from costs to: 35 Table of Contents • conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies and clinical trials; • establish or contract for pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; • market and distribute PROCYSBI and any future approved products; and • establish and develop quality control, manufacturing, regulatory, medical, distribution, marketing, sales, finance and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: • the effectiveness of our commercialization activities; • the scope and results of preclinical testing and human clinical trials; • the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; • our ability to obtain, and the time and costs involved in obtaining, regulatory approvals; • the cost of manufacturing scale-up for new product candidates; • our ability to prosecute, maintain and enforce, and the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing, patent claims; • competing technological and market developments; • our ability to establish additional collaborations; and • changes in our existing collaborations. We base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include the success of our commercial sales of PROCYSBI in the U.S. and EU, our efforts to commercialize any future approved products, the success of our research initiatives, regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control, such as negotiations with healthcare payors and potential strategic partners and other factors. In addition, certain product programs may require collaborative agreements with corporate partners with greater financial and organizational resources than we have. Such agreements may require substantial time to complete and may not be available in the time frame desired or with acceptable financial terms, if at all. Any of these factors may significantly change the timing and amount of our cash requirements as they determine such one-time events as the receipt or payment of milestone-based and other payments. Significant additional funds from outside financing sources will be required to support our operations. If we are unable to obtain them on acceptable terms, we may be required to cease or reduce further development of PROCYSBI and our other drug product programs, to sell some or all of our technology or assets, to merge with another entity or to cease operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our operational and financial results will be adversely affected. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $205.4 million. We may need to raise additional capital and/or generate significant revenue at profitable levels to fund our development and commercialization programs in accordance with our plans. If we fail to raise additional financing when needed, we may have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, scale back our operations and/or reduce our commercial expenses for PROCYSBI, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. While we believe that based upon our projected PROCYSBI sales and planned operations, our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2013 of approximately $83.1 million will be sufficient to meet our projected operational requirements and obligations through at least through the first half of 2015, in the future, we may need to sell equity or debt securities to raise additional funds to support, among other things, our development and commercialization programs. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities will result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional financing may not be available on a timely basis, in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us, or at all. We may be unable to raise additional capital due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our research and development programs, the status of regulatory reviews for marketing approvals, the status of our commercialization activities, sales of PROCYSBI in the U.S., the execution of our launch of PROCYSBI in Europe and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise additional financing when needed, we may have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, scale back our operations and/or reduce our commercial expenses for PROCYSBI. If such actions are required, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected and our future value may be significantly reduced. 36 Table of Contents Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our indebtedness. The required payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness under the HC Royalty loan agreement may require a substantial portion, or all, of our available cash to be dedicated to the service of these debt obligations. The loan bears interest at an annual fixed rate of 10.75% and a synthetic royalty based on the amount of PROCYSBI and other future approved product net revenues in a calendar year, and such royalty is payable quarterly. Principal payments under the HC Royalty loan agreement will become due beginning in June 2015. There is no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that we will have capital resources in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness to HC Royalty. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund these debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay product development, sales and marketing, and capital and other expenditures, and we may be forced to restructure our indebtedness or raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt instruments. We cannot ensure that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or raise additional capital on a timely basis, in sufficient amounts, on satisfactory terms or at all. In addition, the terms of the HC Royalty loan agreement may limit our ability to pursue any of these financing alternatives and these alternatives may not enable us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Failure to meet our debt service obligations may result in an event of default under the HC Royalty loan agreement, which would permit the lender to accelerate the payment of all of our indebtedness to HC Royalty and interest thereon, take possession of, foreclose on, sell, assign or grant a license to use, our pledged collateral and assign and transfer the pledged stock of our subsidiaries. A default or material adverse effect or change of control would also trigger a prepayment penalty which would require us to pay a substantially higher amount due than the current balance of our loan. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock We may fail to meet publicly announced financial guidance or other expectations about our business, which would cause our stock to decline in value. There are a number of reasons why we might fail to meet financial guidance or other expectations about our business, including, but not limited to, the following: • unexpected difficulties in the commercialization of PROCYSBI in the U.S. or in the EU; • the effectiveness of our sales, marketing and distribution efforts and overall success of our commercialization efforts in the U.S. and in the EU; • lower than expected pricing and reimbursement levels, or no reimbursement at all, for PROCYSBI; • current and future competitive products that have or obtain greater acceptance in the market than PROCYSBI; • negative publicity about the results of our clinical trials, or those of others with similar or related products; • if only a subset of or no affected patients respond to therapy with PROCYSBI or future products, if any; • the inability to sell a product at the price we expect; or • the inability to supply enough product to meet demand. If we fail to meet our revenue and/or expense projections and/or other financial guidance for any reason, our stock price could decline. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses over short periods of time for our stockholders. The trading volume in our common stock may be relatively small. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our operating performance, both financial and in the development of approved products, affects and will continue to significantly affect the market price of our common stock. We face a number of risks including those described in this Risk Factors section, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations including general economic and technology trends, regardless of our operating performance. The NASDAQ Global Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of securities of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies in a comparable stage to us have historically been particularly volatile and trading volume in such securities has often been relatively small. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. The stock market also has periods during which industry segments, such as biotechnology, are in volatile swings of greater or lesser favor as investments. These swings may affect in particular the stock prices of companies such as ours that do not have conventional measures of financial and business health such as sales, earnings, profitability and related measures. These broad market fluctuations, during which our stage of company and our industry may experience a stronger degree of market sensitivity, will adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market resulting in substantial price declines of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation can result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. A substantial number of shares of our common stock are eligible for future sale in the public market, and the issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of raising capital to fund our operations, financing acquisitions and the expansion of our business, will have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived market risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock, including pursuant to the exercise of our currently outstanding warrants and stock options, or issuances of securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares of our common stock could cause some of our stockholders to sell their common stock, thus causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market, exercises of our currently outstanding warrants and stock options and the subsequent sale of the shares acquired thereunder or the sale by us of shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock for capital raising purposes could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If our common stock price declines, it will be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or we may be unable to raise additional capital at all. We have entered into an Amended and Restated Sales Agreement with Cowen and Company, which, if utilized further, will create substantial dilution for our existing stockholders. The original Sales Agreement provided for at-the-market sales of our common stock with aggregate gross proceeds of up to $40.0 million. On July 3, 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Sales Agreement to increase the aggregate gross sales proceeds that may be raised pursuant to the agreement to $100.0 million. Sales in the at-the-market offering were made pursuant to our prospectus supplement dated April 30, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 2 dated July 3, 2013, which supplements our prospectus dated February 3, 2012, filed as part of the shelf registration statement that was declared effective by the SEC on February 3, 2012. As of December 31, 2013, an aggregate of approximately $46.2 million remained available for future sales of our common stock under the Amended and Restated Sales Agreement. In connection with other collaborations, joint ventures, license agreements or future financings that we may enter into in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, and the value of the securities issued may be substantial and create additional dilution to our existing and future common stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, investors will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. Investors seeking dividend income should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We anticipate that we will retain our earnings to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. Investors seeking dividend income should not invest in our common stock. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. 38 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, in our stockholder rights plan and in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or complicate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law as currently in effect may make a change in control of our Company more difficult, even if a change in control may be beneficial to the stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock, none of which are issued or outstanding. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party, including: a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; the fact that stockholder meetings must be called by our board of directors; and provisions requiring stockholders to provide advance notice of proposals. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. We are a party to a stockholder rights plan, also referred to as a poison pill, which is intended to deter a hostile takeover of us by making such proposed acquisition more expensive and less desirable to the potential acquirer. The stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 