ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which are some of the factors that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. An economic slowdown in Central Indiana could hurt our business. 31 Because we focus our business in central Indiana, an economic slowdown in this area could hurt our business. An economic slowdown could have the following consequences: · Loan delinquencies may increase; · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · Demand for the products and services of Lincoln Bank may decline; and · Collateral for loans made by Lincoln Bank may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and making existing loans less secure. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and result of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. If rates increase rapidly as a result of an improving economy, we may have to increase the rates paid on our deposits and borrowed funds more quickly than loans and investments reprice, resulting in a negative impact on interest spreads and net interest income. The impact of rising rates could be compounded if deposit customers move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. Conversely, should market interest rates fall below current levels, our net interest margin could also be negatively affected, as competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing rates on our deposits, and prepayments and curtailments on assets may continue. Such movements may cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. We also are subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and/or may make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowings costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest rates on existing loans and securities. The severity of the impact of market interest rate changes on our business would tend to increase if rates moved more rapidly as compared to gradual, measured changes. Under direction from our Board of Directors management has implemented certain measurements designed to monitor the interest rate risk exposure inherent in our business. Through the use of periodic modeling management manages the balance sheet to ensure that our interest rate sensitivity does not exceed Board approved limits. Our commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans expose us to increased credit risks. At December 31, 2005, our portfolio of commercial real estate loans totaled $142.0 million, or 23.5 % of total loans, our commercial business loan portfolio totaled $72.4 million, or 12.0%, and our portfolio of construction loans totaled $39.1 million, or 6.5% of total loans. We plan to continue to emphasize the origination of these types of loans. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans generally have greater credit risk than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of these loans often depends on the successful business operations on the borrowers. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or construction loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship may expose us to significantly greater risk of loss, compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. 32 We maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level to absorb the losses that we believe are probable in our portfolio. Potentially, this allowance may not be adequate to absorb the losses that we actually incur. Should this occur our earnings could be negatively impacted. We are subject to extensive regulation and legislative or regulatory changes could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on them. Policies adopted or required by these governmental authorities can affect our business operations and the availability, growth and distribution of Lincoln Bank’s investments, borrowings and deposits. In addition, the Office of Thrift Supervision periodically conducts examinations of the Holding Company and Lincoln Bank and may impose various requirements or sanctions. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are frequently raised in Congress and before bank regulatory authorities. Changes in applicable laws or policies could materially affect our business, and the likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. Moreover, it is impossible to predict the ultimate form any proposed legislation might take or how it might affect us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. ITEM 