ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Above average interest rate risk associated with fixed-rate loans may have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. The Bank’s loan portfolio includes a significant amount of loans with fixed rates of interest. At December 31, 2011, $135.8 million, or 47.7% of the Bank’s total loans receivable, had fixed interest rates all of which were held for investment. The Bank offers ARM loans and fixed-rate loans. Unlike ARM loans, fixed-rate loans carry the risk that, because they do not reprice to market interest rates, their yield may be insufficient to offset increases in the Bank’s cost of funds during a rising interest rate environment. Accordingly, a material and prolonged increase in market interest rates could be expected to have a greater adverse effect on the Bank’s net interest income compared to other institutions that hold a materially larger portion of their assets in ARM loans or fixed-rate loans that are originated for committed sale in the secondary market. For a discussion of the Bank’s loan portfolio, see “Item 1. Business– Lending Activities.” Higher loan losses could require the Company to increase its allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers do not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial results and condition. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, in a rising interest rate environment, borrowers with adjustable-rate loans could see their payments increase. There may be a significant increase in the number of borrowers who are unable or unwilling to repay their loans, resulting in our charging off more loans and increasing our allowance. In addition, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios. Our allowance for loan losses at any particular date may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses. We may be required to increase our allowance for loan losses, thus reducing earnings. Commercial business lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2011, the Bank’s commercial business loan portfolio amounted to $20.7 million, or 7.3% of total loans. Subject to market conditions and other factors, the Bank intends to expand its commercial business lending activities within its primary market area. Commercial business lending is inherently riskier than residential mortgage lending. Although commercial business loans are often collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, the liquidation value of these assets in the event of a borrower default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories and equipment may be obsolete or of limited use, among other things. See “Item 1. Business–Lending Activities–Commercial Business Loans.” Commercial real estate lending may expose the Company to increased lending risks. At December 31, 2011, the Bank’s commercial real estate loan portfolio amounted to $57.7 million, or 20.3% of total loans. Commercial real estate lending is inherently riskier than residential mortgage lending. Because payments on loans secured by commercial properties often depend upon the successful operation and management of the properties, repayment of such loans may be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy, among other things. See “Item 1. Business–Lending Activities–Commercial Real Estate Loans.” 28 Table of Contents A return to recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Following a national home price peak in mid-2006, falling home prices and sharply reduced sales volumes, along with the collapse of the United States’ subprime mortgage industry in early 2007, significantly contributed to a recession that officially lasted until June 2009, although the effects continued thereafter. Dramatic declines in real estate values and high levels of foreclosures resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Concerns over the United States’ credit rating, the European sovereign debt crisis, and continued high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our levels of nonperforming and classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. The recent economic recession has caused a high level of bank failures, which has dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the balance of the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. Increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions. Our special assessment, which was reflected in earnings for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, was $205,000. In lieu of imposing an additional special assessment, the FDIC required all institutions to prepay their assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, which for us totaled $2.3 million. Additional increases in the base assessment rate or additional special assessments would negatively impact our earnings. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area could hurt the Company’s profit and growth. The Bank faces intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for it to make new loans and at times has forced it to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans paying more on deposits, which would reduce net interest income. Competition also makes it more difficult to grow loans and deposits. Some of the institutions with which the Bank competes have substantially greater resources and lending limits than it has and may offer services that the Bank does not provide. Future competition will likely increase because of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. The Company’s profitability depends upon the Bank’s continued ability to compete successfully in its market area. We are subject to federal regulations that seek to protect the Deposit Insurance Fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank, and our federal regulators may impose restrictions on our operations that are detrimental to holders of the Company’s common stock. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the OCC, our primary federal regulators, and the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank rather than for holders of the Company’s common stock. Our regulators may subject us to supervisory and enforcement actions, such as the imposition of certain restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and the determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses, that are aimed at protecting the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of the Bank but that are detrimental to holders of the Company’s common stock. Any change in our regulation or oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 29 Table of Contents Recently enacted legislative reforms and future regulatory reforms required by such legislation could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act restructured the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the OTS, which formerly regulated the Bank, was merged into the OCC. Savings and loan holding companies, including the Company, became regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board System. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions was reduced as well and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against a federally chartered institution for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposed consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in the Bank that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008 and 2009. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies recently have begun to take stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include the entering into of written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on their operations. Federal bank regulators recently have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act or which would otherwise qualify the Bank as being “well capitalized” under the prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 30 Table of Contents 