Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business You should carefully consider the risks described below in evaluating Axonyx and our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. This could cause the price of our stock to decline. This Form 10K contains, in addition to historical information, forward-looking statements, including statements about future plans, objectives, and intentions that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this prospectus. We have had clinical trial failures on our lead compound. We have not achieved statistical significance in the primary endpoints in the Phase III trials conducted to date with our lead compound, Phenserine. We are seeking a partner to continue the development of Phenserine, including conducting additional Phase III trials. These trials are costly. We cannot assure that we will be able to successfully conclude a deal with a partner. If we do find a partner to continue developing Phenserine, we cannot assure that they will successfully develop or commercialize Phenserine. We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit and a shareholder derivative lawsuit which, if determined adversely, could have a material adverse affect on us. A class action securities lawsuit and a shareholder derivative lawsuit have been filed against us as described under “Item 3—Legal Proceedings.” We are defending against these actions vigorously; however, we do not know what the outcome of these proceedings will be and, if we do not prevail, we may be required to pay substantial damages or settlement amounts. Furthermore, regardless of the outcome, we may incur significant defense costs, and the time and attention of our management may be diverted from normal business operations. If we are ultimately required to pay significant defense costs, damages or settlement amounts, such payments could materially and adversely affect our operations and results. In any event, publicity surrounding the lawsuits and/or any outcome unfavorable to us could adversely affect our reputation and share price. The uncertainty associated with substantial unresolved lawsuits could harm our business, financial condition and reputation. We have certain obligations to indemnify our officers and directors and to advance expenses to such officers and directors. Although we have purchased liability insurance for our directors and officers, if our insurance carriers should deny coverage, or if the indemnification costs exceed the insurance coverage, we may be forced to bear some or all of these indemnification costs directly, which could be substantial and may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If the cost of our liability insurance increases significantly, or if this insurance becomes unavailable, we may not be able to maintain or increase our levels of insurance coverage for our directors and officers, which could make it difficult to attract or retain qualified directors and officers. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable NASDAQ Market requirements and NASDAQ determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market (formerly known as the NASDAQ SmallCap Market). In order to maintain our listing, we must meet minimum financial and other requirements. If we are unable to comply with NASDAQ’s listing standards, may determine to delist our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. On December 21, 2005, we received notice from NASDAQ stating that we were out of compliance with bid price requirements because the closing bid price for our common stock was below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. On March 8, 2006 we received a letter from NASDAQ that we had regained compliance with the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If in the future we do not meet the NASDAQ listing requirements based on minimum bid price for our common stock, we would have 180 days to regain compliance with bid price requirements. To regain compliance the closing bid price for our common stock must be a minimum of $1.00 per share for at least 10 consecutive business days. If NASDAQ made a determination to delist our common stock, the delisting procedure would involve a process beginning with NASDAQ’s notification and would include a hearing and the possibility of appeal. There is no 19 assurance that at the end of this process our common stock would continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. If our common stock is delisted for any reason, it could reduce the value of our common stock and its liquidity. Delisting could also adversely affect our ability to obtain financing for the continuation of our operations or to use our common stock in acquisitions. Delisting could result in the loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees. We have a limited operating history. We have a large accumulated deficit and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history upon which investors may base an evaluation of our likely future performance. Since we began operations in 1997 we have been engaged in developing and conducting our research and clinical programs, recruiting outside directors, employees and key consultants, evaluating potential compounds for in-licensing, and consummating patent licensing agreements. To date, we have not had any in-house laboratory facilities in which to conduct any research and will not have any operational laboratories of our own in the near future. We have had only limited revenue from license fees in the amount of $2.75 million to date. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $91,122,000 and our operating losses are continuing. We have no products available for sale and we may never be successful in developing products suitable for commercialization. With the exception of Phenserine, all of our drug candidates are at an early stage of development and all of our drug candidates will require expensive and lengthy testing and regulatory clearances. None of our drug candidates have been approved by regulatory authorities. We have no products available for sale and we do not expect to have any products commercially available for several years, if at all. There are many reasons that we may fail in our efforts to develop our drug candidates, including that: • Our drug candidates will be ineffective, toxic or will not receive regulatory clearances, • Our drug candidates will be too expensive to manufacture or market or will not achieve broad market acceptance, • Our candidates may face generic competition by the time they reach the market place and therefore preclude a return on our investment, • Third parties will hold proprietary rights that may preclude us from developing or marketing our drug candidates, or • Third parties will market equivalent or superior products. The success of our business depends upon our ability to successfully in-license compounds and develop potential drug products. We cannot assure you that our efforts will lead to the successful identification and in-licensing of potential compounds, or if so licensed, that our efforts will lead to the successful development of any therapeutic agents. If any potential products are identified, they will require significant additional research, development, and clinical testing, regulatory approval and substantial additional investment prior to commercialization. Any potential products we identify may not be successfully developed, prove to be safe and efficacious in clinical trials, meet applicable regulatory standards, or be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs or be successfully marketed. Our product candidates may not successfully complete clinical trials required for commercialization, and as a result our business may never achieve profitability. To obtain regulatory approvals needed for the sale of our drug candidates, we must demonstrate through testing and clinical trials that each drug candidate is both safe and effective for the human population that it was intended to treat. In general, two successful Phase III clinical trials are required. The clinical trial process is complex and the regulatory environment varies widely from country to country. Positive results from testing and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in the Phase III human clinical trials. Many companies in our industry have suffered significant setbacks in Phase III, potentially pivotal clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The results from our trials, if any, may show that our drug candidates produce undesirable side effects in humans or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective or not safe or effective enough to compete in the 20 marketplace. Such results could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a drug candidate. Moreover, we, the FDA, or foreign regulatory authorities may suspend or terminate clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or that our drug candidates are not safe or effective enough. Clinical trials are lengthy and expensive. They require adequate supplies of drug substance and sufficient patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population, • the nature of the protocol (i.e., how the drug is given, and the size and frequency of the dose and use of placebo control), • the proximity of patients to clinical sites, and • the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial (i.e., age group, level of symptoms, concomitant diseases or medications etc.). Delays in patient enrollment or negative trial outcomes can result in increased costs and longer development times. Even if we successfully complete clinical trials, we may not be able to file any required regulatory submissions in a timely manner and we may not receive regulatory approval for the particular drug candidate that was tested. In addition, if the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities require additional clinical trials, we could face increased costs and significant development delays. Changes in regulatory policy or additional regulations adopted during product development and regulatory review of information we submit could also result in delays or rejections. We cannot assure you that we will have future revenue or operating profits and you could lose your entire investment. We expect to incur substantial operating losses for at least the next several years. We currently have limited sources of revenue other than interest income and we cannot assure you that we will be able to develop other revenue sources or that our operations will become profitable, even if we are able to commercialize any products. Other than interest or similar income, the only revenue that we have realized to date has been fees totaling $2.75 million paid by Applied Research Systems ARS Holding N.V., a subsidiary of Serono International, S.A., under the terms of the Development Agreement and Right to License and the subsequent License Agreement, which is being terminated. See Item 1, Business, Out-Licensed Technology, Section D. If we do not generate significant increases in revenue, at some point in the future we may not be in a position to continue operations and investors could lose their entire investment. If we fail to comply with the terms of our licensing agreements our licensors may terminate certain licenses to patent rights, causing us to lose valuable intellectual property assets. Under the terms of our licensing agreements with each of our patent licensors, New York University and CURE, LLC (our rights to certain patents under the CURE license are via a license to CURE from the United States Public Health Service on behalf of the National Institute of Aging), our license to the patent rights covering certain of our drug candidates may be terminated if we fail to meet our obligations to the licensors. Under our Research and License Agreement with New York University, as amended, we are obligated to meet certain deadlines for the pre-clinical and clinical development of the licensed AIP and PIP technology, payment of royalties, and filing, maintenance and prosecution of the covered patent rights. NYU can terminate the Research and License Agreement for cause: (a) if we do not cure within 60 days of notice of a material breach or default in the performance or observance of any of the provisions of the agreement or (b) if we fail to pay any amounts due under the agreement, within 30 days after receiving notice from NYU specifying such breach or default, or automatically and (c) immediately without further action, if we discontinue our business or become insolvent or bankrupt. We are obligated, under the provisions of the License Agreement with CURE, LLC to pay certain royalty payments, pay for the filing, prosecution and maintenance of the patent rights covered by the agreement, meet certain development timelines and comply with certain pass through provisions from the License Agreement between CURE, LLC and the PHS. The reversionary rights provision of the License Agreement sets certain deadlines by which we are to achieve certain development milestones, including commencing clinical trials, for Phenserine. If we fail to comply with the development benchmarks or the commercial development plan, or pay the 21 required penalty fees, then all rights to the patents may, at CURE’s election, revert to CURE, and the agreement will terminate. Certain pass through provisions from the License Agreement between CURE, LLC and the PHS are contained in our License Agreement with CURE, LLC. These pass through provisions are binding on us as if we were a party to the License Agreement with the PHS. Those provisions cover certain reserved government rights to the licensed patents, obligations to meet certain benchmarks and perform a commercial development plan, manufacturing restrictions, as well as indemnification, termination and modification of rights. PHS reserves on behalf of the U.S. government or any foreign government or international organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the U.S. government an irrevocable, nonexclusive, nontransferable, royalty free license for the practice of all inventions licensed pursuant to the License Agreement between CURE and PHS for research or other purposes. After making the first commercial sale of licensed products until expiration of the agreement, we must use our reasonable best efforts to make the licensed products and processes reasonably accessible to the U.S. public. PHS reserves the right to terminate or modify the License Agreement if it is determined that such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by federal regulations. We are also obligated, under these pass through provisions, to manufacture licensed products substantially in the U.S., unless a written waiver is obtained in advance from the PHS. We undertook to develop and commercialize the licensed products covered by the patents pursuant to a commercial development plan contained in a pass through provision from the CURE-PHS license agreement. If we fail to cure non-compliance with the commercial development plan after notice from CURE within a reasonable period of time, we could be in material breach of the agreement. We have not, as of this, received notice of default of any of our obligations from CURE, LLC, or the PHS. If we receive written notice of our default or material breach of any of our obligations under the licensing agreements, we must cure the default within ninety days under the license with CURE or sixty days (or concerning payments, 30 days) under the license with New York University, or the relevant licensor may terminate the license. After such termination, we would not be entitled to make any further use whatsoever of the licensed patent rights, or any related licensed know-how. Upon termination of our license agreements, we are required to return the licensed technology to our licensors. We anticipate undertaking similar payment, development milestone, patent prosecution costs, and termination obligations under applications currently pending with NIH for certain patent rights to Posiphen™ and BNC, if such licenses are granted. Our business and prospects could be adversely affected if either or both of these licenses are not granted. The performance of our obligations to the licensors will require increasing expenditures as the development of the licensed drug compounds proceeds. We cannot guarantee that we will be capable of raising the funds necessary to meet our obligations under the license agreements, sublicense part or all of our licensed drug compounds to a third party capable of undertaking the obligations, or fulfill additional licensing obligations. Third party co-ownership concerning certain of our in-licensed patent rights could affect any future decision to commercialize certain drug candidates. There are significant risks regarding the patent rights surrounding Bisnorcymserine, our potential butyrylcholinesterase inhibitor drug candidate, and Posiphen™, a potential pharmaceutical compound for the treatment of AD that is the positive isomer of Phenserine. Because we are not the sole owner of the patent rights, future commercialization of Posiphen™ or Bisnorcymserine may be adversely impacted by the patent rights held by a third party with whom we do not currently have licensing agreements. We are currently seeking licenses from the third party to reduce or eliminate the risks relating to our development and commercialization efforts. Such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all and may impair our ability to commercialize Bisnorcymserine or Posiphen™. A decision not to commercialize these drug candidates could adversely affect our business. We do not currently have the capability to undertake manufacturing, marketing, or sales of any potential products and we have limited personnel to oversee out-sourced clinical testing and the regulatory approval process. We have not invested in manufacturing, marketing or product sales resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire such resources if and when needed. It is likely that we will also need to hire additional personnel skilled in the clinical testing and regulatory compliance process if we develop additional product candidates with commercial potential. We have no history of manufacturing or marketing. We cannot assure you 22 that we will successfully manufacture or market any product we may develop, either independently or under manufacturing or marketing arrangements, if any, with other companies. We currently do not have any arrangements with other companies, and we cannot assure you that any arrangements with other companies can be successfully negotiated or that such arrangements will be on commercially reasonable terms. To the extent that we arrange with other companies to manufacture or market our products, if any, the success of such products may depend on the efforts of those other companies. We do not currently have the capability to conduct clinical testing in-house and do not currently have plans to develop such a capability. We out-source our clinical testing to contract research organizations. We currently have one employee and certain other outside consultants who oversee the contract research organizations involved in clinical testing of our compounds. We cannot assure you that our limited oversight of the contract research organizations will suffice to avoid significant problems with the protocols and conduct of the clinical trials. We depend on contract research organizations to do much of our pre-clinical and all of our clinical testing, and we are substantially dependent on outside manufacturers to develop and manufacture drug product for our drug products. We have engaged and intend to continue to engage third party contract research organizations, or CROs, and other third parties to help us develop our drug candidates. Although we have designed the clinical trials for our drug candidates, the CROs have conducted all of our clinical trials. As a result, many important aspects of our drug development, pre-clinical and clinical programs have been and will continue to be outside of our direct control. In addition, the CROs may not perform all of their obligations under arrangements with us. If the CROs do not perform clinical trials in a satisfactory manner or breach their obligations to us, the development and commercialization of any drug candidate may be delayed or precluded. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources these CROs devote to our programs or product candidates. The failure of any of these CROs to comply with any governmental regulations would substantially harm our development and marketing efforts and delay or prevent regulatory approval of our drug candidates. If we are unable to rely on clinical data collected by others, we could be required to repeat, extend the duration of, or increase the size of our clinical trials and this could significantly delay commercialization and require significantly greater expenditures. If we need additional funds, and if we are unable to raise them, we will have to curtail or cease operations. Our drug development programs and the potential commercialization of our drug candidates require substantial working capital, including expenses for testing, chemical synthetic scale-up, manufacture of drug substance for pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, toxicology studies, clinical trials of drug candidates, payments to our licensors and potential commercial launch of our drug candidates. Our future working capital needs will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and magnitude of our drug development programs, • the scope and results of testing and clinical trials, • the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews, • the costs under current and future license and option agreements for our drug candidates, including the costs of obtaining and maintaining patent protection for our drug candidates, • the costs of acquiring any technologies or additional drug candidates, • the rate of technological advances, • the commercial potential of our drug candidates, • the magnitude of our administrative and legal expenses, including office rent, and • the costs of establishing third party arrangements for manufacturing. We have incurred negative cash flow from operations since we incorporated and do not expect to generate positive cash flow from our operations for at least the next several years. Although since January 2004, we have raised approximately $70 million through financings (less applicable fees) and an additional $13.2 million through the cash exercise of various warrants and options to purchase our common stock, we expect that additional financings will be required in the future to fund our operations. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing to 23 fund our operations, and any additional financing we obtain may be on terms that are not favorable to us. In addition, any future financings (which may include the issuance of warrants issued in connection with such financings) could substantially dilute our stockholders. If adequate funds are not available we will be required to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our drug development programs, to enter into new collaborative arrangements on terms that are not favorable to us i.e., the collaborative arrangements could result in the transfer to third parties of rights that we consider valuable. We are dependent on executive officers and non-employee scientific personnel. Because of the specialized scientific nature of our business, we are highly dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and management personnel. The loss of Gosse B. Bruinsma, M.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer, S. Colin Neill, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and/or Paul Feuerman, our General Counsel, would be detrimental to us. We do not have employment agreements with key scientific personnel who are doing research at the National Institute of Aging related, in some cases, to pharmaceutical compounds licensed via a sublicense to us, and have no assurance that such personnel will continue to be involved with such research. We do not carry key man insurance on any of our personnel. There is intense competition for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development of our business. Loss of the services of or failure to recruit additional key scientific and technical personnel would be detrimental to our research and development programs and business. Most of our Scientific Advisors and our other scientific consultants are employed by academic and research institutions, or are self-employed. For this reason, our advisors and consultants will be able to devote only a portion of their time to us depending on their own priorities. In addition, it is possible, in certain circumstances, that inventions or processes discovered by them will not become the property of our company but will be the property of their full-time employers. Our business could be harmed if we fail to protect our intellectual property. Our patent position, like that of many pharmaceutical companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we do obtain patents, they may not adequately protect the technology we own or have in-licensed. In addition, others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe or circumvent any patents we own or in-license, and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. Further, the manufacture, use or sale of our products or processes, if any, may infringe the patent rights of others. We have licensed rights to certain patented and patent pending proprietary technology from NYU and CURE, LLC to which we are obligated to pay royalties if we or our sub-licensees develop products based upon the licensed technology, and we have certain license applications pending with NIH. Because of the substantial length of time, effort and expense associated with bringing new products through development and regulatory approval to the marketplace, the pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on patent and trade secret protection for new technologies, products and processes. We are obligated to pay the filing, prosecution and maintenance expenses with regard to patents and patent applications we own or have licensed. We and our licensors have filed patent applications in other countries, and we may seek additional patents in the future. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection that any such patents, if issued, will afford us or that any patents based on the patent applications will be issued at all or that we will be granted licenses to certain patents under our pending license applications. In addition, we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or otherwise obtain access to our know-how or that others may not be issued patents that may require licensing and the payment of significant fees or royalties by us for the pursuit of our business. Several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions may have filed patent applications or received patents that cover technologies similar to ours. Our ability to make, use or sell any of our drug candidates may be blocked by patents that have been or will be issued to third parties that we may not be aware of. Patent applications are often first published eighteen months or more after filing and the claim scope frequently undergoes substantial change between publication and issuance of a patent. Therefore, until a patent is issued, we may not be able to determine if a third party has a patent that could preclude us from commercializing our drug candidates. Third party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the coverage of our 24 patents and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. If other parties obtain patents with conflicting claims, we may be required to obtain licenses to these patents or to develop or obtain alternative technology. We may not be able to obtain any such license on acceptable terms or at all. Any failure to obtain such licenses could delay or prevent us from pursuing the development or commercialization of our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our business. Potential litigation concerning patent rights could involve significant expenses and damage our business. In the United States, the first to invent a technology is entitled to patent protection on that technology. For patent applications filed prior to January 1, 1996, United States patent law provides that a party who invented a technology outside the United States is deemed to have invented the technology on the earlier of the date it introduced the invention in the United States or the date it filed its patent application. In many foreign countries, the first party to file a patent application on a technology, not the first to invent the technology, is entitled to patent protection on that technology. Under the patent laws of most countries, a product can be found to infringe a third party patent if the third party patent expressly covers the product or method of treatment using the product, or if the third party patent covers subject matter that is substantially equivalent in nature to the product or method, even if the patent does not expressly cover the product or method. While we have not received notification of potential infringement of patents held by third parties, with respect to any of our drug candidates, litigation, patent opposition and adversarial proceedings could result in substantial costs to us. Litigation and/or proceedings could be necessary or may be initiated to enforce any patents we own or in-license, or to determine the scope, validity and enforceability of other parties’ proprietary rights and the priority of an invention. The outcome of any of these types of proceedings could significantly affect our drug candidates and technology. United States patents carry a presumption of validity and generally can be invalidated only through clear and convincing evidence. Under our license agreements with New York University and CURE LLC, we have the right to pursue any actions against third parties for infringement of the patent rights covered by those agreements. Under those arrangements we are obligated to share any recovery over and above that required for reimbursement of our costs and expenses in bringing the infringement action with our licensors. Under one of those arrangements, our failure to affect the discontinuance of any infringement after a certain period of time can reduce our royalty income. An adverse outcome of these proceedings could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties or require us to cease using such technology, any of which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, the mere uncertainty resulting from the initiation and continuation of any technology related litigation or adversarial proceeding could adversely affect our business pending resolution of the disputed matters. If we do not exercise our right to prosecute and our licensors institute and prosecute patent proceedings, our rights will depend in part upon the manner in which these licensors conduct the proceedings. In any proceedings they elect to initiate and maintain, these licensors may not vigorously pursue or defend or may decide to settle such proceedings on terms that are unfavorable to us. Companies and universities that have licensed product candidates to us for clinical development and marketing are sophisticated competitors that could develop similar products to compete with our products. Licensing product candidates from other companies, universities or individuals does not always prevent them from developing non-identical but competitive products for their own commercial purposes, nor from pursuing patent protection in areas that are competitive with us. The partners who created these technologies are sophisticated scientists and business people who may continue to do research and development and seek patent protection in the same areas that led to the discovery of the product candidates that they licensed to us. The development and commercialization of successful new drugs from our research program is likely to attract additional research by our licensors in addition to other investigators who have experience in developing products for the memory and cognition market. By virtue of the previous research that led to the discovery of the drugs or product candidates that they licensed to us, these companies, universities, or individuals may be able to develop and market competitive products in less time than might be required to develop a product with which they have no prior experience. 25 Despite the use of confidentiality agreements and/or proprietary rights agreements, which themselves may be of limited effectiveness, it may be difficult for us to protect our trade secrets. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require certain of our academic collaborators, contractors and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We might face intellectual property claims that may be costly to resolve and could divert management attention. We may from time to time be subject to claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves in any suits brought against us claiming infringement of the patent rights of others or in asserting our patent rights in a suit against another company. Adverse determinations in any litigation could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek costly licenses from third parties and prevent us or our sublicensees from manufacturing and selling our potential products. Because we depend on third parties for the acquisition and development of drug candidates, we may not be able to successfully acquire additional drug candidates or commercialize or develop our current drug candidates. We do not currently nor do we intend to engage in drug discovery for drug candidate acquisition. Our strategy for obtaining additional drug candidates is to utilize the relationships of our management team and scientific consultants to identify drug candidates for in-licensing from companies, universities, research institutions and other organizations. It is possible that we may not succeed in acquiring additional drug candidates on acceptable terms or at all. If our drug candidates do not achieve market acceptance, our business may never achieve profitability. Our success will depend on the market acceptance of any products we may develop. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including the receipt and scope of regulatory approvals, the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and effectiveness of our products and their potential advantages over existing treatment methods, generic competition and reimbursement policies of government and third party payors. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may not accept or utilize any product that we may develop. The carrying value of our investment in OXIS International may face future impairment. Effective March 1, 2005, we accounted for our investment in OXIS under the equity method of accounting following accounting principles bulletin (APB) No. 18. Any impairment charge would be required if we determined that any reduction in the OXIS market value over the carry value was permanent. Risks Related to Our Industry Potential technological changes in our field of business create considerable uncertainty. We are engaged in the biopharmaceutical field, which is characterized by extensive research efforts and rapid technological progress. New developments in AD research are expected to continue at a rapid pace in both industry and academia. We cannot assure you that research and discoveries by others will not render some or all of our programs or product candidates noncompetitive or obsolete. Our business strategy is based in part upon inhibition of amyloid conformational change and amyloid precursor protein production and processing and the application of these new and unproven technologies to the development of biopharmaceutical products for the treatment of AD and other neurological disorders. We cannot assure you that unforeseen problems will not develop with these technologies or applications or that commercially feasible products will ultimately be developed by us. The markets in which we seek to participate are intensely competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have more experience than we do. 26 There are many companies, both public and private, including well-known pharmaceutical companies, engaged in developing pharmaceutical and biotechnological products for human therapeutic applications in the AD area. Our major competitors are currently the pharmaceutical companies that are marketing the acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for the treatment of AD. The market for such is dominated primarily by Pfizer with its drug Aricept. Warner-Lambert (Cognex), Novartis (Exelon) and, most recently, Johnson and Johnson (Reminyl), have marketed compounds of this type in the United States. Cognex was effectively removed from the market in 1998 due to severe side effects and Aricept currently dominates the market with approximately $1 billion in U.S. sales in 2003. Several other pharmaceutical companies have acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in human clinical trials. In addition, treatment of moderate to severe AD with Memantine was approved in early 2004 as a monotherapy or in combination with donepezil, a commonly prescribed acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Memantine has a different mechanism of action that is focused on the glutamate pathway. These are large pharmaceutical companies with far ranging capabilities to market their drugs and to develop follow on drug products. There can be no guarantees that we will be able to successfully find a partner to further develop Phenserine and obtain regulatory approval for Phenserine and such approval, even if obtained, may be years away. In addition we do not have the capability or the resources of marketing a drug and will have to enter into a collaborative relationship with a larger pharmaceutical company in order to market Phenserine. As Phenserine is also an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, like the majority of the currently marketed drugs, unless the data from future Phenserine clinical trials, if any, reflects the general lack of adverse side effects found in previous clinical trials and the unique mechanism of action involving the inhibition of the beta-amyloid precursor protein found in pre-clinical studies, it will be difficult to distinguish Phenserine from the currently market drugs and gain market share. Certain smaller pharmaceutical companies may also be competitors. Smaller companies may also prove to be competitors through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are also becoming increasingly aware of the commercial value of their inventions and are more actively seeking to commercialize the technology they have developed. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital, research and development and human resources and experience than us and represent significant long-term competition for us. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater experience than us in undertaking testing and clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals. Furthermore, if we or our current or any future licensee is permitted to commence commercial sales of any product, we or our licensee will also be competing with companies that have greater resources and experience in manufacturing, marketing and sales. We have no experience in these areas. These other companies may succeed in developing products that are more effective or less costly than any that may be developed by us or our future licensee and may also prove to be more successful than us or our future licensee in production and marketing. Competition may increase further as a result of the potential advances in the commercial applicability of peptide chemistry and greater availability of capital for investment in these fields. Other companies are engaged in research and product development based on amyloidogenesis and acetylcholinesterase inhibition. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our drug candidates, we will face competition based on the safety and effectiveness of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability of supply, marketing and sales capability, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective or more affordable products, or obtain more effective patent protection, than we do. Accordingly, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could hurt our competitive position. We cannot assure you of FDA approval for our potential products and government regulation may impact our development plans. The FDA and comparable agencies in foreign countries impose rigorous safety and efficacy requirements on the introduction of therapeutic pharmaceutical products through lengthy and detailed laboratory and clinical testing procedures and other costly and time-consuming procedures. Satisfaction of these requirements typically takes a number of years and varies substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the pharmaceutical compounds. One of our drug product candidates is currently in pre-clinical development, and two are in clinical development, and consequently significant regulatory hurdles remain before any application for regulatory approval can be submitted. Only two of our drug product candidates have been tested in human clinical trials. We cannot assure you that the drug candidates currently in development will elicit similar results in human testing to the results in animal testing. We cannot predict with any certainty when we may submit product candidates for FDA or other regulatory approval. 27 Government regulation also affects the manufacture and marketing of pharmaceutical products. The effect of government regulation may be to delay marketing of our new products, if any, for a considerable period of time, to impose costly procedures upon our activities and to furnish a competitive advantage to larger companies that compete with us. We cannot assure you that FDA or other regulatory approval for any products developed by us will be granted on a timely basis, if at all. Any such delay in obtaining, or failure to obtain, such approvals would adversely affect the marketing of our products and the ability to generate product revenue. Government regulation may increase at any time creating additional hurdles for us. The extent of potentially adverse government regulation which might arise from future legislation or administrative action cannot be predicted. We are subject to extensive government regulation and may fail to receive regulatory approval that could prevent or delay the commercialization of our products, if any. Any approval of our drug candidates may be contingent on post-marketing studies or other conditions and the approval of any of our drug candidates may limit the indicated uses of the drug candidate. Further, even if our drug candidates receive regulatory approval, we may still face difficulties in entering into collaborative arrangements for the marketing and manufacturing of those drug candidates. A marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections. The FDA requires that all pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as manufacturing of drug product, meet certain criteria commonly referred to in our industry as Good Practices guidelines, including Good Manufacturing Processes, Good Laboratory Practices and Good Clinical Practices. In our case, contract research organizations and academic or other sponsored research laboratories that we utilize for our pre-clinical and clinical research, as well as API manufacturing of drug product, must comply with these guidelines. Our contracted manufacturers, sponsored research labs and contract research organizations undertake to adhere to Good Manufacturing Processes, Good Laboratory Practices and Good Clinical Practices. In addition, such guidelines and practices may change, and our compliance such changes may have an adverse effect on our business. The discovery of non-compliance with regulatory requirements with respect to a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on the product or manufacturer, including withdrawal of the product from the market. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in any or all of the following: • fines, • suspended regulatory approvals, • refusal to approve pending applications, • refusal to permit exports from the United States, • product recalls, • seizure of products, • injunctions, • operating restrictions, and • criminal prosecutions. Health care reform measures and third party reimbursement practices are uncertain and may adversely impact the commercialization of our products, if any. The efforts of governments and third party payors to contain or reduce the cost of health care will continue to affect the business and financial condition of drug companies. A number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system have been proposed in recent years. In addition, an increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States has and will continue to increase pressure on drug pricing. While we cannot predict whether legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted or what effect those proposals or managed care efforts may have on our business, the announcement and/or adoption of such proposals or efforts could have an adverse effect on our decisions to proceed with the development of our drug candidates and/or adversely effect our potential future profit margins and financial condition. Sales of prescription drugs depend significantly on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third party payors, such as government and private insurance plans. These third party payors frequently require that drug companies give them predetermined discounts from list prices, and 28 they are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. We expect that reimbursement pressures will continue in the future. If we succeed in bringing, through collaborative arrangements, one or more products to the market, these products may not be considered cost effective and reimbursement to the consumer may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive basis. In addition, third-party payors may discontinue or limit reimbursement for, or the use of, the types of drugs being developed by our company. For example, in the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) recently recommended that National Health Service doctors not prescribe three drugs—Aricept, Exelon and Reminyl—to new patients with mild to moderate dementia on the grounds that they are not sufficiently beneficial. These products are competitive with our drug candidate Phenserine. If similar action is taken by regulators in the European Community or the United States, the potential market for Phenserine will be significantly diminished. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products. The testing and marketing of drug products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with corporate collaborators. We currently carry clinical trial insurance but do not carry product liability insurance. We currently maintain clinical trial insurance in the amount of $5,000,000. When we decide that product liability insurance is necessary, we may not be able to obtain product liability insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. While under various circumstances we are entitled to be indemnified against losses by our corporate collaborators, indemnification may not be available or adequate should any claims arise. Generic Competition for Alzheimer’s drugs currently on the market could materially impact our future operations. There are competitive products for Phenserine already on the U.S. market. For instance, Aricept™ (donepezil hydrochloride), Reminyl™ (galantamine hydrobromide or “R113675”), and Exelon™ (rivastigmine) are presently being sold in the United States for the treatment of AD. The respective primary patents for these products are set to expire (taking into account patent term extensions under 35 U.S.C. § 156) as follows: Trademark Name US Patent Present PatentExpiration date Aricept™ 4,895,841 Nov. 25, 2010 Reminyl™ 4,663,318 Dec. 14, 2008 Exelon™ 4,948,807 Aug. 14, 2007 If we or one of our future prospective competitors who already has a drug on the market cannot successfully defend the patents protecting the products from challenge by a generic drug manufacturer, and a generic manufacturer were thus able to enter the market, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Currently at least Watson Pharmaceuticals and Ranbaxy, Inc. have obtained tentative approval from the FDA to market a generic version of rivastigmine. The owner of U.S. Patent 4,948,807 is in the early stages of enforcing its patent rights against the generic manufacturers. Other Risks We do not pay cash dividends. We have never paid dividends and do not presently intend to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. There is only a limited trading market for our common stock and it is possible that you may not be able to sell your shares easily. 29 There is currently only a limited trading market for our common stock. Our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “AXYX” with, until recently, very limited trading volume. We cannot assure you that a substantial trading market will be sustained for our common stock. The market price of our stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: • announcements of the results of clinical trials by us or our competitors, • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, • announcements of new products or new contracts by us or our competitors, • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results due to the level of drug development expenses and other factors, • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether our potential earnings or losses meet or exceed such estimates, • conditions and trends in the pharmaceutical and other industries including the successful market launch of competing products or unfavorable pricing conditions, • new accounting standards, • general economic, political and market conditions and other factors, and • the occurrence of any of the risks described in these “Risk Factors.” In the past two years, the price range of the bid quotations for our common stock has been between a high of $8.75 and a low of $0.99. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of the securities of companies in our industry, securities class action litigation, such as the lawsuits that have been filed against us, has often been instituted against those companies. Please see Item 3, Legal Proceedings, and the risk factor above entitled “We are a defendant in a class action lawsuit and a shareholder derivative lawsuit.” Declines in our stock price might harm our ability to issue equity under future potential financing arrangements. The price at which we issue shares in such transactions is generally based on the market price of our common stock and a decline in our stock price would result in our needing to issue a greater number of shares to raise a given amount of funds or acquire a given amount of goods or services. For this reason, a decline in our stock price might also result in increased ownership dilution to our stockholders. The future issuance of common stock upon exercise of warrants and stock options may depress the price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2006, we had outstanding options to purchase an aggregate of 5,320,619 shares of our common stock to our employees, officers, directors, and consultants under our existing option plans. We may issue options to purchase an additional 2,689,000 shares of our common stock under the option plans. In addition, we have granted options to purchase an aggregate of 343,000 shares of common stock outside of our stock option plans to consultants and others. These options were all granted prior to June 30, 2003. There are currently outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 7,107,116 shares of common stock. During the respective terms of the warrants and options granted or to be granted under our stock option plans or otherwise, the holders thereof are given an opportunity to benefit from a rise in the market price of the common stock, with a resultant dilution of the interests of existing stockholders. The existence of these warrants and options could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing while such securities are outstanding. The holders may be expected to exercise their rights to acquire common stock and sell at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain needed capital through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by these warrants and options. During the respective terms of the warrants and options granted or to be granted under our stock option plans or otherwise, the holders thereof are given an opportunity to benefit from a rise 30 in the market price of the common stock, with a resultant dilution of the interests of existing stockholders. The existence of these warrants and options could make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing while such securities are outstanding. The holders may be expected to exercise their rights to acquire common stock and sell at a time when we would, in all likelihood, be able to obtain needed through a new offering of securities on terms more favorable than those provided by these warrants and options. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On November 23, 2005, we received a comment letter from the Staff of the SEC’s Division of Corporate Finance with respect to our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. We responded to the Staff’s comments on December 6, 2005, received follow-up comments on the 2004 10-K from the Staff on January 16, 2006, and replied to such follow-up comments on January 27, 2006. On March 9, 2006, we received a second follow-up comment letter from the Staff with respect to our 2004 10-K. The remaining unresolved Staff comment asks us to clarify why our approach of consolidating OXIS as of December 31, 2004 and through February 28, 2005, was appropriate, or, alternatively, asks us to restate our 2004 financial statements to de-consolidate OXIS as of December 31, 2004. We believe that our approach of consolidating OXIS was appropriate and that a restatement is not necessary, and we are working with the Staff to clarify our position. Item 