RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report, including, but not limited to, our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and the trading prices of our securities could be adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below or other factors. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve uncertainties. Our actual results could differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements in this section are made only as of the filing date of this annual report. 1. Risks Related to our External Environment (1) Protracted global economic weakness and instability could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business is affected by general economic conditions and financial conditions in Japan and in foreign countries. While the world economy is now on the course of recovery, thanks to steady economic growth in the United States and certain other countries, protracted low growth rate of European economies, economic deterioration of resource-exporting countries due to the sharp decline of oil prices, and downward revision of China’s economic growth rate target are continuing to create uneven economic landscapes among different economies. In Japan, as the trend of weakening yen stabilizes, we are seeing companies improve their revenues, adopt business plans that incorporate more active capital expenditures, and raise base salaries of employees. 4 Table of Contents Despite our attempts to minimize our exposure to an unstable economic climate through, for example, improving risk management procedures, future instability in the global economy could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (2) We may lose market share or suffer reduced profitability as a result of competition based on pricing and other terms We compete on the basis of pricing, transaction structure, service quality and other terms. If our competitors seek to compete aggressively on the basis of pricing and other terms without regard to profitability, we may lose market share. Similarly, some of our competitors are larger than we are, can access capital at a lower cost than we can and are better able to maintain profits at reduced prices. If we try to match aggressive terms offered by competitors, our profitability may decline. (3) Negative rumors could affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and share price Our business depends upon the confidence of customers and market participants. Negative rumors about our activities, our industries or parties with whom we do business could harm our reputation and diminish confidence in our business. If we suffer reputational damage as a result of any rumors, we may lose customers or business opportunities, which could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations, and our share price could decline. (4) Our business may be adversely affected by economic fluctuations and political disturbances We conduct business operations in Japan as well as in the United States, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East and Europe. Our operations in the United States, Asia, Oceania and Europe are especially large. Shifts in commodity market prices and consumer demand, political instability or religious strife in these and other regions could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (5) Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events or any continuing effects caused by such events. Unpredictable events include man-made events, such as accidents, war, terrorism and insurgency, and natural events, such as earthquakes, storms, tsunamis, fires and outbreaks of infectious diseases. If any such event occurs, it may, among other things, cause unexpectedly large market price movements or an unexpected deterioration of economic conditions in a country or region. If such a sudden and unpredictable event occurs, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. (6) Dispositions of Shares may adversely affect market prices for our Shares As of June 23, 2015, five of our shareholders have filed large shareholder reports pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (“FIEA”) indicating at the time of its filing beneficial ownership, as that term is used in the FIEA, by the relevant shareholder of more than five percent of the total number of our outstanding Shares. Our shareholders may, for strategic, investment or other reasons, decide to reduce their shareholdings in ORIX. Dispositions of Shares, particularly dispositions of large numbers of Shares by major shareholders, may adversely affect market prices for our Shares. For information on major shareholders, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” A large portion of our Shares is held by investors outside Japan. Due to changes in the global economy or political conditions, investors outside Japan have at times reduced their investments in Japanese stocks. Further or renewed reduction in Japanese stock investment by such investors may adversely affect market prices for our Shares. 5 Table of Contents 2. Credit Risk (1) Our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses may be insufficient and our credit-related costs might increase We maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses. However, we cannot be sure that the allowance will be adequate to cover future credit losses. This allowance may be inadequate due to unexpected adverse changes in the Japanese and overseas economies in which we operate, or deterioration in the conditions of specific customers, industries or markets. We constantly strive to improve our portfolio management, however, we may be required to make additional provisions in the future depending on the economic trends. To enhance our collections from debtors, we may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against companies that are unable to fulfill their repayment obligations. We may also forgive loans or extend additional loans to such companies. Furthermore, if, due to adverse economic or market conditions, the value of underlying collateral and guarantees declines, our credit-related costs might increase. If we need to increase our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses, or if our credit-related costs increase to cover these changes or events, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 3. Business Risk (1) We are exposed to risks from our diverse and expanding range of products and services, acquisitions of companies and assets, and entry into joint ventures and alliances We continue to expand the range of our businesses in Japan and overseas, including through acquisitions of companies and businesses. Such expansion may expose us to new and complex risks that we may be unable to fully control or foresee, and, as a result, we may incur unexpected and potentially substantial costs or losses. In addition, we may not achieve targeted results if business opportunities do not develop or increase as expected or if competitive pressures undermine profitability. As part of our business expansion, we may acquire companies or businesses. If the results of operations of an acquired company or business are lower than what we expected at the time we made such acquisition, we could be required to make large write-downs of goodwill or other assets. From time to time we also enter into joint ventures and other alliances, and the success of these alliances is often dependent upon the financial and legal stability of our counterparties. If an alliance suffers a decline in financial condition or is subject to operational instability because of a change in applicable laws or regulations, we may be required to pay in additional capital, reduce our investment at a loss, or terminate the alliance. The contribution from our consolidated subsidiaries and equity method affiliates to our consolidated results of operations is an important component of our income. There can be no assurance that this contribution will be maintained. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will continue to identify attractive investment opportunities, or that investments will be as profitable as we originally expected. Our subsidiaries and affiliates have a wide range of business operations, including operations that are very different from our financial services business. If we fail to manage our investee companies effectively, we may experience financial losses as well as losses of future business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to sell or otherwise dispose of investments at times or prices we initially expected or at all. We may also need to provide financial support, including credit support or equity investments, to some investee companies if their financial condition deteriorates. If any such events occur, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents (2) We are exposed to risks related to asset and collateral value volatility We invest in ships, aircraft, real estate and other assets in Japan and overseas. The market values of our investments are volatile and may decline substantially in the future. Valuation losses of our assets are recorded based on the fair market values at the time of revaluation is conducted in accordance with applicable accounting principles. However, losses from the sale of these assets, including as a result of a sudden need for liquidity, may exceed the amount of recorded valuation losses. We estimate the residual value for certain operating leases at the time of contract. Our estimates of the residual value of equipment are based on current market values of used equipment and assumptions about when and to what extent the equipment will become obsolete; however, we may need to recognize additional valuation losses if our estimates differ from actual trends in equipment valuation and the secondhand market, and we may incur losses if we are unable to collect such estimated residual amounts. We acquire collateral including real estate properties when we provide installment loans. If the value of this collateral decreases as a result of changes in market conditions, the expected collectable amount from the relevant loans may decrease and the provision for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses may increase accordingly. In such event, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (3) Risks related to our other businesses We operate a wide range of diversified businesses in Japan and overseas, including financial services business. Entry into these businesses, and the results of operations following such entry, are accompanied by various uncertainties, and if any unanticipated risk does eventuate, this may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 4. Market Risk (1) Changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates could adversely affect our assets and our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business activities are subject to risks relating to changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates in Japan and overseas. Although we conduct asset-liability management (“ALM”), changes in the yield curve could adversely affect our results of operations. When fund procurement costs increase due to actual or perceived increases in market interest rates, financing lease terms and loan interest rates for new transactions may diverge from the trend in market interest rates. Changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the credit quality of our assets and our asset structure. For example, with respect to floating-rate loan assets, if market interest rates increase, the repayment burdens of our customers may also increase, which could adversely affect the financial condition of such customers and their ability to repay their obligations to us. Alternatively, a decline in interest rates could result in increased prepayments of loans and a decrease in our assets. We do not perfectly hedge all of the currency risks that arise from business operations in foreign currencies and overseas investments. As a result, a significant change in interest rates or currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents (2) Our use of derivatives may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations We use derivative instruments to reduce investment portfolio price fluctuations and manage interest rate and currency risk. However, we may not be able to successfully manage these risks through the use of derivatives. Furthermore our derivatives counterparties could fail to honor the terms of their contracts with us. We also may be unable to enter into derivative transactions if our credit ratings are downgraded. Our use of derivatives may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (3) Fluctuations in market prices of stocks and bonds may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations We hold investments in shares of private and public company stock, including shares of our equity method affiliates, and bonds, in Japan and overseas. The market values of our investment assets are volatile and may decline substantially in the future. A significant decline in the value of our investment assets could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. 5. Liquidity Risk (Risk Relating to Fund Procurement) (1) Our access to liquidity and capital may be restricted by economic conditions, instability in the financial markets or changes in our credit ratings Our primary sources of funds from financing activities include: borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, funding from capital markets (such as through issuances of bonds, medium-term notes or commercial paper (“CP”) and securitization of leases, loans receivables and other assets) and deposits. Such sources include a significant amount of short-term debt, such as CP and other short-term borrowings from various institutional lenders, and the portion of our long-term debt maturing in the current fiscal year. Some of our committed credit lines require us to comply with financial covenants. Adverse economic conditions or financial market instability, among other things, may adversely affect our ability to raise new funds or to renew existing funding sources, may subject us to increased funding costs or credit market volatility. If our access to liquidity is restricted, or if we are unable to obtain our required funding at acceptable costs, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. We obtain credit ratings from ratings agencies. Downgrades of our credit ratings could result in increases in our interest expenses and could have an adverse effect on our fund-raising ability by increasing costs of issuing CP and corporate debt securities, decreasing investor demand for our securities, increasing our bank borrowing costs or reducing the amount of bank credit available to us. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be significantly and adversely affected. 6. Legal Risk (1) A failure to maintain adequate controls to comply with regulations may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business and employees in Japan are subject to laws, as well as regulatory oversight by government authorities who implement those laws, relating to the various fields in which we operate. These include laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions, such as the Moneylending Business Act, the Installment Sales Act, the Insurance Business Act, the Banking Act, the Trust Business Act, the Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Act and the Building Standards Act, as well as general laws applicable to our business activities, such as the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. 8 Table of Contents Our businesses outside of Japan are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate and are subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions. For example, in addition to being subject to U.S. securities laws, we are also subject to the USA Patriot Act, which prohibits us from entering into any transactions with countries listed as state sponsors of terrorism, and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits us from offering bribes to foreign public servants. In addition, certain of our businesses are subject to industry-specific laws and regulations requiring, among other things, that each company conduct independent operations and maintain financial soundness and appropriateness of business activities. A total or partial suspension of operations or the revocation of one or more of our licenses may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. Our effort to implement thorough internal controls for compliance and legal risk management to prevent violations of applicable laws and regulations, may not be fully effective in preventing all violations. In addition, we engage in a wide range of businesses, and our expansion into new businesses through acquisitions may require us to revise or cause our current internal controls to cease to function adequately. In such cases, we may be subject to sanctions or penalties, which could apply to our officers or employees, if we fail to revise them properly or at all. Such events could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Regardless of whether we have violated any laws, if we become the subject of a governmental investigation, litigation or other proceeding in connection with our businesses, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (2) Enactment of, or changes in, laws, regulations and accounting standards may affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Enactment of, or changes in, laws and regulations may affect the way that we conduct our business, the products or services that we may offer, as well as our customers, borrowers, invested companies and funding sources. Such enactment or changes may cause our costs to increase, or if relating to accounting standards, may significantly affect how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations, even if our underlying business fundamentals remain the same. As a result of such enactment or changes, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 7. Operational Risk (1) Failures in our computer and other information systems could interfere with our operations and damage our business activities, financial condition and results of operations We use information systems for financial transactions, personal information management, business monitoring and processing and as part of our business decision-making and risk management activities. Some of these information systems may be outsourced. System shutdowns, malfunctions or failures, the mishandling of data or fraudulent acts by employees, vendors or other third parties, or infection by a computer virus, could have adverse effects on our operations, for example by causing delay in the receipt and payment of funds, the leak or destruction of confidential or personal information, the generation of errors in information used for business decision-making and risk management and the suspension of other services provided to our customers. In such event, our liquidity or the liquidity of customers who rely on us for financing or payment could be adversely affected. Our information system equipment could suffer damage from a large-scale natural disaster or from terrorism, such as hacking or other unauthorized access. If networks or information systems fail, we could experience interruption of business activity, delay in the receipt and payment of funds, or substantial costs for recovery of functionality. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents (2) We may not be able to hire or retain qualified personnel Our businesses require a considerable investment in human resources and the retention of qualified personnel in order to successfully compete in markets in Japan and overseas. If we cannot develop, hire or retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (3) If our internal control over financial reporting is insufficient, our share price, reputation and business activities may be adversely affected We have established and assessed our internal control over financial reporting in a manner intended to ensure compliance with the requirements of various laws and regulations. However, in future periods we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and such finding may cause us or our accountants to disclose that our internal control over financial reporting are ineffective, which could cause a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and cause our share price to fall. In any such case, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (4) Our risk management may not be effective We continuously seek to improve our risk management function. However, due to the rapid expansion of our business or significant changes in the business environment, our risk management may not be effective in some cases. As a result, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. (5) Other operational risks Our business entails many types of operational risks. Examples include inappropriate sales practices; inadequate handling of client and customer complaints; inadequate internal communication of necessary information; misconduct of officers, employees, agents, franchisees, trading associates, vendors or other third parties; errors in the settlement of accounts and conflicts with employees concerning labor and workplace management. Our management attempts to control operational risk and maintain it at a level that we believe is appropriate. However, operational risk is part of the business environment in which we operate, and despite our control measures, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected at any time due to this risk. Even if we do not incur direct pecuniary loss, our reputation may be adversely affected. 8. Risks Related to Holding or Trading our Shares and ADRs (1) Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from those under the laws of other jurisdictions Our Articles of Incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors and the Companies Act govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to matters such as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights are different from those that would apply if we were incorporated elsewhere. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law are different in some respects from shareholders’ rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside Japan. For a detailed discussion of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act and our Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation.” 10 Table of Contents (2) It may not be possible for investors to affect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors or executive officers, or to enforce against ORIX or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States ORIX is a joint stock corporation formed in Japan. Most or all of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Although some of ORIX’s subsidiaries have substantial assets in the United States, substantially all of ORIX’s assets and the assets of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to affect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors and executive officers or to enforce against ORIX or those persons, in U.S. courts, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. ORIX has been advised by its Japanese counsel that there is doubt, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, as to the enforceability in Japan of civil liabilities based solely on U.S. securities laws. A Japanese court may refuse to allow an original action based on U.S. securities laws. The United States and Japan do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil or commercial matters. Therefore, if you obtain a civil judgment by a U.S. court, you will not necessarily be able to enforce such judgment directly in Japan. (3) We expect to be a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors We believe that we will be a passive foreign investment company under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code for the year to which this report relates and for the foreseeable future because of the composition of our assets and the nature of our income. Assuming this is the case, U.S. investors in our Shares or ADSs will be subject to special rules of taxation in respect of certain dividends or gains on such Shares or ADSs, including the treatment of gains realized on the disposition of, and certain dividends received on, the Shares or ADSs as ordinary income earned pro rata over a U.S. investor’s holding period for such Shares or ADSs, taxed at the maximum rate applicable during the years in which such income is treated as earned, and subject to interest charges for a deemed deferral benefit. In addition, the favorable rates of tax applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate U.S. investors would not be available. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Taxation.” Investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the income tax consequences of investing in our Shares or ADSs. (4) If you hold fewer than 100 Shares, you will not have all the rights of shareholders with 100 or more Shares One “unit” of our Shares is comprised of one hundred Shares. Each unit of the Shares has one vote. A holder who owns Shares other than in multiples of one hundred will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting of fewer than one hundred Shares.) The Companies Act imposes significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote. Under the unit share system, a holder of Shares constituting less than a unit has the right to require ORIX to purchase its Shares and the right to require ORIX to sell it additional Shares to create a whole unit. However, a holder of ADRs is not permitted to withdraw underlying Shares representing less than one unit, which is equivalent to 20 ADSs, and, as a practical matter, is unable to require ORIX to purchase those underlying Shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any number of whole ADSs. (5) Foreign exchange fluctuations may affect the value of our securities and dividends Market prices for our ADSs may decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the dollar amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. 11 Table of Contents (6) A holder of ADRs has fewer rights than a shareholder and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including voting shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining a company’s accounting books and records and exercising dissenters’ rights, are available only to holders of record on a company’s register of shareholders. The Shares represented by our ADSs are registered in the name of a nominee of the depositary, through its custodian agent. Only the depositary is able to exercise those rights in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the Shares represented by our ADSs as instructed by the holders of the ADRs representing such ADSs and will pay to those holders the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, a holder of ADRs will not be able to directly bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and exercise dissenters’ rights through the depositary unless the depositary specifically undertakes to exercise those rights and is indemnified to its satisfaction by the holder for doing so. 