Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in our securities is subject to various risks, including risks and uncertainties inherent in our business. The following sets forth factors related to our business, operations, financial position or future financial performance or cash flows which could cause an investment in our securities to decline and result in a loss. Deterioration in the economic conditions in any of the industries in which our customers operate, or sustained uncertainty in financial markets, may have adverse impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. Economic conditions in a number of industries in which our customers operate, such as electric power generation and steel making, substantially deteriorated in recent years and reduced the demand for natural gas and coal. Although global industrial activity recovered in 2010 from 2009 levels, the continuation of the recovery, especially for industries in the United States and Europe, is uncertain. During recent years, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia also experienced unprecedented turmoil and upheaval. This was characterized by extreme volatility and declines in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. Although we cannot predict the impacts, renewed weakness in the economic conditions of any of the industries we serve or in the financial markets could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. For example: • demand for natural gas and electricity in the United States is impacted by industrial production, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our natural gas and steam coal business; • demand for metallurgical coal hinges on steel demand in the United States and globally, which if weakened would negatively impact the revenues, margins and profitability of our metallurgical coal business; • the tightening of credit or lack of credit availability to our customers could adversely affect our ability to collect our trade receivables and the amount of receivables eligible for sale pursuant to our accounts receivable securitization facility may decline; • our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital for our business including for exploration and/or development of our coal or gas reserves; and • our commodity hedging arrangements could become ineffective if our counterparties are unable to perform their obligations or seek bankruptcy protection. A significant or extended decline in the prices CONSOL Energy receives for our coal and gas could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our financial results are significantly affected by the prices we receive for our coal and gas. Extended or substantial price declines for coal would adversely affect our operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and expand operations. Prices of coal may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control such as overall domestic and global economic conditions; the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users; increased utilization by the steel industry of electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes to make steel which do not use furnace coke, an intermediate 41 Table of Contents product produced from metallurgical coal; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign government regulations; price and availability of alternative fuels; price of foreign imports; and weather conditions. Any adverse change in these factors could result in weaker demand and possibly lower prices for our coal production, which would reduce our revenues. Gas prices are closely linked to supply of natural gas and consumption patterns in the United States of the electric power generation industry and certain industrial and residential patterns where gas is the principal fuel. Natural gas prices are very volatile, and even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede growth. Changes in natural gas prices have a significant impact on the value of our reserves and on our cash flow. In the past we have used hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to market price volatility when we deemed it appropriate. If we choose not to engage in, or reduce our use of hedging arrangements in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements to a greater extent than we do. Prices for natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as: the domestic and foreign supply of natural gas; the price of foreign imports; overall domestic and global economic conditions; the consumption pattern of industrial consumers, electricity generators and residential users; weather conditions; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; proximity and capacity of gas pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. Many of these factors may be beyond our control. In particular, while demand for natural gas recovered to pre-recession levels, the U.S. natural gas industry continues to face concerns of oversupply due to the success of new shale plays and continued drilling in these plays, despite lower gas prices, to meet drilling commitments. Lower natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per unit basis, but may also limit our access to capital. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us in several ways. These include reduced cash flow, which would decrease funds available for capital expenditures employed to replace reserves or increase production. Also, our access to other sources of capital, such as equity or long-term debt markets, could be severely limited or unavailable. Additionally, lower natural gas prices may reduce the amount of natural gas that we can produce economically. This may result in our having to make substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if our estimates of development costs increase, production data factors change or our exploration results deteriorate, accounting rules may require us to write down, as a non-cash charge to earnings, the carrying value of our natural gas properties. We are required to perform impairment tests on our assets whenever events or changes in circumstances lead to a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows that would indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable or whenever management’s plans change with respect to those assets. We may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period taken. If coal customers do not extend existing contracts or do not enter into new long-term coal contracts, profitability of CONSOL Energy’s operations could be affected. During the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 89% of the coal CONSOL Energy produced was sold under long-term contracts (contracts with terms of one year or more). If a substantial portion of CONSOL Energy’s long-term contracts are modified or terminated or if force majeure is exercised, CONSOL Energy would be adversely affected if we are unable to replace the contracts or if new contracts are not at the same level of profitability. If existing customers do not honor current contract commitments, our revenue would be adversely affected. The profitability of our long-term coal supply contracts depends on a variety of factors, which vary from contract to contract and fluctuate during the contract term, including our production costs and other factors. Price changes, if any, provided in long-term supply contracts may not reflect our cost increases, and therefore, increases in our costs may reduce our profit margins. In addition, in periods of declining market prices, provisions in our long-term coal contracts for adjustment or renegotiation of prices and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility. As a result, CONSOL Energy may not be able to obtain long-term agreements at favorable prices (compared to either market conditions, as they may change from time to time, or our cost structure) and long-term contracts may not contribute to our profitability. 42 Table of Contents The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived over 25% of our total revenues from sales to our four largest coal and gas customers. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately 21 coal supply agreements with these customers that expire at various times from 2011 to 2030. We are currently discussing the extension of existing agreements or entering into new long-term agreements with some of these customers, but these negotiations may not be successful and these customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements. If any one of these four customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our financial condition and results of operations could suffer. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness declines or if they fail to honor their contracts with us. Our ability to receive payment for coal and gas sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Some power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly, our $200 million accounts receivable securitization program and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, if customers refuse to accept shipments of our coal for which they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenues will decrease and we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customer’s contractual obligations are honored. The availability and reliability of transportation facilities and fluctuations in transportation costs could affect the demand for our coal or impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Similarly, our gas business depends on gathering, processing and transportation facilities owned by others and the disruption of, capacity constraints in, or proximity to pipeline systems could limit sales of our gas. Coal producers depend upon rail, barge, trucking, overland conveyor and other systems to provide access to markets. Disruption of transportation services because of weather-related problems, strikes, lock-outs, break-downs of locks and dams or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to customers and adversely affect our profitability. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the delivered cost of coal and, as a result, the cost of delivery is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make our coal less competitive. We gather, process and transport our gas to market by utilizing pipelines and facilities owned by others. If pipelines and facilities do not exist near our producing wells, if pipeline or facility capacity is limited or if pipeline or facility capacity is unexpectedly disrupted, our gas sales could be limited, reducing our profitability. If we cannot access processing pipeline transportation facilities, we may have to reduce our production of gas or vent our produced gas to the atmosphere because we do not have facilities to store excess inventory. If our sales of gas are reduced because of transportation or processing constraints, our revenues will be reduced, and our unit costs will also increase. If pipeline quality tariffs change, we might be required to install additional processing equipment which could increase our costs. The pipeline could also curtail our flows until the gas delivered to their pipeline is in compliance. Competition within the coal and gas industries may adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Increased competition or a loss of our competitive position could adversely affect our sales of, or our prices for, our coal and gas products, which could impair our profitability. CONSOL Energy competes with coal producers in various regions of the United States and with some foreign coal producers for domestic sales primarily to electric power generators. CONSOL Energy also competes with both domestic and foreign coal producers for sales in international markets. Demand for our coal by our principal customers is affected by the delivered price of competing coals, other fuel supplies and alternative 43 Table of Contents generating sources, including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric and wind power. CONSOL Energy sells coal to foreign electricity generators and to the more specialized metallurgical coal market, both of which are significantly affected by international demand and competition. Increases in coal prices could encourage existing producers to expand capacity or could encourage new producers to enter the market. If overcapacity results, prices could fall or we may not be able to sell our coal, which would reduce revenue. The gas industry is intensely competitive with companies from various regions of the United States. We compete with these companies and we may compete with foreign companies for domestic sales. Many of the companies we compete with are larger and have greater financial, technological, human and other resources. If we are unable to compete, our company, our operating results and financial position may be adversely affected. In addition, larger companies may be able to pay more to acquire new gas properties for future exploration, limiting our ability to replace gas we produce or to grow our production. Our ability to acquire additional properties and to discover new gas resources also depends on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate these transactions in a highly competitive environment. We could be negatively affected if we fail to negotiate a new agreement with the United Mine Workers of America, if we enter into a new agreement which significantly increases our labor costs or if we otherwise fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2010, we had 8,630 employees. Approximately 34% of these employees are represented by the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) and union operations generated approximately 49% of our U.S. coal production during the year ended December 31, 2010. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UMWA expires on December 31, 2011. If we do not negotiate a new collective bargaining agreement with the UMWA, we may incur prolonged strikes and other work stoppages at our union mines. We may also have significant reductions in productivity which can materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations by significantly reducing our production and sale of coal. If we enter into a new agreement with the UMWA which significantly increases our labor costs relative to other coal companies, our ability to compete with other coal companies may be materially adversely affected. Satisfactory relations with our employees and organized labor is important to our success. If we do not maintain satisfactory labor relations, we may incur strikes, other work stoppages, or have reduced productivity. The characteristics of coal may make it costly for electric power generators and other coal users to comply with various environmental standards regarding the emissions of impurities released when coal is burned which could cause utilities to replace coal-fired power plants with alternative fuels. In addition, various incentives have been proposed to encourage the generation of electricity from renewable energy sources. A reduction in the use of coal for electric power generation could decrease the volume of our coal sales and adversely affect our results of operation. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Complying with regulations on the emissions of impurities can be costly for electric power generators. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users will need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase), or switch to other fuels. Each option has limitations. Lower sulfur coal may be more costly to purchase on an energy basis than higher sulfur coal depending on mining and transportation costs. The cost of installing scrubbers is significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modification of existing plants. Because higher sulfur coal currently accounts for a significant portion of our sales, the extent to which electric power generators switch to alternative fuel could materially affect us. Proposed reductions in emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, or particulate matter may require the installation of additional costly control technology or the implementation of other measures, including trading of 44 Table of Contents emission allowances and switching to alternative fuels. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) continues to require reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions in a number of eastern states and the District of Columbia and will require reduction of particulate matter emissions over the next several years for areas that do not meet air quality standards for fine particulates. Additional reductions in permissible emission levels of impurities by coal-fired plants will likely make it more costly to operate coal-fired electric power plants and make coal a less attractive fuel alternative for electric power generation in the future. Apart from actual and potential regulation of emissions from coal-fired plants, state and federal mandates for increased use of electricity from renewable energy sources could have an impact on the market for our coal. Several states have enacted legislative mandates requiring electricity suppliers to use renewable energy sources to generate a certain percentage of power. There have been numerous proposals to establish a similar uniform, national standard although none of these proposals have been enacted to date. Possible advances in technologies and incentives, such as tax credits, to enhance the economics of renewable energy sources could make these sources more competitive with coal. Any reductions in the amount of coal consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of current or new standards for the emission of impurities or incentives to switch to alternative fuels or renewable energy sources could reduce the demand for our coal, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions as well as uncertainty concerning such regulation could adversely impact the market for coal and natural gas and the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may increase our operating costs and reduce the value of our coal and gas assets. While climate change legislation in the U.S. is unlikely in the next several years, the issue of global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs), such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal and gas we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere by coal and gas end users, such as coal-fired electric power generation plants. Numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of GHGs. Several states have already adopted measures requiring reduction of GHGs within state boundaries. Internationally, the Kyoto Protocol, which set binding emission targets for developed countries (including the United States but has not been ratified by the United States) expires in 2012 and negotiations are underway for a new protocol. Regulation of GHGs could occur in the United States pursuant to EPA regulation under the Clean Air Act. On December 23, 2010 the EPA announced that it will propose standards for GHG emissions for power plants in July 2011 and issue final standards in May 2012. Apart from governmental regulation, on February 4, 2008, three of Wall Street’s largest investment banks announced that they had adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of electric power generation plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal-fired plants. If comprehensive regulation focusing on GHGs emission reductions is adopted for the United States by the EPA or in other countries where we sell coal, or if utilities were to have difficulty obtaining financing in connection with coal-fired plants, it may make it more costly to operate fossil fuel fired (especially coal-fired) electric power generation plants and make fossil fuels less attractive for electric utility power plants in the future. Depending on the nature of the regulation or legislation, natural gas-fueled power generation could become more economically attractive than coal-fueled power generation, substantially increasing the demand for natural gas. Apart from actual regulation, uncertainty over the regulation of GHG emissions may inhibit utilities from investing in the building of new coal-fired plants to replace older plants or investing in the upgrading of existing coal-fired plants. Any reduction in the amount of coal or possibly natural gas consumed by domestic electric power generators as a result of actual or potential regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could decrease demand for our fossil fuels, thereby reducing our revenues and materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. We or our customers may also have to invest in carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies in order to burn coal or natural gas and comply with future GHG emission standards. 45 Table of Contents In addition, coalbed methane must be expelled from our underground coal mines for mining safety reasons. Coalbed methane enhances the GHG effect to a greater degree than carbon dioxide. Our gas operations capture coalbed methane from our underground coal mines, although some coalbed methane is vented into the atmosphere when the coal is mined. If regulation of GHG emissions does not exempt the release of coalbed methane, we may have to further reduce our methane emissions, pay higher taxes, incur costs to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations as they now exist at our underground coal mines or perhaps curtail coal production. The amount of coalbed methane we capture is reported, on a voluntarily basis, to the U.S. Department of Energy. We have recorded the amounts we have captured since the early 1990’s. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad. We compete in international markets against coal produced in other countries. Coal is sold internationally in U.S. dollars. As a result, mining costs in competing producing countries may be reduced in U.S. dollar terms based on currency exchange rates, providing an advantage to foreign coal producers. Currency fluctuations among countries purchasing and selling coal could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal in international markets. Our coal mining and gas operations are subject to operating risks, which could increase our operating expenses and decrease our production levels which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our coal and gas operations are also subject to hazards and any losses or liabilities we suffer from hazards which occur in our operations may not be fully covered by our insurance policies. Our coal mining operations are predominantly underground mines. These mines are subject to a number of operating risks that could disrupt operations, decrease production and increase the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time thereby adversely affecting our operating results. In addition, if coal production declines, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to deliver under our long-term coal contracts. CONSOL Energy’s inability to satisfy contractual obligations could result in our customers initiating claims against us. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our coal operations include: • variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal; • amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam and other geological conditions that could affect the stability of the roof and the side walls of the mine; • equipment failures or repairs; • fires, explosions or other accidents; • weather conditions; and • security breaches or terroristic acts. Our exploration for and production of natural gas also involves numerous operating risks. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells for coalbed methane (CBM) or other gas is often uncertain, and a number of factors can delay or prevent drilling operations, decrease production and/or increase the cost of our gas operations at particular sites for varying lengths of time thereby adversely affecting our operating results. The operating risks that may have a significant impact on our gas operations include: • unexpected drilling conditions; • title problems; • pressure or irregularities in geologic formations; • equipment failures or repairs; • fires, explosions or other accidents; 46 Table of Contents • adverse weather conditions; • reductions in natural gas prices; • security breaches or terroristic acts; • pipeline ruptures; and • unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs, other field services and equipment. Although we maintain insurance for a number of hazards, we may not be insured or fully insured against the losses or liabilities that could arise from a significant accident in our coal or gas operations. Our focus on new development projects in our operating areas and other unexplored areas increases the risks inherent in our gas and oil activities. We hold substantial acreage on which there are no proved gas reserves in Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, West Virginia and Tennessee. Over time, we plan to drill a number of wells in our undeveloped acreage. These exploration, drilling and production activities will be subject to many risks, including the risk that CBM or other natural gas is not present in sufficient quantities in the coal seam or target strata, or that sufficient permeability does not exist for the gas to be produced economically. Drilling for CBM, other natural gas and oil may involve unprofitable efforts, not only from dry wells but also from wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net gas reserves to return a profit after deducting drilling, operating and other costs. We cannot be certain that the wells we drill in these new areas will be productive or that we will recover all or any portion of our investments. A decrease in the availability or increase in the costs of commodities, key services, or capital equipment used in mining or gas operations, such as steel, liquid fuels and rubber products we use in mining operations or drilling rigs we use to drill gas wells in our gas operations, could impact our cost of production and decrease our anticipated profitability. Coal mines consume large quantities of key services, capital equipment and commodities including steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for these services and products are strongly impacted by the global market. A rapid or significant increase in the costs of commodities, key services or capital equipment we use in our operations could impact our mining operations costs because we may have a limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and, in some cases, may not have a ready substitute. In gas operations we contract with third parties for well services, related equipment, and qualified experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations. The demand for these services in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices causing periodic shortages. These shortages may lead to escalating prices, the possibility of poor services, inefficient drilling operations and personnel injuries. Such pressures will likely increase the actual cost of services, extend the time to secure such services and add costs for damages due to accidents sustained from the over use of equipment and inexperienced personnel. Higher oil and natural gas prices generally stimulate increased demand and result in increased prices for drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services. In addition, the costs and delivery times of equipment and supplies are substantially greater in periods of peak demand. Accordingly, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain necessary drilling equipment and supplies in a timely manner or on satisfactory terms, and we may experience shortages of, or increases in the costs of, drilling equipment, crews and associated supplies, equipment and services in the future. Any such delays and price increases could adversely affect our ability to pursue our drilling program and our results of operations. We attempt to mitigate the risks involved with increased industrial activity by entering into “take or pay” contracts with well service providers which commit them to provide services to us at specified levels and commit us to pay for services at specified levels even if we do not use those services. However, these contracts expose us 47 Table of Contents to economic risk. For example, if the price of natural gas declines and it is not economical to drill and produce additional natural gas, we may have to pay for services that we did not use. This would decrease our cash flow and raise our costs of production. For mining and drilling operations, CONSOL Energy must obtain, maintain, and renew governmental permits and approvals which if we cannot obtain in a timely fashion would reduce our production, cash flow and results of operations. Most coal producers in the eastern U.S. are being impacted by government regulations and enforcement to a much greater extent than a few years ago, particularly in light of the renewed focus by environmental agencies and the government generally on the mining industry, including more stringent enforcement of the laws that regulate mining. The pace with which the government issues permits needed for new operations and for on-going operations to continue mining has negatively impacted expected production, especially in Central Appalachia. Environmental groups in Southern West Virginia and Kentucky have challenged state and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers permits for mountaintop mining on various grounds. The most recent challenges have focused on the adequacy of the Corps of Engineers analysis of impacts to streams and the adequacy of mitigation plans to compensate for stream impacts resulting from valley fill permits required for mountaintop mining. In 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of West Virginia found other operators’ permits for mining in these areas to be deficient. In February 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed that decision, finding that the permits were adequate. However, since that reversal, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) began to more critically review valley fill permits and permits for all types of coal mining operations, and has been recommending that a number of permits be denied because of alleged concerns by the EPA of potential impacts to water quality in streams below mining operations, with cumulative impacts of mining on watersheds. The EPA’s objections and an enhanced review process that is being implemented under a federal multi-agency memorandum of understanding have effectively held up the issuance of permits for all types of mining operations that require Clean Water Act Section 402 discharge permits and Section 404 dredge and fill permits, including surface facilities for underground mines, without any indication as to when normal permitting will resume. CONSOL Energy’s surface and underground operations have been impacted to a limited extent to date, but future permits will likely be delayed by the EPA’s current position, which will likely adversely impact our surface operations. In addition, the length of time needed to bring a new mine into production has increased by several years because of the increased time required to obtain necessary permits. These delays or denials of mining permits could reduce our production, cash flow and results of operations. Existing and future government laws, regulations and other legal requirements relating to protection of the environment, health and safety matters and others that govern our business have increased our costs of doing business for both coal and gas, and may restrict both our coal and gas operations. We are subject to laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities relating to protection of the environment and health and safety matters. These include those legal requirements that govern discharges of substances into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, groundwater quality and availability, plant and wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining or drilling properties after mining or drilling is completed, the installation of various safety equipment in our mines, control of surface subsidence from underground mining and work practices related to employee health and safety. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations and competitive position. For example, we have agreed to commence operation by May 30, 2013 of a new advanced waste water treatment plant to treat the discharge of mine water from our Blacksville #2, Loveridge and Robinson Run mines. This treatment plant will cost an estimated $110 to $120 million to construct. In addition, we could incur substantial costs as a result of violations under environmental and health and safety laws. Any additional laws, regulations and other legal requirements enacted or adopted by federal, state and local, as well as foreign authorities or new interpretations of existing legal requirements by regulatory bodies relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters could further affect our costs of operations and competitive position. 48 Table of Contents For example, the federal Clean Water Act and corresponding state laws affect coal mining and gas operations by imposing restrictions on discharges into regulated surface waters. Permits requiring regular monitoring and compliance with effluent limitations and reporting requirements govern the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters. The Clean Water Act and corresponding state laws (including those relating to protection of “impaired waters” (not meeting state water quality standards) through the use of effluent limitations established so that all discharges to the “impaired” stream do not exceed Total Maximum Daily Load (“TMDL”) levels of the pollutants causing the impairment; anti-degradation regulations which protect state designated “high quality/exceptional use” streams by restricting or prohibiting “discharges” which result in degradation; and requirements to treat discharges from coal mining properties for non-traditional pollutants requiring expensive treatment technologies, such as total dissolved solids, chlorides and selenium; and “protecting” streams, wetlands, other regulated water sources and associated riparian lands from the surface impacts of underground mining) may cause CONSOL Energy to incur additional costs that could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows or may prevent us from being able to mine portions of our reserves. The Clean Water Act is being used by opponents of mountain top removal mining as a means to challenge permits. Also, beginning in early 2009, the EPA has relied upon the Clean Water Act to become more actively involved in the permitting of mountain top removal mining operations and other coal mining operations requiring permits to place fill material in streams. In addition, CONSOL Energy incurs and will continue to incur costs associated with the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (Superfund) and similar state statutes and has been named as a potentially responsible party at Superfund sites in the past. Additionally, the gas industry is subject to extensive legislation and regulation, which is under constant review for amendment or expansion. Any changes may affect, among other things, the pricing or marketing of gas production. State and local authorities regulate various aspects of gas drilling and production activities, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, market sharing and well site restoration. If we fail to comply with statutes and regulations, we may be subject to penalties, which would decrease our profitability. Our mines are subject to stringent federal and state safety regulations that increase our cost of doing business at active operations and may place restrictions on our methods of operation. In addition, government inspectors under certain circumstances, have the ability to order our operations to be shut down based on safety considerations. A mine could be shut down for an extended period of time if a disaster were to occur at it. Stringent health and safety standards were imposed by federal legislation when the Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 was adopted. The Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977 expanded the enforcement of safety and health standards of the Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969 and imposed safety and health standards on all (non-coal as well as coal) mining operations. Regulations are comprehensive and affect numerous aspects of mining operations, including training of mine personnel, mining procedures, the equipment used in mine emergency procedures, mine plans and other matters. The additional requirements of the Mine Improvement and New Emergency Response Act of 2006 (the Miner Act) and implementing federal regulations include, among other things, expanded emergency response plans, providing additional quantities of breathable air for emergencies, installation of refuge chambers in underground coal mines, installation of two-way communications and tracking systems for underground coal mines, new standards for sealing mined out areas of underground coal mines, more available mine rescue teams and enhanced training for emergencies. Most states in which CONSOL Energy operates have programs for mine safety and health regulation and enforcement. We believe that the combination of federal and state safety and health regulations in the coal mining industry is, perhaps, the most comprehensive system for protection of employee safety and health affecting any industry. Most aspects of mine operations, particularly underground mine operations, are subject to extensive regulation. The various requirements mandated by law or regulation can place restrictions on our methods of operations, creating a significant effect on operating costs and productivity. In addition, government inspectors under certain 49 Table of Contents circumstances, have the ability to order our operation to be shut down based on safety considerations. If a disaster were to occur at one of our mines, it could be shutdown for an extended period of time and our reputation with our customers could be materially damaged. In West Virginia there are areas where drainage from coal mining operations contains concentrations of selenium that without treatment would result in violations of state water quality standards that are set to protect fish and other aquatic life. CONSOL Energy has two operations with selenium discharges. CONSOL Energy and other coal companies are working to expeditiously develop cost effective means to remove selenium from mine water. If such technology is not developed promptly, the only available effective treatment technologies are expensive to construct and operate which will increase coal production costs. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials and generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes from time to time. Drainage flowing from or caused by mining activities can be acidic with elevated levels of dissolved metals, a condition referred to as “acid mine drainage.” We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or for the entire share. We maintain extensive coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at a number of our mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Our coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments are designed, constructed, and inspected by our company and by regulatory authorities according to stringent environmental and safety standards. Structural failure of a slurry impoundment or coal refuse area could result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. These and other similar unforeseen impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could adversely affect us. CONSOL Energy has reclamation, mine closing and gas well plugging obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as most aspects of deep mining. Also, state laws require us to plug gas wells and reclaim well sites after the useful life of our gas wells has ended. CONSOL Energy accrues for the costs of current mine disturbance, gas well plugging and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Estimates of our total reclamation, mine-closing liabilities and gas well plugging, which are based upon permit requirements and our experience, were approximately $671 million at December 31, 2010. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future closure costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. 50 Table of Contents CONSOL Energy faces uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal and gas reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs and decreased profitability. There are uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and values of economically recoverable coal reserves, including many factors beyond our control. As a result, estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves are by their nature uncertain. Information about our reserves consists of estimates based on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff. Some of the factors and assumptions which impact economically recoverable coal reserve estimates include: • geological conditions; • historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; • the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; • assumptions governing future prices; and • future operating costs, including the cost of materials. Similarly, natural gas reserves require subjective estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas and assumptions concerning natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs. As a result, estimated quantities of proved gas reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may be incorrect. Over time, material changes to reserve estimates may be made, taking into account the results of actual drilling, testing and production. Also, we make certain assumptions regarding natural gas prices, production levels, and operating and development costs that may prove incorrect. Any significant variance from these assumptions to actual figures could greatly affect our estimates of our gas reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas attributable to any particular group of properties, the classifications of gas reserves based on risk of recovery, and estimates of the future net cash flows. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of gas we ultimately recover being different from reserve estimates. The present value of future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not necessarily the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas reserves. We base the estimated discounted future net cash flows from our proved gas reserves on historical average prices and costs. However, actual future net cash flows from our gas and oil properties also will be affected by factors such as: • geological conditions; • changes in governmental regulations and taxation; • the amount and timing of actual production; • future operating costs; and • capital costs of drilling new wells. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating discounted future net cash flows may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with us or the natural gas and oil industry in general. In addition, if natural gas prices decline by $0.10 per thousand cubic feet, then the pre-tax present value using a 10% discount rate of our proved gas reserves as of December 31, 2010 would decrease from $2.8 billion to $2.7 billion. The standardized Generally Accepted Accounting Principle measure associated with this decline of $0.10 per thousand cubic feet, would be approximately $1.6 billion. 51 Table of Contents Each of the factors which impacts reserve estimation may in fact vary considerably from the assumptions used in estimating the reserves. For these reasons, estimates of coal and gas reserves may vary substantially. Actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our coal and gas reserves will likely vary from estimates, and these variances may be material. As a result, our estimates may not accurately reflect our actual coal and gas reserves. We may incur additional costs and delays to produce coal and gas because we have to acquire additional property rights to perfect our title to coal or gas rights. While chain of title for our coal estate generally has been established, there may be defects in it that we do not realize until we have committed to developing those properties or coal reserves. As such, the title to the coal estate that we intend to mine may contain defects. In order to conduct our mining operations on properties where these defects exist, we may incur unanticipated costs perfecting title. Some of the gas rights we believe we control are in areas where we have not yet done any exploratory or production drilling. Many of these properties were acquired primarily for the coal rights, and, in many cases were acquired years ago. While chain of title work for the coal estate was generally established, in some cases, the gas estate title work is less developed. Our practice is to perform a thorough title examination of the gas estate before we commence drilling activities and to acquire any additional rights needed to perfect our ownership of the gas estate for development and production purposes. We may incur substantial costs to acquire these additional property rights and the acquisition of the necessary rights may not be feasible in some cases. Our inability to obtain these rights may adversely impact our ability to develop those properties. Some states permit us to produce the gas without perfected ownership under an administrative process known as “pooling,” which require us to give notice to all potential claimants and pay royalties into escrow until the undetermined rights are resolved. As a result, we may have to pay royalties to produce gas on acreage that we control and these costs may be material. Further, the pooling process is time-consuming and may delay our drilling program in the affected areas. Our subsidiaries, primarily Fairmont Supply Company, is a co-defendant in various asbestos litigation cases which could result in making payments in the future that are material. One of our subsidiaries, Fairmont Supply Company (Fairmont), which distributes industrial supplies, currently is named as a defendant in approximately 22,500 asbestos claims in state courts in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, Texas and Illinois. Because a very small percentage of products manufactured by third parties and supplied by Fairmont in the past may have contained asbestos and many of the pending claims are part of mass complaints filed by hundreds of plaintiffs against a hundred or more defendants, it has been difficult for Fairmont to determine how many of the cases actually involve valid claims or plaintiffs who were actually exposed to asbestos-containing products supplied by Fairmont. In addition, while Fairmont may be entitled to indemnity or contribution in certain jurisdictions from manufacturers of identified products, the availability of such indemnity or contribution is unclear at this time and, in recent years, some of the manufacturers named as defendants in these actions have sought protection from these claims under bankruptcy laws. Fairmont has no insurance coverage with respect to these asbestos cases. For the year ended December 31, 2010, payments by Fairmont with respect to asbestos cases have not been material. Other of our subsidiaries may also have asbestos claims against them. Our current estimates related to these asbestos claims, individually and in the aggregate, are immaterial to the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of CONSOL Energy. However, it is reasonably possible that payments in the future with respect to pending or future asbestos cases may be material to the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of CONSOL Energy. CONSOL Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We are party to a number of legal proceedings in the normal course of business activities. Defending these actions, especially purported class actions, can be costly, and can distract management. For example, we are a 52 Table of Contents defendant in four pending purported class action lawsuits dealing with such diverse matters as the propriety of our acquisition of the noncontrolling interest of CNX Gas, our right to natural gas production in some areas, and asserting that we are responsible for Hurricane Katrina and the damage it caused. There is the potential that the costs of defending litigation in an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. See Note 24—Commitments and Contingent Liabilities in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion of pending legal proceedings. CONSOL Energy has obligations for long-term employee benefits for which we accrue based upon assumptions which, if inaccurate, could result in CONSOL Energy being required to expense greater amounts than anticipated. CONSOL Energy provides various long-term employee benefits to inactive and retired employees. We accrue amounts for these obligations. At December 31, 2010, the current and non-current portions of these obligations included: • postretirement medical and life insurance ($3.3 billion); • coal workers’ black lung benefits ($184.5 million); • salaried retirement benefits ($163.4 million); and • workers’ compensation ($174.5 million). However, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. Salary retirement benefits are funded in accordance with ERISA regulations. The other obligations are un-funded. In addition, the federal government and several states in which we operate consider changes in workers’ compensation and black lung laws from time to time. Such changes, if enacted, could increase our benefit expense. Due to our participation in a multi-employer pension plan, we have exposure under that plan that extends beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. Certain of our subsidiaries are obligated to contribute to a multi-employer defined benefit pension plan for United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) retirees. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from such pension plan, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such pension plan’s unfunded vested benefits, as determined by the plan’s actuary. Based on the information available from the plan’s administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability represented by the pension plan’s unfunded vested benefits, in the case of our withdrawal from the pension plan or in the case of the termination of the pension plan, could be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from such pension plan and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy their obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for an increase in our proportionate share of the pension plan’s unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal from the pension plan or its termination. The minimum funding level requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (Pension Act) applicable to single employer and multi-employer defined benefit pension plans, coupled with significant investment asset losses suffered by such pension plans during the recent decline in equity markets and the current volatile economic environment, have exposed CONSOL Energy to having to make additional cash contributions to fund the pension benefit plans which we sponsor and the multi-employer pension benefit plan in which we participate. Certain subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy participate in a defined benefit multi-employer pension plan (1974 Pension Trust) negotiated with the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) and contained in the National 53 Table of Contents Bituminous Coal Wage Agreement (NBCWA). The 1974 Pension Trust is overseen by a board of trustees, consisting of two union-appointed trustees and two employer-appointed trustees. The trustees’ responsibilities include selection of the plan’s investment policy, asset allocation, individual investment of plan assets and the administration of the plan. The benefits provided by the 1974 Pension Trust to the participating employees are determined based on age and years of service at retirement. The current 2007 NBCWA will expire on December 31, 2011 and calls for contribution amounts to be paid into the multi-employer 1974 Pension Trust based principally on hours worked by UMWA-represented employees. The contribution rates called for by the current NBCWA are: $3.50 per hour worked in 2008; $4.25 per hour worked in 2009, $5.00 per hour worked in 2010 and $5.50 per hour worked in 2011. For the plan year ended June 30, 2010, approximately 18% of retirees and surviving spouses receiving benefits from the 1974 Pension Trust last worked at signatory subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy. As of June 30, 2010, the most recent date for which information is available, the 1974 Pension Trust was underfunded. This determination was made in accordance with Employer Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) calculations, with a total actuarial asset value of $5.1 billion and a total actuarial accrued liability of $6.8 billion, or a funded percentage of approximately 76%. On October 7, 2010, certain subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy received notice from the trustees of the 1974 Pension Trust stating that the plan is considered to be “seriously endangered” for the plan year beginning July 1, 2010. Under the Pension Protection Act (Pension Act), a funded percentage of 80% should be maintained for this multi-employer pension plan, and if the plan is determined to have a funded percentage of less than 80% it will be deemed to be “endangered” or “seriously endangered”, and if less than 65%, it will be deemed to be in “critical” status. The funded percentage certified by the actuary for the 1974 Pension Trust was determined to be approximately 76% under the Pension Act. Certain subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy face risks and uncertainties by participating in the 1974 Pension Trust. All assets contributed to the plan are pooled and available to provide benefits for all participants and beneficiaries. As a result, contributions made by signatory subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy benefit employees of other employers. If the 1974 Pension Trust fails to meet ERISA’s minimum funding requirements or fails to develop and adopt a required rehabilitation plan, a nondeductible excise tax of five percent of the accumulated funding deficiency may be imposed on an employer’s contribution to this multi-employer pension plan. As a result of the 1974 Pension Trust’s “seriously endangered” status, steps must be taken under the Pension Act to improve the funded status of the plan. These steps could result in requiring certain signatory subsidiaries of CONSOL Energy to make additional contributions pursuant to a funding improvement plan adopted and implemented in accordance with the Pension Act and, therefore, could have a material impact on our operating results. See Note 17—Other Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further discussion. If lump sum payments made to retiring salaried employees pursuant to CONSOL Energy’s defined benefit pension plan exceed the total of the service cost and the interest cost in a plan year, CONSOL Energy would need to make an adjustment to operating results equaling the unrecognized actuarial gain or loss resulting from each individual who received a lump sum payment in that year, which may result in an adjustment that could reduce operating results. CONSOL Energy’s defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees allows such employees to receive a lump-sum distribution for benefits earned up through December 31, 2005 in lieu of annual payments when they retire from CONSOL Energy. Employers’ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans for Terminations Benefits requires that if the lump-sum distributions made for a plan year exceed the total of the service cost and interest cost for the plan year, CONSOL Energy would need to recognize for that year’s results of operations an adjustment equaling the unrecognized actuarial gain or loss resulting from each individual who received a lump sum in that year. This type of adjustment may result in a reduction in operating results. 54 Table of Contents Acquisitions that we have completed, acquisitions that we may undertake in the future, as well as expanding existing company mines, involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits and to the extent we engage in divestitures, the timing and proceeds thereof may not provide anticipated benefits. On April 30, 2010 we completed the Dominion Acquisition for approximately $3.5 billion. We could encounter difficulties with the Dominion Acquisition, such as the need to revisit assumptions about gas reserves, future gas production, revenues, capital expenditures and operating costs, including realizing anticipated synergies, the loss of key employees or commercial relationships or the need to address unanticipated liabilities. If we cannot successfully integrate our business, we may fail to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition. We also continually seek to grow our business by adding and developing coal and gas reserves through acquisitions and by expanding the production at existing mines and existing gas operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties we acquire, our profitability may decline and we could experience an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Mine expansion, gas operation expansion and acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of expansion and acquisition opportunities; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an expansion or an acquisition opportunity; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the expansion of the acquisition opportunity; and • we may have to assume cleanup or reclamation obligations or other unanticipated liabilities in connection with these acquisitions. From time to time part of our business and financing plans include the divestiture of certain assets. However, we do not control the timing or the terms associated with them. Divestitures may not provide anticipated benefits or anticipated proceeds and may not occur when forecasted. CONSOL Energy’s rights plan may have anti-takeover effects that may discourage a change of control even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. On December 19, 2003, CONSOL Energy adopted a rights plan which, in certain circumstances, including a person or group acquiring, or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 15% of the outstanding shares of CONSOL Energy common stock, would entitle each right holder to receive, upon exercise of the right, shares of CONSOL Energy common stock having a value equal to twice the right exercise price. For example, at an exercise price of $80 per right, each right not otherwise voided would entitle its holders to purchase $160 worth of shares of CONSOL Energy common stock for $80. Assuming that shares of CONSOL Energy common stock had a per share value of $16 at such time, the holder of each right would be entitled to purchase ten shares of CONSOL Energy common stock for $80, or a price of $8 per share, one half of its then market price. This and other provisions of CONSOL Energy’s rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire CONSOL Energy, which could hinder stockholders’ ability to receive a premium for CONSOL Energy stock over the prevailing market prices. Our financial performance could be adversely affected by our debt. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was approximately $3.695 billion of which approximately $155 million was under our senior secured credit facility, $129 million was under CNX Gas secured revolving 55 Table of Contents credit facility, $200 million was under the securitization facility, $250 million was under our 7.875% senior secured notes due March 2012, $1.5 billion was under our 8.00% senior unsecured notes due April 2017, $1.25 billion was under our 8.25% senior unsecured notes due April 2020, $103 million was under our Baltimore Port Facility 5.75% revenue bonds due September 2025, $66 million of capitalized leases due through 2021, and $42 million of miscellaneous debt. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development of our coal and gas reserves or other general corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal and gas industries; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures governing our 7.875% senior secured notes, and our 8.00% and 8.25% senior unsecured notes limit the incurrence of additional indebtedness unless specified tests or exceptions are met. In addition, our senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our 8.00% and 8.25% senior unsecured notes subject us to financial and/or other restrictive covenants. Under our senior secured credit agreement, we must comply with certain financial covenants on a quarterly basis including a minimum interest coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio, and a maximum senior secured leverage ratio, as defined. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our 8.00% and 8.25% senior unsecured notes impose a number of restrictions upon us, such as restrictions on granting liens on our assets, making investments in joint ventures, paying dividends, selling assets and engaging in acquisitions. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could have an adverse effect on us. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our 8.00% and 8.25% senior unsecured notes restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate those sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Unless we replace our gas reserves, our gas reserves and production will decline, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Producing natural gas reservoirs generally are characterized by declining production rates that vary depending upon reservoir characteristics and other factors. Because total estimated proved reserves include our proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2010, production is expected to decline even if those proved undeveloped reserves are developed and the wells produce as expected. The rate of decline will change if production from our existing wells declines in a different manner than we have estimated and can change under other circumstances. Thus, our future natural gas reserves and production and, therefore, our cash flow and income are highly dependent on our success in efficiently developing and exploiting our current reserves and economically finding or acquiring additional recoverable reserves. We may not be able to develop, find or acquire additional reserves to replace our current and future production at acceptable costs. 56 Table of Contents Our shale gas drilling and production operations requires both adequate sources of water to use in the fracturing process as well as the ability to dispose of water after hydraulic fracturing. Our CBM gas drilling and production operations also require the removal and disposal of water from the coal seams from which we produce gas. If we cannot find adequate sources of water for our use or are unable to dispose of the water we use or remove it from the strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules, our ability to produce gas economically and in commercial quantities could be impaired. As part of our drilling and production in the Marcellus shale, we use hydraulic fracturing processes. Thus, we need access to adequate sources of water to use in our Marcellus shale operations. Further, we must remove the water that we use to fracture our shale gas wells when it flows back to the well-bore. In addition, in our CBM drilling and production, coal seams frequently contain water that must be removed and disposed of in order for the gas to detach from the coal and flow to the well bore. Our inability to locate sufficient amounts of water with respect to our Marcellus Shale operations, or the inability to dispose of or recycle water used in our Marcellus shale and our CBM operations, could adversely impact our operations. Moreover, the imposition of new environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to conduct certain operations such as hydraulic fracturing or disposal of waste. These include, but are not limited to, produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes associated with the exploration, development or production of natural gas. These impositions may increase operating costs and cause delays, interruptions or termination of operations, the extent of which cannot be predicted, all of which could have an adverse affect on our operations and financial performance. For example, concerns over the impact of hydraulic fracturing on watersheds have led to a moratorium on drilling in the Marcellus shale in New York State. Our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks. To manage our exposure to fluctuations in the price of natural gas, we enter into hedging arrangements with respect to a portion of our expected production. As of January 24, 2011, we had hedges on approximately 69.2 billion cubic feet of our 2011 natural gas production, 26.4 billion cubic feet of our 2012 natural gas production, 7.5 billion cubic feet of our 2013 natural gas production and 7.5 billion cubic feet of our 2014 natural gas production. To the extent that we engage in hedging activities, we may be prevented from realizing the benefits of price increases above the levels of the hedges. In addition, such transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • the counterparties to our contracts fail to perform the contracts; or • the creditworthiness of our counterparties or their guarantors is substantially impaired. If our gas hedges would no longer qualify for hedge accounting, we will be required to mark them to market and recognize the adjustments through current year earnings. This may result in more volatility in our income in future periods. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 