ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our common stock, you should consider carefully the specific risks detailed in this "Risk Factors" section before making a decision to invest in our common stock, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed, the price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated with Product Development and Commercialization We currently depend entirely on the success of our lead compound, RP103. We may not receive marketing approval for, or successfully commercialize, RP103 for any indication. We currently have no drug products for sale. We are not permitted to market our lead compound, RP103, in the U.S. or any other market until we obtain necessary regulatory approvals. To market a new drug in the U.S., we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of an NDA for each individual disease indication. To market a new drug in Europe, we must submit to EMA or relevant regulatory authority in the designed Reference Member State and obtain approval of, an MAA for each individual disease indication. An NDA or MAA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls, to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the applicable product candidate for the treatment of each individual disease indication. In March 2012, we submitted an NDA to the FDA and an MAA to the EMA seeking approval to market our investigational drug candidate, Cysteamine Bitartrate Delayed-release Capsules (RP103) for the potential treatment of cystinosis. The FDA has assigned the user fee goal date of January 30, 2013 for the RP103 NDA. Our MAA for RP103 is under review by the EMA. We anticipate a decision from the EMA in the first half of calendar 2013. There is no assurance that we will obtain regulatory approval for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis in the U.S. or the EU. We have additional product development programs in the clinical testing stage for the use of RP103 in HD and in NASH. These product development programs have not advanced to the stage of a submission for marketing approval to the FDA or EMA or to any other regulatory body in any other jurisdiction. Obtaining approval of an NDA or MAA or any other filing for approval in a foreign country, is an extensive, lengthy, expensive and uncertain process. The FDA or other regulatory authority may reject a filing or delay, limit or deny approval of RP103 for many reasons, including: · the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical significance required by the FDA and regulatory authorities outside the U.S. for approval; · the FDA or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may disagree with the number, design, size, conduct or implementation of our clinical trials; may not find the data from preclinical studies and clinical trials sufficient to demonstrate that RP103 has adequate clinical and other benefits and an adequate safety profile; or may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials and require that we conduct one or more additional trials; · the FDA or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may not accept data generated at our clinical trial sites; · the FDA may have difficulties scheduling an advisory committee meeting in a timely manner or the advisory committee may recommend against approval of our application or may recommend that the FDA require, as a condition of approval, additional preclinical studies or clinical trials, limitations on approved labeling or distribution and use restrictions; · the FDA or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may require additional preclinical or clinical studies or other data prior to granting approval, and we may not be able to generate the required data on a timely basis if at all; · the FDA or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may impose limitations on approved labeling of RP103 thus introducing reimbursement complications which may limit access for intended users; · the FDA or EMA may identify deficiencies in the manufacturing processes or in the facilities of our third party contract manufacturers, or may require us to manufacture additional registration batches or change our process or specifications; · we may not be able to validate our manufacturing process to the satisfaction of the FDA or EMA, or the FDA may not agree with our plan for concurrent validation; or · the FDA or regulatory authorities outside the U.S. may change approval policies or adopt new regulations. Despite regulatory guidelines, we cannot reliably predict if or when any of the drug product candidates we are developing or intend to develop will be approved for marketing. If we fail within a reasonable time period to gain approval for our lead drug product program, RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, our financial results and financial condition will be adversely affected. In such a case, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research product development programs and may be forced to dramatically restructure or cease operations. -16- Any of our product candidates, if approved by the FDA, could be subject to labeling and other restrictions and market withdrawal, and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any regulatory approvals that we obtain for our product candidates will also be subject to limitations on the approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or to the conditions of approval. In addition, if the FDA approves a product candidate, the manufacturing processes, labeling, packaging, distribution, storage, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the product will be subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. These requirements will include submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, ongoing maintenance of product registration, as well as continued compliance with cGMPs (good manufacturing practices) or GCPs (good clinical practices), and GLPs (good laboratory practices). If we do not comply with the applicable regulations and requirements, the range of possible sanctions includes issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, suspension of marketing applications, and enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. The FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies can withdraw a product's approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. If we are unable to successfully commercialize RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, if approved, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. Our strategy is to build a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development of RP103 in multiple indications (with testing of additional applications of RP103) and a robust pipeline of other candidate compounds. We anticipate that, for at least the next several years, our ability to generate revenues will depend in large part upon U.S. and EU regulatory approval and successful commercialization of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, given that our other product candidates are currently in clinical or preclinical development. The successful commercialization of RP103 will depend on several factors, including: · approval of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis by applicable regulatory authorities; · the successful launch of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis in the U.S., the EU and other selected territories throughout the economically developed world; · identification of potential physician prescribers and potential patients for, and obtaining sales of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis; · effective communication of the relative safety and efficacy of RP103 compared to competitive products or therapeutic alternative regimes · obtaining acceptance of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis by physicians, parents, patients and cystinosis research/advocacy organizations; · obtaining and maintaining appropriate reimbursement for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis from commercial health plans and government health programs, which we refer to collectively as third-party payors; · maintaining compliance with regulatory requirements; · provision of affordable out-of-pocket cost to patients and/or other programs to ensure patient access to RP103; · approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies of appropriate product labeling for RP103; · establishing and maintaining agreements with wholesalers and distributors on commercially reasonable terms; · manufacture and supply of adequate supplies of RP103 to meet commercial and clinical demand; · development and maintenance of intellectual property protection for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis and obtaining favorable drug listing treatment by the FDA to minimize generic competition; and · execution of robust pre-launch, commercial launch and medical affairs activities in support of marketing and sales requirements. If we fail to successfully commercialize RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, if approved, at sufficient sales levels, we will be unable to generate sufficient sales revenue to sustain or grow our business and we may never become profitable, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially affected. If approved for marketing, pressure on drug product third-party coverage and reimbursement/pricing may impair our ability to be reimbursed for our products, at prices or on terms sufficient to provide a viable financial outcome. Market acceptance and sales of any product candidates that we may develop will depend in large part on global reimbursement policies and may be affected by future healthcare reform measures, both in the U.S. and other key international markets. The continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain, reduce or shift the costs of healthcare through various means may harm our business. Successful commercialization of our products will depend in part on the availability of governmental and third-party private payor reimbursement for the therapeutic value and price of our products. For example, in some foreign markets, the pricing or profitability of healthcare products is subject to -17- government control. In the U.S., there has been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government price control. If any of our product candidates become marketable, the implementation or even the announcement of any of these legislative or regulatory proposals or reforms could harm our business, by reducing the prices we are able to charge for our products, impeding our ability to achieve profitability, raise capital or form collaborations. In particular, in the U.S., private health insurers and other third-party payors often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of government payors, including the Medicare or Medicaid programs. In many European countries, patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the U.S. and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the EU will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales, and results of operations. In the U.S., EU and other significant or potentially significant markets for our product candidates, government authorities and third-party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, drug coverage and reimbursement policies and pricing in general. For our product candidates, we will not know what the reimbursement rates will be until we obtain regulatory approval and then launch and enter into payor negotiations. If we are unable to obtain sufficiently high reimbursement rates for our products, they may not be commercially viable. Even if we receive regulatory approval for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, our ability to generate revenues from RP103 will be subject to attaining significant market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors and the healthcare community. RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, if approved, may not attain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors or the healthcare community. We believe that the degree of market acceptance and our ability to generate revenues from RP103, if marketing approval is obtained, will depend on a number of factors, including: · availability of therapeutic alternatives; · timing of market introduction of our products as well as competitive drugs; · efficacy and safety and real-world patient and physician experience with our products; · identification of currently diagnosed and misdiagnosed patients and continued projected growth of the cystinosis market; · prevalence and severity of any side effects; · acceptance by patients, primary care specialists and key specialists; · potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages of our products over alternative treatments, including cost of treatment and relative convenience and ease of administration; · strength of sales, marketing, market access, medical affairs and distribution support; · the price of our products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; · the effect of current and future healthcare laws; · availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing from government and other third-party payors; and · breadth of product labeling or product insert requirements of the FDA or other regulatory authorities. If RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis does not receive significant market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payors or the healthcare community, our ability to generate revenues from this drug product will be severely affected. Because the target patient populations for some of our drug products are small, we must achieve significant market share and obtain relatively high per-patient prices for our products to achieve meaningful profitability. Our clinical development of RP103 target diseases with small patient populations, including cystinosis and HD. A key component of the successful commercialization of a drug product for these indications includes identification of patients and a targeted prescriber base for the drug product. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval to market RP103 for a disease with a small patient population and, in the case of HD, successful in developing this product candidate for that indication, we will need to identify patients and market RP103 for these indications in the U.S. and Europe, at a minimum, to achieve significant market penetration. In addition, the per-patient prices at which we sell RP103 for these indications will need to be relatively high in order for us to generate an appropriate return for the investment in these product development programs and achieve meaningful profitability. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying patients and/or obtaining high per-patient prices for our product candidates that target diseases with small patient populations. -18- Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, we will be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations, oversight and continued regulatory review, which may result in significant additional expense. If we receive approval for any of our products, such approvals could contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing, including Phase 4 clinical trials and extraordinary requirements for surveillance to monitor the safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Post-marketing studies and/or post-market surveillance may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects which present an increased risk to the patient. If data we collect from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is delayed or withdrawn, the value of our Company and our operating results will be adversely affected. If we fail to obtain and maintain approval from regulatory authorities in international markets for RP103 and any future product candidates for which we have rights in international markets, our market opportunities will be limited and our business will be adversely impacted. Sales of our product candidates outside of the U.S. will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements governing clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing approvals. Even if the FDA grants marketing approval for a product candidate, comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries, including the EMA must also approve the manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates in those countries. Approval procedures vary among jurisdictions and can involve requirements and administrative review periods different from, and greater than, those in the U.S., including additional preclinical studies or clinical trials or manufacturing and control requirements. In many countries outside the U.S., a product candidate must be approved for reimbursement before it can be approved for sale in that country. In many cases, the price that we propose to charge for our products is also subject to approval by individual countries before we can launch our product candidates in those countries. Obtaining foreign regulatory approvals, compliance with foreign regulatory requirements and approved pricing could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in certain countries. Further, clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries and regulatory approval in one country does not ensure approval in any other country, while a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in others. Government health care reform could increase our costs, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act of 2010, or the PPACA, is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the U.S., primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. Several provisions of the new law, which have varying effective dates, may affect us, including our costs. For example, the PPACA increased the Medicaid rebate rate, revised the definition of "average manufacturer price" for reporting purposes, which could further increase the amount of the Medicaid drug rebates paid to states, and extended the rebate program to beneficiaries enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations. The PPACA also expanded the 340B drug discount program (excluding orphan drugs), including the creation of new penalties for non-compliance and included a 50% discount on brand name drugs for Medicare Part D participants in the coverage gap, or "donut hole." The law also established an annual non-deductible fee on entities that sell branded prescription drugs or biologics to specified government programs in the U.S. Substantial new provisions affecting compliance also have been added, which may require us to modify our business practices with healthcare practitioners. Although the U.S. Supreme Court recently upheld most of the PPACA, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to certain provisions of PPACA through acts of Congress at some point in the future. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. Most recently, in August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which may result in such changes as aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. The full impact on our business of PPACA and the Budget Control Act is uncertain. We cannot predict whether other legislative changes will be adopted, if any, or how such changes would affect the pharmaceutical industry generally. We are or may be subject to various healthcare regulations, and if we fail to comply with such regulations, we could face substantial penalties. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include: · the federal healthcare programs' Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; · federal false claims laws which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent; -19- · federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters; · the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information; · state law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers; and · State reporting requirements detailing interactions with and payments to healthcare providers. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products after receiving regulatory approval and adversely impact our financial results. If we fail to demonstrate safety or efficacy in our preclinical studies or clinical trials or keep to the terms of a product development program, our future business prospects for these drug product candidates will be materially adversely affected. The success of our development and commercialization efforts will be greatly dependent upon our ability to demonstrate drug product candidate efficacy in preclinical studies and clinical trials. Preclinical studies involve testing drug product candidates in appropriate non-human disease models to demonstrate efficacy and safety. Regulatory agencies evaluate these data carefully before they will approve clinical testing in humans. If certain preclinical data reveals potential safety issues or the results are inconsistent with an expectation of the drug product candidate's efficacy in humans, the regulatory agencies may require additional more rigorous testing, before allowing human clinical trials. This additional testing will increase program expenses and extend timelines. We may decide to suspend further testing on our drug product candidates or technologies if, in the judgment of our management and advisors, the preclinical test results do not support further development. Following successful preclinical testing, drug product candidates will need to be tested in a clinical development program to provide data on safety and efficacy prior to becoming eligible for product approval and licensure by regulatory agencies. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. The clinical trial process may fail to demonstrate that our drug product candidates are safe for humans and effective for indicated uses. This failure would cause us to abandon a drug product candidate and may delay development of other drug product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our preclinical testing or clinical trials will delay the filing of our investigational new drug application, or IND, and NDA as applicable, with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our drug product candidates and generate product revenues. In addition, some of our clinical trials will involve small patient populations. Because of the small sample size, the results of these early clinical trials may not be indicative of future results. The failure to demonstrate safety or efficacy in our clinical trials would have a material adverse effect on our future business prospects, financial condition and operating results. We do not have a significant amount of manufacturing experience and expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce drug products that adequately support our clinical trials and commercial sales of any approved products. We do not currently manufacture our drug product candidates and do not currently plan to develop the capacity to do so. The manufacture of pharmaceutical products requires significant expertise and capital investment, including the development of advanced manufacturing techniques and process controls. Manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, particularly in scaling up initial production. These problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control, including stability of the product candidate and quality assurance testing, shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. Our third-party manufacturers and key suppliers may experience manufacturing difficulties due to resource constraints or as a result of labor disputes, severe weather events, unstable political environments at foreign facilities or financial difficulties. If these manufacturers or key suppliers were to encounter any of these difficulties, or otherwise fail to comply with their contractual obligations, our ability to timely launch any potential product candidate, if approved, would be jeopardized. In addition, all manufacturers and suppliers of pharmaceutical products must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA, through its facilities inspection program. The FDA is likely to conduct inspections of our third party manufacturer and key supplier facilities as part of their review of our NDAs. If our third party manufacturers and key suppliers are not in compliance with cGMP requirements, it may result in a delay of approval, particularly if these sites are supplying single source ingredients required for the manufacture of any potential product. These cGMP requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Furthermore, regulatory qualifications of manufacturing facilities are applied on the basis of the specific facility being used to produce supplies. As a result, if one of the manufacturers that we rely on shifts production from one facility to another, the new facility must go through a complete regulatory qualification and be approved by regulatory authorities prior to being used for commercial supply. Our manufacturers may be unable to comply with these -20- cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our third party manufacturer's or key supplier's failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. In addition, we rely on one exclusive supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or API, for RP103. While we work closely with this supplier to ensure continuity of supply while maintaining high quality and reliability, we cannot guarantee that these efforts will be successful. A reduction or interruption in our supply of API from this supplier, and efforts to identity and qualify alternative sources of supply, could result in significant additional operating costs and delays in developing and commercializing RP103. In addition, supply arrangements from alternative sources may not be available on acceptable economic terms. Our success depends on our ability to manage our projected growth. With the potential commercial launch of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, the continued progress of our clinical-stage programs and with our plan to in-license and acquire additional clinical-stage product candidates, we will be required to retain existing and add required new qualified and experienced personnel in the commercial, regulatory, manufacturing, program management, clinical and medical areas over the next several years. Also, as our preclinical pipeline diversifies through internal discoveries, or the acquisition or in-licensing of new molecules, we will need to hire additional scientists to supplement our existing scientific expertise over the next several years. Our staff, financial resources, systems, procedures or controls may be inadequate to support our expanding operations and our management may be unable to take advantage of future market opportunities or manage successfully our relationships with third parties if we are unable to adequately manage our anticipated growth and the integration of new personnel. We may not be successful in integrating our European operations with our U.S. operations. In connection with the potential commercial launch of RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, we have expanded our operations in Europe and have added and expect to continue to add personnel. We may encounter difficulties successfully managing a substantially larger and internationally diverse organization and may encounter delays in drug development and commercialization if we are not successful in integrating our international operations. Challenges related to managing international operations include the following: · the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; · potential miscommunication between U.S. personnel and European personnel due to cultural and language differences; · ability to operate with in diverse individual country regulatory and statutory laws; and · greater than anticipated costs of maintaining EU presence, in-country legal entities and related tax structures. Credit risks from customers outside the U.S. may negatively affect our results of operations. Any future sales of our potential products to government supported customers in various countries outside of the U.S. may be subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices, which will result in an increase in the length of time that we may have accounts receivable outstanding. For example, many governments in Europe are facing significant liquidity crises. If government reimbursement for future sales of our potential products is delayed or becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts payable to us from such customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our reliance on third parties may result in delays in completing, or a failure to complete, preclinical testing, clinical trials, or regulatory marketing submissions if they fail to perform under our agreements with them. In the course of product development, we may engage or collaborate with a variety of external organizations to perform services essential to drug product development. The organizations which perform services can include, but are not limited to: · governmental agencies, U.S. and international university laboratories; · other biotechnology companies; · contract manufacturing organizations; · clinical research organizations; · distribution and supply (logistics) service organizations; · testing organizations; · consultants or consulting organizations with specialized knowledge based expertise; · intellectual property legal firms; and · multiple other service organizations. -21- If we engage these organizations to help us with our product development programs, many important aspects of this process have been and will be out of our direct control. If any of these organizations we engage in the future fail to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or fail to perform in a satisfactory manner, we may face delays in completing our development and commercialization processes for any of our drug product candidates. Furthermore, any loss or delay in obtaining contracts with such entities may also delay the completion of our clinical trials, regulatory filings and the potential market approval of our drug product candidates. Specifically, we have and will continue to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations and/or co-operative groups, to assist us in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials as well as to process the clinical results. If third parties fail to perform or to meet the applicable standards, this will result in delays or failures to complete trials. A failure by us or such third parties to keep to the terms of a product development program for any particular product candidate or to complete the clinical trials for a product candidate in the anticipated time frame could have significant negative repercussions on our business and financial condition. Our dependence on collaborative arrangements with other independent parties will subject us to a number of risks that could harm our ability to develop and commercialize products: · collaborative arrangements might not be available on terms which are reasonably favorable to us; · disagreements with partners may result in delays in the development and marketing of products, termination of collaboration agreements or time consuming and expensive legal action; · outside of agreement terms (which may be different or costly to enforce, if enforceable), we cannot control the amount and timing of resources partners devote to product candidates or their prioritization of product candidates, and partners may not allocate sufficient funds or resources to the development, promotion or marketing of our product candidates, or may not perform their obligations as expected; · partners may choose to develop, independently or with other companies, alternative products or treatments, including products or treatments which compete with ours; · agreements with partners may expire or be terminated without renewal, or partners may breach collaboration agreements with us; · business combinations or significant changes in a partner's business strategy might adversely affect that partner's willingness or ability to complete their obligations to us; and · the terms and conditions of the relevant agreements may no longer be suitable. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to negotiate acceptable future collaboration agreements or that those currently in existence will make it possible for us to fulfill our objectives. Our business could be adversely affected by macroeconomic conditions. Various macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations and financial condition, including changes in inflation, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and overall economic conditions and uncertainties, including those resulting from the current and future conditions in the global financial markets. For instance, if inflation or other factors were to significantly increase our business costs, it may not be feasible to pass through price increases on to our future customers due to the process by which healthcare providers are reimbursed for our future products by the government. The U.S. credit and capital markets have recently experienced historic dislocations and liquidity crisis which have caused financing to be unavailable in many cases and, even if available, have caused the cost of prospective financings to significantly increase. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the debt and capital markets, making financing terms for borrowers or for companies seeking equity capital, for those companies that are able to find financing at all, less attractive. In many cases, financial conditions have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt or equity financing. Continued uncertainty in the debt and equity markets may negatively impact our ability to access financing on favorable terms or at all. Federal legislation to deal with the current disruptions in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our ability to raise other types of financing. In addition, our suppliers, manufacturers and other third parties important to our business also may be negatively impacted by market dislocations and disruptions, their business may be disrupted and this could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we do not obtain the support of new, and maintain the support of existing, key scientific and medical collaborators, it may be difficult to develop current and new products and establish those products as a standard of care for various indications. -22- We will need to establish relationships with additional leading scientists and research institutions. We believe that such relationships are pivotal to establishing products using our technologies as a standard of care for various indications. Although we have established a Medical and Scientific Advisory Board and research collaborations, there is no assurance that our Advisory Board members and our research collaborators will continue to work with us or that we will be able to attract additional research partners. If we are not able to maintain existing or establish new scientific relationships to assist in our research and development, we may not be able to successfully develop our drug product candidates. If we fail to obtain or maintain orphan drug exclusivity or regulatory exclusivity for some of our drug product candidates, our competitors may sell products to treat the same conditions and our revenues will be reduced. As part of our business strategy, we intend to develop some drugs that may be eligible for FDA and EMA orphan drug designation. Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may designate a product as an orphan drug if it is a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, defined as a patient population of less than 200,000 in the U.S. The company that first obtains FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a given rare disease receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the stated condition for a period of seven years (with an additional half year if for a pediatric indication). Orphan drug exclusive marketing rights may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantity of the drug. Similar regulations are available from the EMA with a 10-year period of market exclusivity. Because the extent and scope of patent protection for some of our drug products is particularly limited, orphan drug designation is especially important for our products that are eligible for orphan drug designation. For eligible drugs, we plan to rely on the exclusivity period under Orphan Drug Act designation to maintain a competitive position. If we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our enteric formulation of RP103, under the Hatch-Waxman Act, this formulation of RP103 is eligible for a 3-year regulatory exclusivity period as a reformulated version of a previously approved drug substance for which clinical studies that are essential for approval have been conducted. However, if we do not obtain orphan drug exclusivity for our drug products that do not have patent protection, our competitors may then sell the same drug to treat the same condition and our revenues will be reduced. Even though we have been granted orphan drug designation for RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis and RP103 for the potential treatment of HD, and even if we obtain orphan drug designation for our future drug product candidates, due to the uncertainties associated with developing pharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for any orphan indication. Further, even if we obtain orphan drug exclusivity for a product, that exclusivity may not effectively protect the product from competition because different drugs can be approved for the same condition. Even after an orphan drug is approved, the FDA can subsequently approve the same drug for the same condition if the FDA concludes that the later drug is safer, more effective or makes a major contribution to patient care. Orphan drug designation neither shortens the development time or regulatory review time of a drug, nor gives the drug any advantage in the regulatory review or approval process. The priority review for our drug product candidates, if obtained, may not actually lead to a faster review process. In the future, we may request six month priority review from the FDA and EMA for RP103 for HD and our other drug product candidates; however, the FDA and EMA may not grant it. Without priority review, the FDA and EMA review timeline could be at least 10 to 12 months. Under the FDA policies, a drug candidate is eligible for priority review from the time a complete NDA is accepted for filing, if the drug candidate provides a significant improvement compared to marketed drugs in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. A lengthier review process will delay revenue from the sale of products and will increase the capital necessary to fund these product development programs. Any product revenues could be reduced by imports from countries where our product candidates are available at lower prices. Even if we obtain FDA approval to market our potential products in the U.S., our sales in the U.S. may be reduced if our products are imported into the U.S. from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally. In the U.S., prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico. There have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the U.S. If such legislation were enacted, our potential future revenues could be reduced. Our future international sales and operating expenses will be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If RP103 is approved by regulatory authorities outside the U.S. and we sell RP103 in such jurisdictions, a portion of our business will be conducted in currencies other than our reporting currency, the U.S. dollar. We will recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period in which we incur those gains or losses. As a result, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business will likely cause foreign currency translation gains and losses in the future. Because of the number of currencies that may be involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates, we may suffer significant foreign currency translation losses in the future due to the effect of exchange rate fluctuations. -23- The use of any of our drug product candidates in clinical trials or the commercialization of our drug products in the future may expose us to liability claims. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability risks inherent in the testing (including through human trials), manufacturing and marketing of our drug product candidates. While we are in clinical stage testing, our drug product candidates could potentially harm people or allegedly harm people and we may be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. Many of the patients who participate in our current clinical trials are already critically ill or suffering from chronic debilitating diseases when they enter a trial. The waivers we obtain may not be enforceable and may not protect us from liability or the costs of product liability litigation. Although we currently carry a $5.0 million clinical product liability insurance policy, it may not be sufficient to cover future claims. In addition, the product liability insurance that we will need to obtain in connection with the commercial sales of our product candidates, if and when they receive regulatory approval, may not be sufficient or available in meaningful amounts or at a reasonable cost. Furthermore, we may not be able to avoid significant liability if any product liability claim is brought against us. If a successful product liability claim is brought against us and the amount of liability exceeds our insurance coverage, we may incur substantial charges that would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We currently do not have any clinical or product liability claims or threats of claims filed against us. Our future success depends, in part, on the continued services of our management team. Our success is dependent in part upon the availability of our senior executive officers. The loss or unavailability to us of any of these individuals or key research and development personnel, and particularly if lost to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. We have no key-man insurance on any of our employees. There is intense competition for qualified scientists and managerial personnel from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic and government organizations, research institutions and other entities. In addition, we will rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development strategy. All of our consultants and advisors will be employed by other employers or be self-employed, and will have commitments to or consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain key employees and/or consultants. If key employees terminate their employment, or if insufficient numbers of qualified employees are retained, or are not available via recruitment, to maintain effective operations, our development activities might be adversely affected, management's attention might be diverted from managing our operations to hiring suitable replacements, and our business might suffer. In addition, we might not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees that terminate their employment with us and we may not be able to offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, which could negatively impact our product candidate development timelines and may adversely affect our future revenues and financial condition. If we do not achieve our projected development and commercialization goals in the time frames we expect and announce, the credibility of our management and our organizational competence may be adversely affected. For planning purposes, we estimate the timing of the accomplishment of various scientific, clinical, regulatory, market launch and commercialization goals, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones may include the commencement or completion of scientific studies and clinical trials and the submission of regulatory filings. From time to time, we may publicly announce the estimated timing of some of these milestones. All of these milestones will be based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in many cases for reasons beyond our control. For example, clinical trials may be delayed due to factors such as IRB approvals, qualification of clinical sites, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions and the rate of patient enrollment. In most circumstances, we rely on academic institutions, major medical institutions, governmental research organizations (U.S. or internationally based), clinical research organizations or contract manufacturing organizations to conduct, supervise or monitor some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our product candidates. We will have limited control over the timing and other aspects of these clinical trials. If we do not meet the milestones as publicly announced (or as projected by various analysts who follow our Company), our stockholders or potential stockholders may lose confidence in our ability to meet overall product development and commercialization goals and, as a result, the price of our common stock may decline. We will incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations and our management will be required to devote substantial time to comply with such laws and regulations. -24- We face burdens relating to the recent trend toward stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards. Legislation or regulations such as the Sunshine Act, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as other rules implemented by the FDA, the SEC and NASDAQ, follow the trend of imposing stricter corporate governance and financial reporting standards have led to an increase in the costs of compliance for companies similar to us, including substantial increases in consulting, auditing and legal fees. New rules could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors' and officers' liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. Failure to comply with these new laws and regulations may impact market perception of our financial condition and could materially harm our business. Additionally, it is unclear what additional laws or regulations may develop, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in law. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these requirements. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting and related expense and expend significant management efforts. In the future, we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff to satisfy the ongoing requirements of Section 404. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facility and equipment, or that of our third-party manufacturers or single-source suppliers, which could materially impair our ability to continue our product development programs. Our executive offices and laboratory facility are located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to significant damage from earthquakes. We and the contract manufacturers and our single-source suppliers of raw materials and critical services are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fires, storms, floods, power losses and similar events. If such a disaster were to occur, our ability to continue our product development programs or product commercialization activities could be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Competition If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, we may not be able to compete as effectively and our business and financial prospects may be harmed. Where possible, we seek patent protection for certain aspects of our technology. Patent protection may not be available for some of the drug product candidates we are developing. If we must spend extraordinary time and money protecting our patents, designing around patents held by others or licensing, potentially for large fees, patents or other proprietary rights held by others, our business and financial prospects may be harmed. The patent positions of biopharmaceutical products are complex and uncertain. We own or license issued U.S. and foreign patents and pending U.S. and foreign patent applications related to certain of our drug product candidates. However, these patents and patent applications do not ensure the protection of our intellectual property for a number of reasons, including the following: · We do not know whether our patent applications will result in issued patents. For example, we may not have developed a method for treating a disease before others developed similar methods; · Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us, or file patent applications before we do. Competitors may also claim that we are infringing on their patents and therefore cannot practice our technology as claimed under our patents, if issued. Competitors may also contest our patents, if issued, by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. In litigation, a competitor could claim that our patents, if issued, are not valid for a number of reasons. If a court agrees, we would lose that patent. As a company, we have no meaningful experience with competitors interfering with our patents or patent applications; -25- · Enforcing patents is expensive and may absorb significant management time. Management would spend less time and resources on developing drug product candidates. The processes of defending patents and related intellectual property could increase our operating expenses and delay product programs; and · Receipt of a patent may not provide much practical protection. If we receive a patent with a narrow scope, then it will be easier for competitors to design products that do not infringe on our patent. In addition, competitors also seek patent protection for their technology. Due to the number of patents in our field of technology, we cannot be certain that we do not infringe on those patents or that we will not infringe on patents granted in the future. If a patent holder believes our drug product candidate infringes on its patent, the patent holder may sue us even if we have received patent protection for our technology. If someone else claims we infringe on their technology, we would face a number of issues, including the following: · Defending a lawsuit takes significant time is typically very expensive; · If a court decides that our drug product candidate infringes on the competitor's patent, we may have to pay substantial damages for past infringement; · A court may prohibit us from selling or licensing the drug product candidate unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us. The patent holder is not required to grant us a license. If a license is available, we may have to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and · Redesigning our drug product candidates so we do not infringe may not be possible or practical and could require substantial funds and time. It is also unclear whether our trade secrets are adequately protected. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that someone else illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the U.S. are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. Our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how. We may also support and collaborate in research conducted by government organizations, hospitals, universities or other educational institutions. These research partners may be unwilling to grant us any exclusive rights to technology or products derived from these collaborations prior to entering into the relationship. If we do not obtain required licenses or rights, we could encounter delays in our product development efforts while we attempt to design around other patents or even be prohibited from developing, manufacturing or selling drug product candidates requiring these licenses. There is also a risk that disputes may arise as to the rights to technology or drug product candidates developed in collaboration with other parties. If we are limited in our ability to utilize acquired or licensed technologies, we may be unable to develop, out-license, market and sell our product candidates, which could prevent new product introductions and/or cause delayed new product introductions. We have acquired and licensed certain proprietary technologies, discussed in the following risk factors, and plan to further license and acquire various patents and proprietary technologies owned by other parties. The agreements in place are critical to our product development programs. These agreements may be terminated, and all rights to the technologies and product candidates will be lost, if we fail to perform our obligations under these agreements and licenses in accordance with their terms including, but not limited to, our ability to fund all payments due under such agreements. Our inability to continue to maintain these technologies could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, our business strategy depends on the successful development of licensed and acquired technologies into commercial products, and, therefore, any limitations on our ability to utilize these technologies may impair our ability to develop, out-license, or market and sell our product candidates, delay new product introductions, and/or adversely affect our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. If the purchase or licensing agreements we entered into are terminated, we will lose the right to use or exploit our owned and licensed technologies. We entered into: a licensing agreement with UCSD for RP103/RP104; a licensing agreement with Washington University for mesoderm development protein, or Mesd; and a licensing agreement with Yeda Research and Development Company Limited, or Yeda, for patents originating from Weizmann Institute of Technology and Niigata University, related to use of transglutaminase inhibitors to treat neurological diseases. UCSD, Washington University and Yeda may terminate their respective agreements with us upon the occurrence of certain events, including if we enter into certain bankruptcy proceedings or if we materially breach our payment obligations and fail to remedy the breach within the permitted cure periods. Although we are not currently involved in any bankruptcy proceedings or in breach of these agreements, there is a risk that we may be in the future, giving UCSD, Washington University and Yeda the right to terminate their respective agreements with us. We have the right to terminate these agreements at any time by giving prior written notice. If the UCSD, Washington University or Yeda agreements are -26- terminated by either party, we would lose our rights to RP103/RP104 in the case of UCSD, would lose our rights to the Mesd technology in the case of the Washington University agreement, and would lose our rights to the Weizmann and Niigata patents in the case of Yeda. Under such circumstances, we would have no further right to use or exploit the patents, copyrights or trademarks in those respective technologies. If this happens, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected, and we may have to cease our operations. Companies and universities, including those that have licensed product candidates to us for research, clinical development and marketing, are sophisticated competitors that could develop similar products to compete with our products which could reduce our future revenues. Licensing our product candidates from other companies, universities or individuals does not always prevent them from developing non-identical but competitive products for their own commercial or research purposes, or from pursuing patent protection in areas that are competitive with us. While we seek patent protection for all of our owned and licensed product candidates, our licensors or assignors or other research organizations who created these product candidates are experienced scientists and business people who may continue to do research and development and seek patent protection in the same areas that led to the discovery of the product candidates that are licensed or assigned to us. By virtue of the previous research that led to the discovery of the drugs or product candidates that they licensed or assigned to us, these companies, universities, or individuals may be able to develop and out-license or market competitive products in less time than might be required to develop a product with which they have no prior experience and may reduce our future revenues from such product candidates. In some instances, information published in the scientific literature can provide insights which could enable development of viable competitive product candidates on an accelerated time frame. If our competitors succeed in developing products and technologies that are more effective than our own, or if scientific developments change our understanding of the potential scope and utility of our drug product candidates, then our technologies and future drug product candidates may be rendered less competitive. We face significant competition from industry participants that are pursuing similar technologies that we are pursuing and are developing pharmaceutical products that are competitive with our drug product candidates. All of our large pharmaceutical competitors have greater capital resources, larger overall research and development staffs and facilities, and a longer history in drug discovery, development, regulatory approval, manufacturing and marketing than we do. With these additional resources and experience, our competitors may be able to respond to rapid and significant technological changes in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries faster than we can. We expect that the technologies associated with biotechnology research and development will continue to develop rapidly. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to these technologies. Rapid technological development, as well as new scientific developments, may result in our compounds, drug product candidates or processes becoming obsolete before we can recover any or all of the expenses incurred to develop them. For example, changes in our understanding of the appropriate population of patients who should be treated with a targeted therapy like we are developing may limit the drug's market potential if it is subsequently demonstrated that only certain subsets of patients should be treated with the targeted therapy. If our agreements with employees, consultants, advisors and corporate partners fail to protect our intellectual property, proprietary information or trade secrets, it could have a significant adverse effect on us. We have taken steps to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology, by entering into confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and corporate and educational institution partners. Such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements, and we may not be able to prevent such unauthorized disclosure. Monitoring unauthorized disclosure is difficult, and we do not know whether the steps we have taken to prevent such disclosure are, or will be, adequate. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital Requirements Our product development and commercialization programs will require substantial future funding which will impact our operational and financial condition. Excluding RP103 for the potential treatment of cystinosis, it will take several years before we are able to develop our other drug product candidates into marketable drug products, if at all. The marketing and sales effort of our products, our ability to gain adequate reimbursement, if approved for sale, and our product development programs will require substantial additional capital to successfully complete them, arising from costs to: · conduct research, preclinical testing and human studies and clinical trials; · establish or contract for pilot scale and commercial scale manufacturing processes and facilities; · market and distribute our products; and -27- · establish and develop quality control, regulatory, medical, manufacturing, distribution, marketing, sales, finance and administrative capabilities to support these programs. Our future operating and capital needs will depend on many factors, including: · the effectiveness of our commercialization activities; · the scope and results of preclinical testing and human clinical trials; · the pace of scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of these programs; · our ability to obtain, and the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; · the cost of manufacturing scale-up for new product candidates; · our ability to prosecute, maintain, and enforce, and the time and costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · competing technological and market developments; · our ability to establish additional collaborations; and · changes in our existing collaborations. We base our outlook regarding the need for funds on many uncertain variables. Such uncertainties include the success of our efforts to commercialize our products, if approved, the success of our research initiatives, regulatory approvals, the timing of events outside our direct control such as negotiations with payors, potential strategic partners and other factors. In additional, certain product programs may require collaborative agreements with corporate partners with substantial assets and organizations to help with the very substantial funds required and the complex organizational resources required. Such agreements may require substantial time to complete and may not be available in the time frame desired, with acceptable financial terms, if at all. Any of these uncertain events can significantly change our cash requirements as they determine such one-time events as the receipt or payment of major milestones and other payments. Significant additional funds from outside financing sources will be required to support our operations and if we are unable to obtain them on acceptable terms, we may be required to cease or reduce further development or commercialization of our drug product programs, to sell some or all of our technology or assets, to merge with another entity or to cease operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results will be adversely affected. As of August 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $117 million. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and will have to raise substantial cash to fund our planned operations. Our recurring losses from operations to date raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and, as a result, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its report on our consolidated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2012, with respect to this uncertainty. We will need to raise additional capital and/or generate significant revenue at profitable levels to continue to operate as a going concern. In addition, the perception that we may not be able to continue as a going concern may cause others to choose not to deal with us due to concerns about our ability to meet our contractual obligations and may adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. As of August 31, 2012, our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments were approximately $39 million. We believe our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of August 31, 2012 and cash we have generated from the proceeds of sales of our common stock under our at-the-market sales agreement to-date, will be sufficient to meet our projected operational requirements and obligations into the third quarter of calendar 2013. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in raising sufficient funds when needed. If we are unable to obtain such additional capital when needed, we will be forced to reduce our expenditures or seek other corporate solutions. In addition, in the future, we may need to sell equity or debt securities to raise additional funds to support, among other things, our development and commercialization programs. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities will result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. We may be unable to raise additional capital due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our research and development programs, the status of regulatory reviews for marketing approvals, the status of our commercialization activities, the execution of our potential launch of RP103 for cystinosis and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise additional financing when needed, we may have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, scale back our operations and/or reduce our pre-launch/launch expenses for RP103. If such actions are required, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected and our current value and potential future value may be significantly reduced. -28- Risks Related to Our Common Stock There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market, and the issuance or sale of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities in the market, or the perception of such future sales or issuances, could lead to a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Any issuance of equity, convertible or exchangeable securities, including for the purposes of financing acquisitions and the expansion of our business, will have a dilutive effect on our existing stockholders. In addition, the perceived market risk associated with the possible issuance of a large number of shares of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into a large number of shares of our common stock could cause some of our stockholders to sell their common stock, thus causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. Subsequent sales of our common stock in the open market or the private placement of our common stock or securities convertible or exchangeable into our common stock could also have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. If our common stock price declines, it will be more difficult for us to raise additional capital or we may be unable to raise additional capital at all. As of August 31, 2012, there were (i) outstanding warrants to purchase 5,187,772 shares of our common stock at a weighted-average exercise price of $3.02 per share, (ii) outstanding options to purchase 5,975,559 shares of our common stock outstanding under our 2010 and 2006 Raptor stock option plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $4.12, (iii) options to purchase 149,264 shares of our common stock outstanding under our TorreyPines Therapeutics stock option plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $75.87 and (iv) 3,691,901 shares of our common stock available for future stock option grants to be issued under our 2010 Raptor stock option plan. The shares issuable upon exercise of stock options granted under our stock option plans will be available for immediate resale in the public market. The shares issuable upon the exercise of our warrants will be available for immediate resale in the public market. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such exercises due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Our executive officers and our board of directors own, in the aggregate, 917,597 shares, or approximately 1.8% of our outstanding common stock as of October 18, 2012. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by such officers and directors in the public trading market, whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, or the perception that these sales may occur, could also have a significant effect on volatility and the trading price of our common stock. Future milestone payments, as more fully set forth under "Contractual Obligations with Thomas E. Daley (assignee of the dissolved Convivia, Inc.)" under Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies in our consolidated financial statements and "Contractual Obligations with Former Encode Security Holders" section located in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended August 31, 2012, in connection with our acquisition of the Convivia assets and merger with Encode will result in dilution. We may be required to make additional contingent payments of up to 699,369 shares of our common stock, in the aggregate, under the terms of our acquisition of Convivia assets and merger with Encode, based on milestones related to certain future marketing and development approvals obtained with respect to Convivia and Encode product candidates. The issuance of any of these shares will result in further dilution to our existing stockholders. In addition we have an at-the-market sales agreement with Cowen and Company which, as of October 18, 2012, allows us to sell up to an additional $26.2 million worth of stock, which, if utilized further, will create substantial dilution for our existing stockholders. In connection with other collaborations, joint ventures, license agreements or future financings that we may enter into in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities, and the value of the securities issued may be substantial and create additional dilution to our existing and future common stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, investors will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. Investors seeking dividend income should not purchase shares of our common stock. We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We anticipate that we will retain our future earnings, if any, to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in the value of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain its current price. Investors seeking dividend income should not invest in our common stock. Our stock price is volatile, which could result in substantial losses over short periods of time for our stockholders. The trading volume in our common stock may be relatively small. Our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. Our operating performance, both financial and in the development of approved products, does and will continue to significantly affect the market price of our common stock. We face a number of risks including those described herein, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. -29- The market price of our common stock also may be adversely impacted by broad market and industry fluctuations regardless of our operating performance, including general economic and technology trends. The NASDAQ Global Market has, from time to time, experienced extreme price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of biopharmaceutical development companies such as ours have been extremely volatile. Market prices for securities of pre-commercial pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences companies have historically been particularly volatile and trading volume in such securities has often been relatively small. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: · the results and timing of regulatory reviews relating to the approval of our drug candidates; · failure of any of our drug candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success and, in particular, the rate of market penetration and sales growth in the launch period; · the results of our current and any future clinical trials of our current drug candidates; · issues in manufacturing our drug candidates or any approved products; · the entry into, or termination of, key agreements, including key strategic alliance agreements; · failure to meet security analysts' and investors' expectations; · the results of ongoing preclinical studies and planned early stage clinical trials of our preclinical drug candidates; · the initiation of, material developments in, or conclusion of litigation to enforce or defend any of our intellectual property rights; · general and industry-specific economic conditions that may affect our product program expenditures; · the results of clinical trials conducted by others on drugs that would compete with our drug candidates; · the loss of key employees; · the introduction by others of technological innovations or new commercial products or development of product programs which have a direct negative competitive impact on our products or product development programs; · changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if any, who cover our common stock or influence the level of investor confidence in our sector of the equity market; · future sales of our common stock or exercise of common stock warrants or options; · changes in the structure of health care payment systems; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. Moreover, the stock markets in general have experienced substantial volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. The stock market also has periods during which industry segments, such as biotechnology, are in volatile swings of greater or lesser favor as investments. These swings in the investment in a sector (periods of net sales or purchases of equity securities) will directly affect the stock prices of many companies in the sector and, in particular, those companies that do not have conventional measures of financial and business health such as sales, earnings, growth rates, profitability and other measures. These broad market fluctuations typically will adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholders have often instituted class action securities litigation against those companies. Such litigation can result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, in our stockholder rights plan and in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may prevent or complicate attempts by stockholders to change the board of directors or current management and could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law as currently in effect may make a change in control of our Company more difficult, even if a change in control may be beneficial to the stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 15.0 million shares of preferred stock, none of which are issued or outstanding. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Our charter contains provisions that may enable our management to resist an unwelcome takeover attempt by a third party, including: a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders; the fact that stockholder meetings must be called by our board of directors; and provisions requiring stockholders to provide advance notice of proposals. Delaware law also -30- prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our Company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. We are a party to a stockholder rights plan, also referred to as a poison pill, which is intended to deter a hostile takeover of us by making such proposed acquisition more expensive and less desirable to the potential acquirer. The stockholder rights plan and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended, contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. -31- ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 