Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. These risk factors should be considered by prospective and current investors in our common stock when evaluating the disclosures in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (particularly the forward-looking statements). These risk factors could cause actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward- looking statements. If any of the events in the following risks actually occur, or if additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we believe are immaterial do materialize, then our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of the events described in these risks. We are subject to restrictions and conditions of Cease and Desist Orders issued by our regulators. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant additional regulatory compliance expense in connection with the Orders. Failure to comply with the Orders could result in additional enforcement action against us. The regulators have issued Cease and Desist Orders against the Holding Company and CFBank. The Orders currently contain a number of significant directives, including requirements to reduce the level of our classified and criticized assets, operating restrictions, restrictions on brokered deposits and restrictions on dividend payments. These restrictions may impact our ability to operate our business efficiently. If we fail to comply with the terms and conditions of the Orders, the regulators could take additional enforcement action against us. 35 Table of Contents In addition, the regulators must approve any deviation from our business plan, which could limit our ability to make any changes to our business impacting the scope and flexibility of our business activities. While we plan to take appropriate actions and intend to seek to have the Orders terminated in the future, there can be no assurance that such actions will result in regulators terminating the Orders. Reduction in the level of our problem assets may not be sufficient to achieve compliance with the levels we must meet according to our plan submitted for approval by the regulators. The regulators have directed CFBank to submit for regulatory approval a plan with specific strategies, targets and timeframes to reduce the level of problem assets. This plan has a non-objection by the regulators. If we do not maintain compliance with the plan to reduce the level of problem assets, the regulators could take additional enforcement action against us, including the imposition of further operating restrictions. The allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Higher loan losses could require us to increase our allowance for loan losses through a charge to earnings. When we loan money we incur the risk that our borrowers will not repay their loans. We reserve for loan losses by establishing an allowance through a charge to earnings. The amount of this allowance is based on our assessment of probable incurred credit losses in our loan portfolio. The process for determining the amount of the allowance is critical to our financial condition and results of operations. It requires subjective and complex judgments about the future, including forecasts of economic or market conditions that might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. It also requires that we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. The allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable losses in our loan portfolio. We might underestimate the loan losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have loan losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions. For example, when real estate values decline, the potential severity of loss on a real estate-secured loan can increase significantly, especially in the case of loans with high loan-to-value ratios. The lingering nature of the decline in the national economy and the local economies of the areas in which our loans are concentrated could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures or repossessions resulting in increased charge-off amounts and the need for additional loan loss allowances in future periods. In addition, our determination as to the amount of our allowance for loan losses is subject to review by our regulators as part of their examination process, which may result in the establishment of an additional allowance based upon the judgment of the regulators after a review of the information available at the time of their examination. The additions to our allowance for loan losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses, which would reduce our income and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and profitability. 36 Table of Contents A continuation of turmoil in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Since 2008, United States and global financial markets have experienced severe disruption and volatility, and general economic conditions have declined significantly. Adverse developments in credit quality, asset values and revenue opportunities throughout the financial services industry, as well as general uncertainty regarding the economic, industry and regulatory environment, have had a marked negative impact on the industry. Dramatic declines in the U.S. housing market, with falling home and real estate prices, increasing foreclosures and high unemployment, have negatively affected the credit performance of loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by many financial institutions. The U.S. and the governments of other countries have taken steps to try to stabilize the financial system, including investing in financial institutions, and have also been working to design and implement programs to improve general economic conditions. Notwithstanding the actions of the U.S. and other governments, these efforts may not succeed in improving industry, economic or market conditions and may result in adverse unintended consequences. Factors that could continue to pressure financial services companies, including the Company, are numerous and include: (i) worsening credit quality, leading among other things to increases in loan losses and reserves; (ii) continued or worsening disruption and volatility in financial markets, leading to, among other things, continuing reductions in asset values; (iii) capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally; (iv) limitations resulting from or imposed in connection with governmental actions intended to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system; or (v) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. An economic downturn could result in increases in our level of nonperforming loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which would lead to lower revenue, higher loan losses and lower earnings. Our business activities and earnings are affected by general business conditions in the U.S. and in our local market area. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, unemployment levels, monetary supply, consumer confidence and spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and the strength of the economy in the U.S. generally and in our market area in particular. In the current low growth environment, the national economy has experienced a general economic downturn, with high unemployment levels, declines in real estate values and the erosion of consumer confidence. Our primary market area has also been negatively impacted by the economic recession. From the fourth quarter of 2008 well into 2012, unemployment rates in Ohio increased from 7.1% to 7.6%, according to Bureau of Labor Statistics data. In addition, our primary market area has also experienced a softening of the local real estate market, a reduction in local property values and a decline in the local manufacturing industry. While such metrics showed stabilization during the fourth quarter of 2012, an economic downturn, continued unemployment, declines in the values of real estate, or other events that affect our borrowers could impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans in accordance with their terms and could reduce the value of collateral securing these loans. Nearly all of our loans are secured by real estate located in Ohio or made to businesses in Ohio. The economic downturn could also result in reduced demand for credit or fee-based products and services, which also would decrease our revenues. We may make, or be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As a result of changes in balances and composition of the loan portfolio, changes in economic and market conditions that occur from time to time and other factors specific to a borrower’s circumstances, the level of nonperforming assets will fluctuate. Although we have made progress in reducing our level of nonperforming assets during 2011 and 2012, we expect nonperforming assets to remain at historically high levels for the immediate future. If housing and real estate markets resume decline, we expect that we will experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. Current levels of, or an increase in our nonperforming assets, credit losses or our provision for loan losses would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Our emphasis on commercial, commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Because payments on commercial loans are dependent on successful operation of the business enterprise, repayment of such loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the economy. Because payments on loans secured by commercial real estate properties are dependent on successful operation or management of the properties, repayment of commercial real estate loans may be subject to a greater extent to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. Commercial real estate and multi-family residential mortgage loans also have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Some of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate or multi-family residential mortgage loan outstanding with us. Additionally, some loans may be collateralized by junior liens. Consequently, an adverse development involving one or more loans or credit relationships can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development involving a single-family residential mortgage loan. Our adjustable-rate loans may expose us to increased lending risks. While adjustable-rate loans better offset the adverse effects of an increase in interest rates as compared to fixed-rate loans, the increased payments required of adjustable-rate loan borrowers upon an interest rate adjustment in a rising interest rate environment could cause an increase in delinquencies and defaults. The marketability of the underlying property also may be adversely affected in a rising interest rate environment. In addition, although adjustable-rate loans help make our asset base more responsive to changes in interest rates, the extent of this interest sensitivity is limited by the annual and lifetime interest rate adjustment limits. Our financial condition and results of operations are dependent on the economy in CFBank’s market area. CFBank’s principal market area for loans includes the following Ohio counties: Summit County, and contiguous counties through our office in Fairlawn, Ohio; Franklin County, and contiguous counties through our office in Worthington, Ohio; and Columbiana County, and contiguous counties through our offices in Calcutta and Wellsville, Ohio. We have originated commercial and conventional real estate loans and business loans primarily throughout Ohio. Most of our deposits and loans come from our market area. Because of CFBank’s concentration of business activities in Ohio, our financial condition and results of operations depend upon economic conditions in Ohio. Adverse economic conditions in Ohio could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in Ohio could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. Increased and/or special FDIC assessments would hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the deposit insurance fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, our deposit insurance costs are higher than those of many of our competitors, as we pay elevated FDIC premiums as a result of the CFBank Order. Any further increased and/or special FDIC assessment will further negatively impact our earnings. 38 Table of Contents CFBank is a party to interest-rate swap agreements that could be called by the counterparty as a result of CFBank’s failure to maintain well-capitalized status due to the CFBank Order. CFBank is a party to interest-rate swap agreements that could be called by the counterparty as a result of CFBank’s failure to maintain well-capitalized status. CFBank utilizes interest-rate swaps as part of its asset liability management strategy to help manage its interest rate risk position. CFBank has a program whereby it lends to its borrowers at a fixed rate with the loan agreement containing a two-way yield maintenance provision, which will be invoked in the event of prepayment of the loan, and is expected to exactly offset the fair value of unwinding the swap. The agreements with the borrowers only require payment on the yield maintenance provision in the event of prepayment of the loan or loan default. While the counterparty has not requested payment at this time, it may elect to do so at any time while CFBank’s capital is less than required for well-capitalized status. If the counterparty elected to request payment, CFBank would be required to remit $1.0 million based on the December 31, 2012 valuation of the interest-rate swaps. Should interest rates decrease from December 31, 2012 levels, the required payment may increase in the event the swaps are called. In the event the interest-rate swaps are called and CFBank is unable to replace them, CFBank will be exposed to the market risk of the valuation of the yield maintenance provisions and, absent the borrowers’ prepaying the loans, as of December 31, 2012 would incur a net $1.0 million expense, subject to valuation fluctuations, over the remaining lives of the related loans. Changing interest rates may decrease our earnings and asset values. Management is unable to accurately predict future market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including, but not limited to inflation, recession, changes in employment levels, changes in the money supply and domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce our profits. Net interest income is a significant component of our net income, and consists of the difference, or spread, between interest income generated on interest-earning assets and interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Although certain interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may have similar maturities or periods to which they reprice, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. In addition, residential mortgage loan origination volumes are affected by market interest rates on loans. Rising interest rates generally are associated with a lower volume of loan originations, while falling interest rates are usually associated with higher loan originations. Our ability to generate gains on sales of mortgage loans is significantly dependent on the level of originations. Cash flows are affected by changes in market interest rates. Generally, in rising interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to decline, and in falling interest rate environments, loan prepayment rates are likely to increase. A majority of our commercial, commercial real estate and multi-family residential real estate loans are adjustable rate loans and an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations, especially borrowers with loans that have adjustable rates of interest. Changes in interest rates, prepayment speeds and other factors may also cause the value of our loans held for sale to change. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect our net interest spread, loan volume, asset quality, value of loans held for sale and cash flows, as well as the market value of our securities portfolio and overall profitability. 39 Table of Contents The Holding Company and CFBank operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Holding Company and CFBank are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by our regulators. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of CFBank. The regulation and supervision by our regulators are not intended to protect the interests of investors in the Company’s common stock. Regulators have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act which could impact the performance of the Holding Company and CFBank in future periods. The Dodd-Frank Act included numerous provisions intended to strengthen the financial industry, enhance consumer protection, expand disclosures and provide for transparency. Some of these provisions included changes to FDIC insurance coverage, which included a permanent increase in the coverage to $250,000 per depositor. Additional provisions created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which is authorized to write rules on all consumer financial products. Still other provisions created a Financial Stability Oversight Council, which is not only empowered to determine the entities that are systemically significant and therefore require more stringent regulations, but is also charged with reviewing, and when appropriate, submitting, comments to the Securities and Exchange Commission and Financial Accounting Standards Board with respect to existing or proposed accounting principles, standards or procedures. Further, the Dodd-Frank Act retained the thrift charter and merged the OTS, the former regulator of the Holding Company and CFBank, into the OCC, and the Holding Company is now regulated by the FED. The aforementioned are only a few of the numerous provisions included in the Dodd-Frank Act. The overall impact of the entire Dodd-Frank Act will not be known until the full implementation is completed, but the possibility of significant additional compliance costs exists, and the Dodd-Frank Act consequently may have a material adverse impact on our operations. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial services companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could result in our not being able to sustain or grow our loan and deposit businesses. We conduct our business operations primarily in Summit, Columbiana and Franklin Counties, Ohio, and make loans generally throughout Ohio. Increased competition within these markets may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include other savings associations, community banks, regional banks and money center banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. Our competitors with greater resources may have a marketplace advantage enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. 40 Table of Contents Additionally, financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions and banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization have larger lending limits and are thereby able to serve the credit needs of larger clients. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services that we offer at more competitive rates and prices. If we are unable to attract and retain banking clients, we may be unable to sustain current loan and deposit levels or increase our loan and deposit levels, and our business, financial condition and future prospects may be negatively affected. Provisions in the Holding Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and statutory provisions could discourage a hostile acquisition of control. The Holding Company’s Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts that certain stockholders might deem to be in their interests or through which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price and that may tend to perpetuate existing management. These provisions include: the classification of the terms of the members of the board of directors; supermajority provisions for the approval of certain business combinations; elimination of cumulative voting by stockholders in the election of directors; certain provisions relating to meetings of stockholders; and provisions allowing the board of directors to consider nonmonetary factors in evaluating a business combination or a tender or exchange offer. The provisions in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requiring a supermajority vote for the approval of certain business combinations and containing restrictions on acquisitions of the Company’s equity securities provide that the supermajority voting requirements or acquisition restrictions do not apply to business combinations or acquisitions meeting specified board of directors’ approval requirements. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, as well as 50,000,000 shares of common stock. These shares could be issued without further stockholder approval on terms or in circumstances that could deter a future takeover attempt. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restricts the ability of an acquirer to vote more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. Federal banking laws contain various restrictions on acquisitions of control of savings associations and their holding companies. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as well as certain provisions of state and federal law, may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a future takeover attempt in which stockholders of the Company otherwise might receive a substantial premium for their shares over then current market prices. We rely, in part, on external financing to fund our operations, and any lack of availability of such funds in the future could adversely impact our business strategies and future prospects. We rely on deposits, FHLB advances and other borrowings to fund our operations. We believe that, although it is not possible to predict future terms and conditions upon renewal, a significant portion of existing non-brokered deposits will remain with CFBank. As a result of CFBank’s Order, we are generally prohibited from using brokered deposits or above-market pricing of deposits to retain deposits or increase funding. CDARS balances are considered brokered deposits by regulation. 41 Table of Contents CFBank’s borrowing capacity from the FHLB decreased in 2011 and 2012 primarily due to increased collateral requirements as a result of the credit performance of CFBank’s loan portfolio, tightening of overall credit policies by the FHLB and a decline in eligible collateral due to a reduction in new loan originations. In April 2012, CFBank was notified by the FHLB that, due to regulatory considerations, CFBank is only eligible for future advances with a maximum maturity of 30 days. CFBank maintains various loans pledged to the FRB as collateral. Based on this collateral, CFBank was eligible to borrow up to $17,750 from the FRB at year-end 2012. At year-end 2012 and 2011, there were no outstanding borrowings with the FRB. In addition, CFBank had a $1.0 million line of credit with one commercial bank at December 31, 2012. There was no outstanding balance on this line of credit. The Holding Company previously issued subordinated debentures in connection with the issuance of trust preferred securities to raise additional capital to fund operations. We may seek additional debt or equity capital in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. However, pursuant to the Holding Company Order, the Holding Company may not incur, issue, renew, or roll over or pay interest or principal on any debt, other than liabilities that are incurred in the ordinary course of business to acquire goods and services, and may not increase any lines of credit or guarantee the debt of any entity without the prior non-objection of the regulators. As a result of these and other factors, our business strategies could be impacted. We may need to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when we need it. Any additional securities issued in a capital raising transaction would dilute your ownership if you did not, or were not permitted to, invest in the additional issuances. The regulators are requiring CFBank to maintain its tier one (core) capital and total risk-based capital ratios at or above 8.0% and 12.0%, respectively. We may at some point need to raise additional capital, through offerings of our common stock, preferred stock, securities convertible into common stock, or rights to acquire such securities or our common stock, to maintain these required capital ratios and to support our operations and any future growth, as well as to protect against the impact of any further deterioration in our loan portfolio. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time and on our financial performance. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, we have additional authorized shares of common stock and preferred stock that we can issue from time to time at the discretion of our Board of Directors, without further action by the stockholders, except where stockholder approval is required by law or Nasdaq requirements. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock, preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to holders of our common stock. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle them to purchase their pro-rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series; therefore, our stockholders may not be permitted to invest in future issuances of our common stock and as a result would be diluted. If we fail to continue to meet all applicable continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq® Capital Market and Nasdaq® determines to delist our common stock, the market liquidity and market price of our common stock could decline, and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively affected. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq® Capital Market. To maintain that listing, we must satisfy minimum financial and other continued listing requirements, primarily related to the price of CFC stock. Delisting from the Nasdaq® Capital Market could adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and the market price of our common stock could decrease. In addition, delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets. Any limitation on market liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock as a result of delisting could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 42 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable 