RISK FACTORS Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as all the other information in this annual report, including, but not limited to, our consolidated financial statements and related notes and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations and the trading prices of our securities could be adversely affected by any of the factors discussed below or other factors. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve uncertainties. Our actual results could differ from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this annual report. See “Forward-Looking Statements.” Forward-looking statements in this section are made only as of the filing date of this annual report. 1. Risks related to our external environment (1) Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by sluggishness in the European, U.S. and Japanese economies Although the uncertainty in the European, U.S. and Japanese economies caused by the financial meltdown is gradually subsiding due to successful fiscal measures taken by numerous governments throughout the globe, private demand is still weak, unemployment rates remain high and there are new concerns related to the financial stability of particular countries, such as Greece. 4 Table of Contents There have been signs of economic recovery in Japan, including an improved business sentiment among large companies for four consecutive quarters as shown in the Bank of Japan’s tankan (quarterly survey of business sentiment). However, funding requirements and capital expenditures of domestic companies still remain sluggish amid concerns about Japan’s future economic growth, share price and exchange rate volatility, and high unemployment rates. Despite our attempts to minimize our exposure to these Japanese and global economic problems through the development and implementation of risk management procedures, continuing weakness in the European, U.S. and Japanese economies could adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (2) Our access to liquidity and capital may be restricted by economic conditions or instability in the financial markets Our primary sources of funds from financing activities are: borrowings from banks and other institutional lenders, funding from capital markets (such as offerings of commercial paper, or CP, medium-term notes, straight bonds, convertible bonds, asset-backed securities and other debt securities) and deposits. Such sources include a significant amount of short-term debt, such as CP and short-term borrowings from various institutional lenders, and long-term debt maturing in the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2011. Some of our committed credit lines require us to comply with financial covenants and maintain certain credit ratings. In addition, some of the nonrecourse loans under which we borrow funds to finance specific projects require early repayment in the event that the relevant projects experience declines in performance. The turmoil in the financial and capital markets led to a reduction in liquidity in Europe, the United States and Japan. Although currently the turmoil in the financial and capital markets has calmed down and liquidity has gradually recovered, there is no guarantee that such problems will not recur in the future. The increased risks to our financial liquidity will increase the possibility that our ability to raise new funds in the market or to renew existing funding sources may become uncertain; we may be exposed to increased funding costs; we may be more subject to volatility in the credit markets; and our securities may not be attractive to investors in the capital markets. If our access to liquidity is restricted, or if we are unable to obtain our required funding at acceptable costs, our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly and adversely affected. We obtain credit ratings from ratings agencies. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for details of our credit ratings. A downgrade in our credit ratings could result in an increase in our interest expenses and could have an adverse effect on our fund-raising ability by increasing costs of issuing CP and corporate debt securities, decreasing investor demand for our securities, increasing our bank borrowing costs or reducing the amount of bank credit available to us. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (3) We may lose market share or suffer reduced interest margins if our competitors compete with us on pricing and other terms We compete with our competitors primarily on the basis of pricing, terms, transaction structure and service quality. Other competitive factors include industry experience and client relationships. Our competitors sometimes seek to aggressively compete on the basis of pricing and terms, without regard to profitability, and we may lose market share if we are unwilling to compete on pricing or terms. Similarly, some of our competitors are larger than we are, have access to capital at a lower cost than we have and may be better able to maintain profits at reduced prices. If we try to compete with our competitors on pricing, terms or service quality, we may experience lower income or reduced profitability. 5 Table of Contents (4) Negative press coverage or rumors could affect our business activities, financial condition, results of operations or share price Our business depends upon the confidence of customers and market participants. Negative press coverage or rumors (including on the Internet) about our activities, our industry or parties with whom we do business could harm our reputation and diminish confidence in our business. If we become aware of such negative press coverage, we typically assess the situation and take action, if appropriate. However, even if we provide appropriate and timely explanations to the press and other interested parties, there is no assurance that we can prevent an adverse effect on our reputation. If we suffer reputational damage as a result of any negative publicity, there is a chance that we will lose customers or business opportunities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cause our share price to decline. (5) Our business may be adversely affected by economic fluctuations and political disturbances We conduct business operations in Japan as well as overseas, including in the United States, Asia, Oceania, the Middle East and Europe. Shifts in commodity market prices and consumer demands, political instability or religious strife in any such region could adversely affect our operations. (6) Enactment of, or changes in, laws, regulations and accounting standards may affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Enactment of, or changes in, laws and regulations may affect the way that we conduct our business, the products or services that we may offer in Japan or overseas as well as our customers, borrowers, invested companies and funding sources. Such enactment or changes are unpredictable and may cause our costs to increase. As a result of such enactment or changes, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Enactment of, or changes in, accounting standards may have a significant effect on how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations, even if our underlying business fundamentals remain the same. As a result of such enactment or changes, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. (7) Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events Our business activities, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by unpredictable events or any continuing effects caused by such events. Unpredictable events include man-made events, such as accidents, war, terrorism and insurgency, and natural events, such as earthquakes, storms, tsunamis, fires and outbreaks of new strains of influenza or other infectious diseases. These events may, among other things, cause unexpectedly large market price movements or an unexpected deterioration of the economic conditions of a country or region. If such a sudden and unpredictable event occurs in an area where we operate, either as a single event or in combination with other events, we may be unable to respond to such changing economic conditions in a timely manner, and our results of operations may be adversely affected as a result. 2. Risks related to our financial affairs (1) Our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses may be insufficient and our credit-related costs might increase We maintain an allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses. This allowance reflects our judgment of the loss potential of these items, after considering factors such as: • the nature and characteristics of obligors; • current economic conditions and trends; 6 Table of Contents • prior charge-off experience; • current delinquencies and delinquency trends; • future cash flows expected to be received from the direct financing leases and loans; and • the value of underlying collateral and guarantees. We cannot be sure that our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses. This allowance may be inadequate due to adverse changes in the Japanese and overseas economies in which we operate, or discrete events that adversely affect specific customers, industries or markets. Recently, the operating results of many companies have deteriorated due to restricted credit availability, which was caused by the meltdown of the global financial and capital markets and the ensuing economic recession. Additionally, a deterioration of the real estate market has increased the risk of delay in payments of principal and interest on loans to real estate-related companies, particularly nonrecourse loans for which cash flow from real estate is the source of repayment. Similarly, the impaired liquidity of the real estate market has caused the vacancy rate of rental properties to rise and rents to fall, resulting in a decline in real estate values. We have endeavored to reduce the amount of outstanding loans to real estate-related companies. However, depending upon future economic condition, we may be required to make additional provisions in the future and our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review—Results of Operations—Year Ended March 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended March 31, 2009—Details of Operating Results—Revenues, New Business Volumes and Investments—Installment loans and investment securities—Asset quality of our owned installment loans” for details of our additional provisions for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses. In order to enhance our collections from debtors, we may forbear from exercising some or all of our rights as a creditor against companies that are unable to fulfill their repayment obligations, and we may forgive loans or extend additional loans to such companies. Furthermore, if economic or market conditions are adverse, the value of underlying collateral and guarantees may decline. As a result, our credit-related costs might increase. If we need to increase our allowance for doubtful receivables on direct financing leases and probable loan losses, or if our credit-related costs increase to cover these changes or events, our results of operations could be adversely affected. (2) We may suffer losses on our investment portfolio We hold investments in debt and equity securities, funds, ships, aircraft and real estate in Japan, the United States and other regions. The market values of our investment assets are volatile and may decline substantially in the current year or future years. The uncertainty in the European, U.S. and Japanese financial and capital markets has led to significant reductions in the liquidity of securities, greater volatility, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price transparency. In addition, the markets for ships, aircraft and real estate have deteriorated due to economic uncertainty. Although the economic uncertainty in Europe, the United States and Japan has gradually subsided, a recurrence of adverse market conditions could cause us to suffer unexpected losses from declines in the fair market value of securities, funds, ships, aircraft and real estate. We record losses from declines in the fair market value of such assets based on the fair market value as of the fiscal year end in accordance with applicable accounting principles. Due to a decline in liquidity, or to the absence of liquidity, there is no assurance that we would be able to sell any such investments at their recorded price. (3) Changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates could adversely affect our assets and our financial condition and results of operations Our business activities are subject to risks relating to changes in market interest rates and currency exchange rates in Japan and overseas. Although we conduct asset-liability management (“ALM”), fixed and variable 7 Table of Contents interest rates and terms of fixed-rate assets and liabilities are not uniform among our assets and liabilities. As such, increases or decreases in market interest rates or changes in the yield curve could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the value of our assets may move independently of market interest rates. Where funds procurement costs are increasing due to a significant increase in market interest rates or the perception that an increase may occur, financing lease terms and loan interest rates for new transactions may diverge from the trend in market interest rates. Furthermore, changes in market interest rates could have an adverse effect on the credit quality of our assets and our asset structure. With respect to our floating-rate loan assets, if market interest rates increase, the repayment burdens of our customers may also increase, which could adversely affect the financial condition of such customers and their ability to repay their obligations to us, possibly resulting in defaults. Alternatively, a decline in interest rates could result in increased prepayments of loans and a decrease in our assets. We have subsidiaries and affiliates in the United States and other countries outside of Japan. Although we generally attempt to hedge foreign exchange risks that arise from these business operations through matched funding, foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and other hedging instruments, not all of our foreign exchange risks are perfectly hedged. Similarly, any retained earnings accumulated in foreign currencies at our overseas subsidiaries are also subject to exchange risks. As a result, a significant change in currency exchange rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. (4) Our use of derivatives to manage risk and reduce price fluctuations in our investment portfolio may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We utilize derivative instruments to reduce investment portfolio price fluctuations, and to manage interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk. However, we may not be able to successfully manage our risks through the use of derivatives. Counterparties may fail to honor the terms of their derivatives contracts with us. Alternatively, our ability to enter into derivative transactions may be adversely affected if our credit ratings are downgraded. We may also suffer losses from trading activities, a part of which includes the use of derivative instruments. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. For a discussion of derivative financial instruments and hedging, see Note 28 in “Item 18. Financial Statements.” Our use of these derivatives may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 3. Risks related to our business overall (1) We may be exposed to increased risks as we expand or reduce the range of our products and services, or acquire companies or assets As we have proactively expanded the range of our product sales and services in Japan and overseas beyond our traditional businesses, we are exposed to new and increasingly complex risks, some or all of which we may be unable to control, and we may incur substantial losses. In addition, our efforts to offer new products and services may not achieve the expected results if business opportunities do not increase as expected or if competitive pressures undermine the profitability of the available opportunities. Restructuring of, or withdrawal from, businesses in which we engage could harm our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that the price we pay for acquisitions will be fair and appropriate. If the results of operations of acquired companies are lower than what we expected at the times we made the acquisitions, our acquisitions could result in large future write-downs of goodwill and other assets. 8 Table of Contents In recent years, the contribution from consolidated subsidiaries and equity method affiliates to our consolidated results of operations has increased and has been an important component of our income. There can be no assurance that this contribution will be maintained. While we will continue to review and selectively pursue investment opportunities, there can be no assurance that we will continue to identify attractive opportunities, or that investments will be as profitable as we originally expected. Our subsidiaries and affiliates have a wide range of business operations, including operations that are very different from financial services, our core business. Failure to manage investee companies effectively could result in financial losses as well as losses of future business opportunities. In addition, we may not be able to sell or otherwise dispose of investments at times or prices we initially expected. We may also need to provide financial support, including credit support or equity investments, to some investee companies if their financial condition deteriorates. We may lose key personnel in investee companies if such personnel are not satisfied with our management. In the event that any subsidiary or affiliate to which we transfer our personnel to serve as directors or officers is implicated in a problem of significant public concern, our reputation may be adversely affected irrespective of whether such persons perform their obligations appropriately. (2) Changes in the legal or financial stability of, or cultural differences with, any counterparties with whom we enter into joint ventures or alliances could adversely affect our results of operations We operate joint ventures and enter into alliances with foreign and domestic counterparties, and the success of these operations is often dependent upon the financial and legal stability of these counterparties. If one of the counterparties with whom we operate a joint venture or have a business alliance suffers a decline in its financial condition for any reason, or is subject to instability because of a change of the laws governing its operations after we have invested in the joint venture or the business alliance and begun operations, we may not be able to successfully operate the joint venture or alliance, or we may be required to pay in additional capital or close the operations altogether. Likewise, significant differences in corporate culture between us and these partners may come to light, and may result in significant changes to the assumptions that we made when we decided to begin the operations. If our alliance counterparties are unable to perform as expected, or if any unexpected events relating to the alliances shall occur, then we may not be able to continue those alliances successfully. Our inability to successfully operate joint ventures or alliances may adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. (3) Outsourcing may adversely affect our business activities or reputation We outsource some of our business functions including the management and development of our main information technology system, the maintenance of our leasing assets and the management and safekeeping of our contracts. If any of our outsourcing vendors are not able to conduct the entrusted business appropriately, whether due to their financial distress, the exposure of misconduct, their lack of ability, the leak or destruction of confidential or personal information owned or held by us or for any other reason, our business activities or reputation may be adversely affected. (4) We face various operational risks Our businesses entail many types of operational risks. Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequacies in, or failures of, internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. Examples of operational risk include inappropriate sales practices, the divulging of confidential or personal information, inadequate internal communication of necessary information, misconduct of officers, employees, agents, franchisees, trading associates or third parties, errors in the settlement of accounts, computer system security failures, breaking and entering and conflicts with employees concerning labor and workplace management. Our management attempts to control operational risk and maintain it at a level that we believe is appropriate. Notwithstanding our control measures, operational risk is part of the business environment in which we operate, and we may incur losses at any time due to this risk. Even if we do not incur direct pecuniary loss, our reputation may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our main operational risks are as follows: (i) A failure to comply with regulations to which our businesses are subject could result in sanctions or penalties, harm our reputation and adversely affect our business activities, financial condition and results of operations Our business and employees in Japan are subject to laws, as well as regulatory oversight of government authorities who implement those laws, relating to the various fields in which we operate. This includes laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions such as the Moneylending Business Act, the Installment Sales Act, the Insurance Business Act, the Banking Act, the Trust Business Act, the Building Lots and Buildings Transaction Business Act and the Building Standards Act, as well as general laws applicable to our business activities such as the Companies Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, the Act on Prohibition of Private Monopolization and Maintenance of Fair Trade and the Act on the Protection of Personal Information. Our businesses outside of Japan are also subject to the laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they operate and are subject to oversight by the regulatory authorities of those jurisdictions. For example, in addition to being subject to U.S. securities laws, we are also prohibited or otherwise restricted by U.S. law from entering into any transactions with countries listed as state sponsors of terrorism. Our compliance and legal risk management structures are designed to prevent violations of such laws and regulations, but they may not be effective in preventing all future violations. We engage in a wide range of businesses and may expand into new businesses through our acquisition activities. We implement various internal control measures for our businesses; however, with the expansion of our operations, these controls may not function adequately. In such cases, we may be subject to sanctions or penalties, and our reputation may be adversely affected. Future violations of laws and regulations could result in regulatory action and harm our reputation, and our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if there are no violations of laws, if we are investigated by government authorities and the investigation becomes publicly known, our reputation may be harmed and our business activities may be adversely affected. (ii) Failures in our computer and other information systems could hinder our operations and damage our reputation and relationships with customers We utilize computer systems and other information systems for financial transactions, personal information management, business monitoring and processing and as part of our business decision-making and risk management activities. We also offer data center services for our customers. System shutdowns, malfunctions or failures, the mishandling of data or fraudulent acts by employees or third parties, or infection by a computer virus could have adverse effects on our operations, for example by causing delay in the receipt and payment of funds, the leak or destruction of confidential or personal information, the generation of errors in information used for business decision-making and risk management, and the suspension of other services provided to our customers. In such event, our liquidity could be adversely affected. Alternatively, the liquidity of customers who rely on us for financing or payment or who utilize our data center services could be adversely affected, and our relationships with such customers could also be adversely affected. The occurrence of any of these or any other disruptions could result in our being sued or subject to administrative penalty, or our reputation or credibility could be adversely affected. Our information system equipment could suffer damage from a large-scale natural disaster or from terrorism. Since information systems serve an increasingly important role in business activities, there is an increasing risk of stoppage of the network or information systems due to disaster or terrorism. If networks or information systems fail, we could experience interruption of business activity, delay in payment or sales, or substantial costs for recovery of functionality. 10 Table of Contents (iii) We may not be able to hire or retain human resources to achieve our strategic goals Our businesses require a considerable investment in human resources and the retention of such resources in order to successfully compete in markets in Japan and overseas. Many of our businesses require employment of talented individuals who have experience and knowledge in the financial field. If we cannot develop, hire or retain the necessary human resources, or if such personnel resign, we may not be able to achieve our strategic goals. (5) The departure of senior management could adversely affect us Our continued success relies significantly on the ability and skills of our senior management. The departure of current senior management could have an adverse effect on our business activities, financial condition and results of operations. (6) If our independent registered public accounting firm finds that our internal controls over financial reporting are insufficient, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, adversely affecting our share price, financial condition and reputation The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring each SEC-registered foreign private issuer to include in its Annual Report on Form 20-F a report containing an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the company’s independent registered public accounting firm must provide an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements are reflected in our Annual Reports filed on Form 20-F for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007 and thereafter. Similarly, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act was enacted in June 2006 in Japan. Article 24-4-4 thereof requires that a listed company shall submit its internal control report with an audit certificate issued by an independent registered public accounting firm together with its annual securities report. These requirements are applicable to annual securities reports issued for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Pursuant to the provisions of the “Cabinet Office Ordinance on the System for Ensuring Appropriateness of Statements on Finance and Accounting and Other Information” (2007, No. 62) (the “Cabinet Office Ordinance”), our internal control reports required under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act are prepared in conformity with the requirements under U.S. accounting standards for the terms, form and preparation method of internal control reports and by including additional information regarding significant differences between the reports prepared in accordance with Japanese accounting standards. Although we have established and assessed our internal controls over financial reporting in a manner intended to ensure compliance with the requirements of various laws and regulations, in future periods our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting and may issue a report that our internal controls over financial reporting are ineffective. These possible outcomes could have a negative impact on our share price, reputation, business activities, financial condition or results of operations due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. (7) Our risk management may not be effective We continuously seek to improve our risk management function. However, due to the rapid expansion of our business or significant changes in the business environment, our risk management may not be effective in some cases. We operate in a wide variety of businesses and geographic areas and if we are unable to effectively manage new or existing risks, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents 4. Risks related to specific businesses (1) Our real estate-related operations expose us to various risks Our real estate-related operations include real estate finance and real estate business. Real estate finance is comprised of nonrecourse loans for which cash flow from real estate is the source of repayment, and underwriting specified bonds that are issued by special purpose entities (SPEs), which are secured by real estate. Our real estate business comprises the development and lease of office buildings, rental housing, commercial facilities and logistics warehouses; the construction and sale of condominiums; asset management services for real estate investment trusts (REITs); and real estate investment advisory business. These operations are associated with the following risks: (a) Risks relating to real estate finance Our real estate finance business is suffering due to severe real estate market conditions. A continuation of the present circumstances or further deterioration of real estate market conditions may decrease the estimated collectable amount and the value of real estate held as collateral, which could require us to increase our provisions for doubtful receivables and probable loan losses or purchase the senior portion of debt to protect subordinated debt held by us. If the stagnation of the real estate market continues, the loss on the collection of loans through the sales of the real estate may exceed the amount that we initially estimated. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (b) Risks relating to development and lease of real estate Our real estate development business is subject to various risks. For example, if we are required to amend initial real estate development plans after obtaining relevant government approvals and licenses as a result of discussions with residents neighboring the project site or otherwise, our reputation as a real estate developer may suffer. Also, if any of our peer companies are reported to have engaged in misconduct in real estate development projects, the overall creditability of the real estate market could suffer and lead to shifts in consumer preferences. Sales volumes could be adversely affected due to bankruptcy, changes in financial condition or misconduct of our counterparties to joint ventures. These factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As real estate market conditions have deteriorated, vacancy rates have risen and rents have dropped. If such trends continue, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We invest in the acquisition of real estate and real estate development projects through SPEs. If any such SPE has difficulty repaying a third party, we may contribute additional funds or loans for such repayment. (c) Risks relating to warranty against defects When we commence a building construction project, we try to obtain indemnity against any breach of contract or defect of property from the contractor. Also, when we purchase a property, we try to obtain indemnity from the seller to cover losses and expenses caused by any defects of geological condition, building structure or material in relation to such property. If construction work is postponed or cancelled due to the contractor’s circumstances, or if there is any defect in a building or facility sold or leased by us, and indemnity is not provided by the contractor or seller or if the indemnity provided is insufficient due to a deterioration of the indemnitor’s financial condition, we may be required to indemnify the tenant or purchaser and thereby incur losses. Even if we do not have to indemnify the tenant or purchaser, we may incur additional costs, including additional construction costs, to complete or operate property causing our expenditures to exceed our initial budget. In addition, even if we do not incur financial loss, property defects may adversely affect our reputation due to our involvement as the seller, owner or original developer. 12 Table of Contents (d) Risks relating to amendments to or changes in real estate-related laws and regulations We may have latent liabilities for soil contamination cleanup costs related to certain of our real estate acquisitions. Before the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act came into effect in February 2003, we did not, at the time of acquisition, investigate land (including land provided as loan collateral) that had been used as a factory site or operating facility in which hazardous materials were used or that otherwise could cause health problems due to soil contamination. If the land is polluted and it is necessary to take countermeasures under the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act, this could adversely affect the value of the land or the amounts collectable on foreclosure from land held as collateral. Although we have conducted investigations at the time of acquisition with respect to land acquired after the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act came into effect, our investigations may have failed to identify risk and a subsequent determination that such land is polluted may have the same adverse consequences. If the Building Standards Act, the City Planning Act or any other property-related laws and regulations are amended, we may incur additional responsibilities and our expenses may increase. (e) Risks relating to casualty insurance coverage We generally carry comprehensive property and casualty insurance covering our real estate investments acquired as part of our real estate business, with insured limits that we believe are adequate and appropriate in light of anticipated losses. However, certain types of losses, such as losses caused by wars, acts of terrorism, willful acts or gross negligence, are uninsurable. In addition, we do not usually carry insurance for damages caused by natural disasters such as earthquakes or typhoons because insurance coverage for such damages is limited and the insurance premiums are relatively expensive. In the event that our real estate investments suffer uninsured losses, our investment balances in and revenues from such investments could be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that a building or real estate development project in which we have invested is destroyed or otherwise rendered unusable, we would likely remain liable for indebtedness and other financial obligations relating to the relevant property. (2) We may suffer losses if we are unable to remarket leased equipment returned to us We lease equipment to customers under direct financing leases and operating leases. We estimate the residual value at the time of contract and may suffer losses if we are unable to sell or re-lease the equipment at the end of the leasing period for the residual value that we estimated at the beginning of the lease. This risk is particularly significant for operating leases. Our estimates of the residual value of equipment are based on current market values of used equipment and assumptions about when and to what extent the equipment will become obsolete; however, we may need to recognize additional valuation losses if our estimates differ from actual trends in equipment valuation and the secondhand market. (3) Leasing equipment distributors’ inappropriate sales activity may increase the number of customer claims against us and adversely affect our reputation and business performance Our leasing business and reputation could be affected by the behavior of individual distributors of equipment. In 2005, inappropriate sales activity by equipment distributors was a serious problem in the telephone equipment leasing industry, and we received an increased number of customer claims and inquiries. In response to the industry trend, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry altered its position regarding the application of the “the Order for Enforcement of the Act on Specified Commercial Transactions” in 2005 and has provided guidance to firms in the related industries on compliance measures. If the same problems recur, whether in relation to telephone equipment or other types of equipment leased by us, leasing contracts may be cancelled before maturity, adversely affecting our business performance, and our reputation may suffer. The measures that we have taken or may take in the future to resolve and address these problems may cause leasing business costs to increase and leasing transactions to decline. 13 Table of Contents (4) Increased competition or regulatory changes in entertainment-related industries could weaken the financial condition of companies to which we provide credit, which may adversely affect their ability to repay us We provide credit to companies in entertainment-related industries, such as pachinko hall operators, primarily through direct financing leases and installment loans. Even though we have accumulated credit know-how from past experience and obtain collateral that we consider adequate after thorough examination of the risks presented by these industries, our business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by an intensification of competition or substantial changes in the regulation of these industries, which may adversely affect the financial condition and credit of our customers in these industries. (5) Accidents in our environment-related business could damage our reputation and cause us to incur financial losses We began operations of an industrial waste disposal facility through ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation in June 2006 as a Private Finance Initiative, or PFI, under contract with Saitama prefecture in Yorii-machi, Saitama. In addition, we acquired Kanematsu Environmental Corporation (now Funabashi Environmental Corporation) in March 2008 to develop an industrial waste disposal business mainly in Funabashi, Chiba. In order to minimize the risk of emitting environmental pollutants, ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation utilizes advanced waste disposal techniques. ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation has contracted with the waste disposal specialist firm that constructed the facility to serve as operator of the facility. The Funabashi Environmental Corporation has established a facility that minimizes the risk of emitting environmental pollutants. Although we try to reduce the risks related to operating our industrial waste disposal business, environmental pollution could occur due to an operational error or defect in the disposal facility. To protect against a variety of such accident risks, ORIX Environmental Resources Management Corporation has ensured that the relevant operator bears responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the facility under its operating agreement and responsibility for defects in the facility under the design and construction contracts. However, in the event that the financial condition of the operator has deteriorated to the point that it cannot perform its contractual obligations or indemnify us for losses, we will be required to bear such losses. Furthermore, we will be responsible for any accident occurring by reason of any event other than those for which the operator is responsible by contract. If such an accident occurs, we will be required to incur loss. Even if we do not incur any direct financial loss, our reputation could be adversely affected. (6) Our medical business and nursing care business expose us to various risks We rent medical instruments to customers. We contract for the inspection of such medical instruments with professionals designated by the manufacturers. The manufacturers are responsible for any injuries or damages caused by defects in such medical instruments. However, as a lessor, we also have potential obligations for such defects. Further, even if there is no pecuniary liability, our reputation could be adversely affected by product defects. We provide housing and elderly care services to senior citizens, including through the operation of at-home nursing care and nursing home facilities. If a nursing service accident occurs, we could be liable for damages and our reputation could be adversely affected. In addition, if the nursing care insurance system is modified to reduce public financial support and the economic burden on the user is thereby increased, the nursing market could shrink and our results of operations could be adversely affected. (7) If our services to customers are insufficient, we may be obligated to compensate our customers We provide M&A and financial advisory and consulting services to our customers, including through our subsidiaries ORIX M&A Solutions Corporation and Houlihan Lokey Howard & Zukin (“Houlihan Lokey”). If such services are insufficient and our customers suffer losses as a consequence, we may be obligated to compensate our customers for those losses. 14 Table of Contents We also provide various services such as maintenance services for leasing assets and environment-related solution services, the operation of hotels, golf courses and training facilities for which we are expected to meet our customer’s expectations and standards of value applicable to such high value-added services. Although we strive to provide high quality services, our reputation may be harmed and our business activities may be adversely affected if we fail to meet customer expectations or maintain service quality. If such services are insufficient and our customers suffer losses as a consequence, we may be obligated to compensate our customers for those losses. (8) Our life insurance subsidiary is subject to risks that are specific to its business We are exposed to the risk of unpredictable and potentially substantial increases in insurance payments for deaths and hospital benefits, in relation to the business of ORIX Life Insurance Corporation, or ORIX Life Insurance. ORIX Life Insurance may incur valuation losses or losses on sales if the value of securities or real estate that it purchases for asset management purposes decreases. It is also subject to strict regulatory oversight, which includes the maintenance of certain specified capital and liability reserve requirements. If ORIX Life Insurance suffers valuation or other losses that affect its ability to maintain its regulatory capital or liability reserve requirements, or changes in regulations in which require ORIX Life Insurance to increase its capital or liability reserves, we may be required to provide financial support through capital contributions. In addition, if ORIX Life Insurance fails to conduct reasonable asset liability management, or ALM, to appropriately manage risks and returns on investment assets and underwriting risks on insurance policy benefits, its financial condition and results of operations may suffer. ORIX Life Insurance is required to make contributions to the Life Insurance Policyholders Protection Corporation of Japan, or the PPC. The PPC was established in 1998 to provide financial support to insolvent life insurance companies. All life insurers in Japan, including ORIX Life Insurance, are members of the PPC and are required to make contributions to the PPC based on their respective share of insurance premiums and policy reserves within the industry. Because a number of life insurers have become insolvent since 1998, the PPC’s financial resources have been depleted by financial support provided to those companies. If there are further bankruptcies of life insurers, other members of the PPC, including ORIX Life Insurance, may be required to make additional contributions to the PPC. In such an event, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. (9) If the reputation of our professional baseball team declines, our share price, business activities, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected We own and manage a professional baseball team in Japan, the ORIX Buffaloes. Management of a professional baseball team in Japan, due to its public nature, requires us to consider the various social effects that it may have and the reputation of the team. If the reputation of the baseball team declines, our business activities, financial condition, results of operations and our share price could be adversely affected as a consequence. (10) Ship brokerage exposes us to market and credit risks We operate a ship brokerage business in which we simultaneously place orders for new ships with shipbuilders and enter into purchase agreements with our customers who purchase the ships for use upon completion. As the process of shipbuilding takes several years from the placement of an order to delivery of the ship, if a purchasing customer defaults under its purchase agreement due to a decline in market conditions or deterioration of its cash flow, we are not excused from our obligation to purchase the ship upon completion. Also, if a shipbuilder becomes unable to complete and deliver a ship for financial or other reasons, we will be obliged to repay the deposit received from the customer regardless of whether or not the advance was repaid by the shipbuilder. Any of these above events may adversely affect our results of operation. 15 Table of Contents 5. Risks related to holding or trading our Shares and ADRs (1) Dispositions of Shares may adversely affect market prices for the Shares A few of our shareholders hold more than five percent of the total number of outstanding Shares. These shareholders may, for strategic or investment reasons, decide to reduce their shareholdings in ORIX. Dispositions of Shares, particularly dispositions of large numbers of Shares by major shareholders, may adversely affect market prices for the Shares. For information on major shareholders, see “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions.” A large portion of our Shares are held by investors outside Japan. Due to changes in the global economy or political conditions, investors outside Japan have reduced and may continue to reduce their investments in Japanese stocks. Further reduction in Japanese stock investment by such investors may adversely affect the market price of our Shares. (2) Rights of shareholders under Japanese law may be different from those under the laws of other jurisdictions Our Articles of Incorporation, the regulations of our board of directors and the Companies Act govern our corporate affairs. Legal principles relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, directors’ and officers’ fiduciary duties and shareholders’ rights are different from those that would apply if we were incorporated elsewhere. Shareholders’ rights under Japanese law are different in some respects from shareholders’ rights under the laws of jurisdictions within the United States and other countries. You may have more difficulty in asserting your rights as a shareholder than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in a jurisdiction outside Japan. For a detailed discussion of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act and our Articles of Incorporation, see “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation.” (3) It may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors or executive officers, or to enforce against ORIX or those persons judgments obtained in U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States ORIX is a joint stock company incorporated in Japan. Most or all of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the United States. Although some of ORIX’s subsidiaries have substantial assets in the United States, substantially all of ORIX’s assets and the assets of ORIX’s directors and executive officers are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon ORIX or ORIX’s directors and executive officers or to enforce against ORIX or those persons, in U.S. courts, judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. ORIX has been advised by its Japanese counsel that there is doubt, in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of U.S. courts, as to the enforceability in Japan of civil liabilities based solely on U.S. securities laws. A Japanese court may refuse to allow an original action based on U.S. securities laws. The United States and Japan do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil or commercial matters. Therefore, if you obtain a civil judgment by a U.S. court, you will not necessarily be able to enforce such judgment directly in Japan. (4) We expect to be a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors We expect to be a passive foreign investment company under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code because of the composition of our assets and the nature of our income. Assuming this is the case, U.S. investors in our Shares or ADSs will be subject to special rules of taxation in respect of certain dividends or gain on such Shares or ADSs, including the effective treatment of gains realized on the disposition of, and certain dividends received on, the 16 Table of Contents Shares or ADSs as ordinary income earned pro rata over a U.S. investor’s holding period for such Shares or ADSs, taxed at the maximum rate applicable during the years in which such income is treated as earned, and subject to interest charges for a deemed deferral benefit. In addition, the favorable rates of tax applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate U.S. investors would not be available. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Taxation.” Investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding all aspects of the income tax consequences of investing in our Shares or ADSs. (5) If you hold fewer than 10 Shares, you will not have all the rights of shareholders with 10 or more Shares One “unit” of the Shares is comprised of 10 Shares. Each unit of the Shares has one vote. A holder who owns Shares other than in multiples of 10, will own less than a whole unit (i.e., for the portion constituting fewer than 10 Shares.) The Companies Act imposes significant restrictions on the rights of holders of shares constituting less than a whole unit, which include restrictions on the right to vote. Under the unit share system, a holder of Shares constituting less than a unit has the right to require ORIX to purchase its Shares and the right to require ORIX to sell it additional Shares to create a whole unit of 10 Shares. However, a holder of ADRs is not permitted to withdraw underlying Shares representing less than one unit, which is equivalent to 20 ADSs, and, as a practical matter, is unable to require ORIX to purchase those underlying Shares. The unit share system, however, does not affect the transferability of ADSs, which may be transferred in lots of any size. (6) Foreign exchange fluctuations may affect the value of our securities and dividends Market prices for our ADSs may decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. In addition, the dollar amount of cash dividends or other cash payments made to holders of ADSs will decline if the value of the yen declines against the dollar. (7) A holder of ADRs has fewer rights than a shareholder and must act through the depositary to exercise those rights The rights of shareholders under Japanese law to take various actions, including voting their shares, receiving dividends and distributions, bringing derivative actions, examining a company’s accounting books and records and exercising dissenters’ rights are available only to holders of record on a company’s register of shareholders. The Shares represented by our ADSs are registered in the name of a nominee of the depositary, through its custodian agent. Only the depositary is able to exercise those rights in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary will make efforts to vote the Shares represented by our ADSs as instructed by the holders of the ADRs representing such ADSs and will pay to those holders the dividends and distributions collected from us. However, a holder of ADRs will not be able to directly bring a derivative action, examine our accounting books and exercise dissenters’ rights through the depositary unless the depositary specifically undertakes to exercise those rights and is indemnified to its satisfaction by the holder for doing so. 