Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following material risk factors carefully before deciding to invest in the Company’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, which the Company currently deems not material or which are similar to those faced by other companies in the Company’s industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impact the Company’s business operations. If any of the events described below occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of the Company’s common stock may decline, in which case the value of your investment may decline as well. References herein to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Capital Bank Corporation, a company incorporated in North Carolina, and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Changes in local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce our net income and growth. Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on local economic conditions in Central and Western North Carolina. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Our operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in our market areas could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: · customers may not want or need our products or services; · borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; · the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and · the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. - 11 - - Index Any of the latter three scenarios could require us to charge-off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce our net income. For an analysis of our recent charge off experience, please refer to the “Assets” section in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Wake, Granville, Lee, Chatham, Alamance, Guilford, Buncombe and Catawba Counties, North Carolina, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Unfavorable economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties may result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution that is able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Weakness in the markets for residential or commercial real estate could reduce our net income and profitability. Fiscal 2007 was highlighted by volatility in the financial markets associated with subprime mortgages, including adverse impacts on credit quality and liquidity within the financial markets. The volatility has been exacerbated by a general decline in the real estate and housing market along with significant mortgage loan related losses reported by many other financial institutions. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in real estate values. Decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans and investments. If poor economic conditions result in decreased demand for real estate loans, our net income and profits may decline. The declines in home prices in the markets we serve, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolio of loans related to residential real estate construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with an economic recession and associated rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected. Additionally, recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact upon our profitability. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 13.4% of our total loans were secured by real estate. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate spreads, meaning the difference between interest rates earned on loans and investments and the interest rates paid on deposits and borrowings, could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, affect interest income and interest expense. We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on our profitability. - 12 - - Index We are exposed to risks in connection with the loans we make. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. Furthermore, the decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. No assurance can be given that recent market conditions will not result in our need to increase loan loss reserves or charge-off a higher percentage of loans, thereby reducing net income. We compete with larger companies for business. The banking and financial services business in our market areas continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: • changes in regulations; • changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and non-bank financial services providers, many of which have substantially greater resources, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. Our trading volume has been low compared with larger banks. The trading volume our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been comparable to other similarly-sized banks. Nevertheless, this trading is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in our common stock may be limited in scope relative to other companies. We depend heavily on our key management personnel. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a small- to mid-size bank. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. We expect to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that include incentive-based compensation and the opportunity to join in the rewarding work of building a growing bank. Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. - 13 - - Index Government regulations may prevent or impact our ability to pay dividends, engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the North Carolina State Banking Commission. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you, our investors, by restricting certain of our activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to our shareholders; • possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; • our desired investments; • loans and interest rates on loans; • interest rates paid on our deposits; • the possible expansion of our branch offices; and/or • our ability to provide securities or other services. We are subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation, and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements including those imposed by the SEC may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. There are potential risks associated with future acquisitions and expansions. We intend to continue to explore expanding our branch system through selective acquisitions of existing banks or bank branches in the Research Triangle area and other North Carolina markets. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate, future acquisitions, or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential acquisitions that would bolster our ability to cater to the small business, individual and residential lending markets in North Carolina. In attempting to make such acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. In addition, since the consideration for an acquired bank or branch may involve cash, notes or the issuance of shares of common stock, existing shareholders could experience dilution in the value of their shares of our common stock in connection with such acquisitions. Any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations or overall financial condition. In addition, we may expand our branch network through de novo branches in existing or new markets. These de novo branches may have expenses in excess of revenues for varying periods after opening, which could decrease our reported earnings. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. - 14 - - Index We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding management’s required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, the members of our Board of Directors, members of the Audit or Compensation/Human Resources Committees, our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and certain other of our executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, our ability to attract and retain executive officers and qualified Board and committee members could be more difficult. In addition, it may become more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. As described below, we have issued $30.9 million of subordinated debentures in connection with three trust preferred securities issuances by the Trusts. We conditionally guarantee payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities. Our subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach of the security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions or security breaches or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. - 15 - - Index Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage accounts or mutual funds. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 