Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our Securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before you decide to invest in our Securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business could be seriously harmed. In such case, the value of your investment may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should not invest in our Securities unless you can afford the loss of your entire investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, working capital deficit, and Stockholders’ deficit. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve profitability or have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy. At December 31, 2009, we had a working capital deficit of approximately ($9.4) million and a stockholders’ deficit of approximately ($7.3) million. Although we have reduced our losses, we continue to sustain losses from operations and for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 we incurred net losses applicable to Common Stockholders of approximately ($10.2) million, ($16.2) million, and ($13.2) million, respectively. In addition, we did not generate positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. We may not be able to generate profits in the future and may not be able to support our operations or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy, requiring us to raise funds from capital markets, consequently, diluting our common stock. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ deficit. In light of our recurring losses, accumulated deficit and cash flow difficulties, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. Our Carrier revenue performance is subject to both internal and external influences which have and may continue to negatively impact our revenues. During 2009, the Company's Carrier revenue was negatively impacted by seasonal and economic market fluctuations and a decline in the overall market which was influenced by the general economic decline. In addition, resources that we would otherwise have dedicated to revenue growth were constrained by factors including our dedication of significant resources to restructuring and exiting the Consumer segment, and we were adversely affected by limits on our ability provide extended payment terms to larger customers. We anticipate that these revenue growth constraints will be eased as the general economic conditions improve, and completion of our exit from the Consumer segment is expected to enable us to dedicate resources to increasing Carrier and Corporate revenue streams. There is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to reverse recent reductions in revenue generation, and if we are unable to do so, our profitability will be limited and the results of our operations will be adversely affected. Our business is capital intensive, and we do not currently generate sufficient revenues to offset our operating expenses. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, as and when required, we may have to significantly curtail or possibly terminate our operations. We will require substantial future capital in order to continue to fund our operating expenses and to otherwise execute our business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or generate sales revenue sufficient to sustain our operations, as needed, we could be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations, including laying-off employees, recording asset impairment write-downs and other measures. Additional capital may not be available to us when needed, or on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Historically we have funded our working capital requirements through the sale of our equity. The use of our equity to fund operations is dilutive to the equity ownership of our securities by our existing stockholders. Unless we are able to generate substantial revenues to fund our operating expenses, we will be required to continue to fund operations through the sale of our equity. In addition, limited cash resources may restrict our ability to sell those carrier services that require us to purchase termination capacity on shorter payment terms that the terms under which we are able sell to our customers. This could limit our ability to grow our revenues and/or margins, or limit our ability to achieve our revenue and/or margin targets. We have historically relied on our officers and directors to loan us funds to sustain our operations. If such loans are not available if and when we require them in the future, we may have insufficient capital to operate. We may also be required to repay loans, including those from our affiliates, from our accounts receivable. Historically, we have relied upon loans from certain of our officers and directors to sustain our operations. As of December 31, 2009 we owed Marvin Rosen and Philip D. Turits, executive officers and directors of the Company, an aggregate of $1,140,030. In addition, the loans to our affiliates, as well as loans we have received from others, are collateralized by a pari passu security interest in all of our accounts receivable. In the event that the funds from this Offering are insufficient to satisfy our operating needs, and we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations for such purposes, we may require further loans from our affiliates. There is no assurance that our affiliates will be able to provide us with additional capital as and when we require it in the future, and, if they are unable to do so, we may have insufficient funds with which to sustain operations. In addition, the majority of the loans from our affiliates are demand loans and if we are not able to repay such loans upon demand, we may lose substantial accounts receivable in the event the lenders resort to the collateral security for repayment of their loans. If we are unable to manage our growth or implement our expansion strategy, we may increase our costs without increasing our revenues. We may not be able to expand our product offerings, our client base and markets, or implement the other features of our business strategy at the rate or to the extent presently planned. Our projected growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational, and financial resources and may increase our costs. If we are unable to successfully manage our future growth, establish, and continue to upgrade our operating and financial control systems, recruit and hire necessary personnel or effectively manage unexpected expansion difficulties, we may not be able to maximize revenues or profitability The success of our growth is dependent upon market developments and traffic patterns, which will lead us to make expenditures that may not result in increased revenues. Our purchase of network equipment and software will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenue growth and market developments. As we expand our network, we will be required to make significant capital expenditures, including the purchase of additional network equipment and software, and to add additional employees. To a lesser extent our fixed costs will also increase from the ownership and maintenance of a greater amount of network equipment including our Softswitch, gateways, routers, and other related systems. If our traffic volume were to decrease, or fail to increase to the extent expected or necessary to make efficient use of our network, our costs as a percentage of revenues would increase significantly. We may be unable to adapt to rapid technology trends and evolving industry standards, which could lead to our products becoming obsolete. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes due to technology innovation, evolving industry standards, and frequent new service and product introductions. New services and products based on new technologies or new industry standards expose us to risks of technical or product obsolescence. We will need to use technologies effectively, continue to develop our technical expertise and enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner to compete successfully in this industry. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively, developing new products, or enhancing existing products and services in a timely manner or that any new technologies or enhancements used by us or offered to our customers will achieve market acceptance. Some of our services are dependent upon multiple service platforms, network elements, and back-office systems that are reliant on third party providers. We have deployed back-office systems and services platforms that enable us to offer our customers a wide-array of services and features. Sophisticated back office information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, bill clients, provision client orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. Some of these systems are dependent upon license agreements with third party vendors. These third party vendors may cancel or refuse to renew some of these agreements, and the cancellation or non-renewal of these agreements may harm our ability to bill and provide services efficiently. We may be impacted by litigation regarding patent infringement to which we were not a party. On March 8, 2007, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia ruled that Vonage Holdings had infringed on three patents held by Verizon Communications, and ordered Vonage to pay Verizon $58 million plus a future royalty payment equal to 5.5% of Vonage’s customer sales. The patents related in part to technologies used to connect Internet telephone use to the traditional telephone network. Vonage appealed the decision, but terminated its appeals options in November 2007, when it agreed to pay Verizon approximately $120 million in settlement. The future impact, if any, of this litigation on other VoIP service providers, including us, is unclear. If we were restricted from using certain VoIP technologies, it could increase our cost of service or preclude us from offering certain current or future services. Breaches in our network security systems may hurt our ability to deliver services and our reputation, and result in liability. We could lose clients and expose ourselves to liability if there are any breaches to our network security systems, which could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems. In the last four years, we experienced two known breaches of network security, which resulted in a temporary failure of network operations, but did not result in any losses of confidential customer information or material financial losses. Any network failure could harm our ability to deliver certain services, our reputation and subject us to liability. Our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to build new distribution relationships, and to bring on new customers, of which there can be no assurance. Our ability to grow through efficient and cost effective deployment of our VoIP services is in part dependent upon our ability to identify and contract with local entities that will assist in the distribution of our services. This will include local sales partners that sell our corporate services. If we are unable to identify or contract for such distribution relationships, or if the efforts of third party sales agents are not successful, we may not generate the customers or revenues currently envisioned. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and licenses to enter new domestic and international markets in which such approvals are required. Such approvals may or may not occur as planned and may or may not be delayed. Our entry into new domestic and international markets may in certain cases rely upon our ability to obtain licenses or other approvals to operate in those markets, our ability to establish good working relationships with the relevant telecommunications regulatory authorities in that jurisdiction, or our ability to interconnect to the local telephone networks in that market. There can be no assurance of our ability to accomplish these requirements. The communications services industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively. The communications industry, including the provisioning of voice services, Internet services and data services, is highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to constant technological change and intense marketing by providers with similar products and services. We expect that new carrier competitors, as well as “gray market” operators (operators who arrange call termination in a manner that bypasses the postal telephone and telegraph company, resulting in high margins for them and substantially lower revenues for the legitimate providers), may have an impact on the market. In addition, many of our current carrier and corporate competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence as well as greater financial, technical, operational, marketing, and other resources and experience. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets where we compete with them, we may not be able to compete successfully in those markets. We also believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect our gross margins if we are not able to reduce our costs commensurate with the price reductions of our competitors. In addition, the pace of technological change makes it impossible for us to predict whether we will face new competitors using different technologies to provide the same or similar services offered or proposed to be offered by us. If our competitors were to provide better and more cost effective services than ours, we may not be able to increase our revenues or capture any significant market share. Industry consolidation could make it more difficult for us to compete. Companies offering voice, Internet, data and communications services are, in some circumstances, consolidating. We may not be able to compete successfully with businesses that have combined, or will combine, to produce companies with substantially greater financial, technical, sales, and marketing resources, or with larger client bases, more extended networks, or more established relationships with vendors, distributors and partners. With these heightened competitive pressures, there is a risk that our revenues may not grow as expected and the value of our common stock could decline. Our ability to provide services is often dependent on our suppliers and other service providers who may not prove to be effective. A majority of the voice calls made by our clients are connected through other communication carriers, which provide us with transmission capacity through a variety of arrangements. Our ability to terminate voice traffic in our targeted markets is an essential component of our ongoing operations. If we do not secure or maintain operating and termination arrangements, our ability to increase services to our existing markets, and gain entry into new markets, will be limited. Therefore, our ability to maintain and expand our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with other domestic carriers, Internet service providers, international carriers, satellite providers, fiber optic cable providers and other service providers, many of which are our competitors, and upon our ability to obtain their services on a cost effective basis. In addition, if a carrier with whom we interconnect does not carry the traffic routed to it, or does not provide the required capacity, we may be forced to route our traffic to, or buy capacity from, a different carrier on less advantageous terms, which could reduce our profit margins or degrade our network service quality. In the event network service is degraded, it may result in a loss of customers. To the extent that any of these carriers with whom we interconnect raise their rates, change their pricing structure, or reduce the amount of capacity they will make available to us, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We rely on third party equipment suppliers who may not be able to provide us the equipment necessary to deliver the services that we seek to provide. We are dependent on third party equipment suppliers for equipment, software, and hardware components, including Cisco, Nextone, BroadSoft, and Veraz. If these suppliers fail to continue product development and research and development or fail to deliver quality products or support services on a timely basis, or we are unable to develop alternative sources of supply, if and as required, it could result in an inability to deliver the services that we currently provide or intend to provide, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected thereby. We rely on the cooperation of other international carriers and/or postal telephone and telegraph companies (PTTs), who may not always cooperate with us in our attempts to serve a specific country or market. In some cases, the growth of our carrier services business requires the cooperation of other international carriers and/or the incumbent PTT in order to provide services to or from specific countries or markets. In the event the PTT, or another in-country international carrier, does not cooperate with us or support us in our efforts to serve that country, our ability to provide service to or from that country may be delayed, or the costs to provide service might increase due to our being forced to use another more expensive carrier.If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with our joint venture partners, we could fail in an important market. We have been in the past, and may be in the future, engaged in certain joint ventures where we share control or management with a joint venture partner. If we are unable to maintain a successful relationship with a joint venture partner, the joint venture’s ability to move quickly and respond to changes in market conditions or respond to financial issues can erode and reduce the potential for value creation and return on investment. Further, any failure in joint ventures may restrict or delay our ability to make important financial decisions, such as repatriating cash to us from such joint ventures. This uncertainty with our potential future joint ventures could result in a failure in an important market. Service interruptions due to disputes could result in a loss of revenues and harm our reputation. Portions of our terminating network may be shut down from time to time, as a result of disputes with vendors or other issues. Any future network shut downs can have a significant negative impact on revenue and cash flows, as well as hurting our reputation. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to quickly resolve disputes, if ever, which could result in a permanent loss of revenues. Because we do business on an international level, we are subject to an increased risk of tariffs, sanctions and other uncertainties that may hurt our revenues. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, especially in emerging markets, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, the imposition of tariffs or sanctions, licenses, customs, duties, other trade barriers, political risks, currency devaluations, high inflation, corporate law requirements, and even civil unrest. Many of the economies of these emerging markets we seek to enter are weak and volatile. We may not be able to mitigate the effect of inflation on our operations in these countries by price increases, even over the long-term. Further, expropriation of private businesses in such jurisdictions remains a possibility, whether by outright seizure by a foreign government or by confiscatory tax or other policies. Also, deregulation of the communications markets in developing countries may or may not continue. Incumbent service providers, trade unions and others may resist legislation directed toward deregulation and may resist allowing us to interconnect to their networks. The legal systems in emerging markets also frequently have insufficient experience with commercial transactions between private parties, and consequently, we may not be able to protect or enforce our rights in some emerging market countries. Governments and regulations may change, thus impacting the availability of new licenses or the cancellation or suspension of existing operating licenses. The instability of the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, as well as their interpretation and enforcement, could materially and adversely affect our business, our financial condition, or results of operations in those countries. The regulatory treatment of VoIP outside the United States varies from country to country. Some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies and they may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country or impose other more onerous regulations. In such cases, our failure to register could subject us to fines, penalties, or forfeiture of our right to do business in that country. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Additional taxation and government regulations of the communications industry may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services and increased costs of doing business. As a result of changes in regulatory policy, we could be forced to pay additional taxes on the products and services we provide. We structure our operations and our pricing based on assumptions about various domestic and international tax laws, tax treaties, and other relevant laws. Taxation authorities or other regulatory authorities might not reach the same conclusions about taxation that we have reached in formulating our assumptions. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences, if our assumptions about these matters are incorrect or the relevant laws are changed or modified. Generally, in the U.S., our products and services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state, and local regulation, including regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and various state public utility commissions. We may also be subject to similar regulation by foreign governments and their telecommunications/regulatory agencies. While these regulatory agencies grant us the authority to operate our business, they typically exercise minimal control over our services and pricing. However, they do require the filing of various reports, compliance with public safety and consumer protection standards, and the payment of certain regulatory fees and assessments. We cannot assure that the applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies will grant us the required authority to operate, will allow us to maintain existing authority so we can continue to operate, or will refrain from taking action against us if we are found to have provided services without obtaining the necessary authority. Similarly, if our pricing, and/or terms or conditions of service, are not properly filed or updated with the applicable agencies, or if we are otherwise not fully compliant with the rules of the various regulatory agencies, regulators or other third parties could challenge our actions and we could be subject to forfeiture of our authority to provide service, or to penalties, fines, fees, or other costs. We have been delinquent in certain filing and reporting obligations in the past, including, but not limited to, filings with the FCC and Universal Service Fund (USF) reports and payments. We are currently working with various federal and state regulatory agencies to complete any outstanding filings. In addition to new regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet, which could hamper our growth. New and existing laws may cover issues that include: sales and other taxes; user privacy; pricing controls; characteristics and quality of products and services; consumer protection; cross-border commerce; copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. This could delay growth in demand for our products and services and limit the growth of our revenue. A large percentage of our current revenues are related to a small group of customers and loss of any of those customers could negatively impact our revenues. A large percentage of our carrier services revenues are provided by a limited number of customers. Specifically, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 66% and 72% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The terms of the customer’s agreement do not bind the customer contractually to continue using our services and, if our business with this customer were to significantly decrease or stop, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and cash flow. Risks Related to our Common Stock One stockholder may be deemed to control us through its stock ownership and its interests may differ from other stockholders. West End Special Opportunity Fund II, LP (“West End”) currently beneficially owns approximately 18.7 million shares, or 19.8%, of our outstanding Common Stock, and is the second largest single voting block in the Company. Additionally, our Directors and Executive Officers as a group currently beneficially own approximately 29.1 million shares, or 27.1% of our Common Stock. As a result, while neither West End nor our Directors and Officers as a group, have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, the extent of their ownership enable both groups to influence the outcome of these matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporation transactions including business combinations. Their interests may differ from those of other stockholders. We are not likely to pay cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders of our outstanding Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends prior to the payment of any dividends on our Common Stock. The payment of dividends is also subject to provisions of Delaware law prohibiting the payment of dividends except out of surplus and certain other limitations. Our Common Stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our Common Stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our Common Stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our Common Stock. In addition, the market price of our Common Stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the following: • our ability to obtain securities analyst coverage; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates of our financial performance; • changes in market valuations of companies similar to us; and announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new offerings, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • the failure to meet analysts’ expectations regarding financial performances. Furthermore, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to Securities class action litigation. A Securities class action lawsuit against us, regardless of its merit, could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of our management from other business concerns, which in turn could harm our business. Our Common Stock may be subject to the “Penny Stock” rules of the Commission, which will make transactions in our Common Stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our Common Stock. As the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock may be considered a "penny stock," and trading in our common stock is subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker/dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. Securities and Exchange Commission regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a "penny stock," including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few broker or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities. In addition to the applicability of the penny stock rules, other risks associated with trading in penny stocks could also be price fluctuations and the lack of a liquid market. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our certificate of incorporation and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our Company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our Company and stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware corporate law. Our By-laws also require us to indemnify our directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with our directors, officers and employees. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our Company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our Company from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our Company and stockholders. The issuance of our Common Stock upon the exercise of options or warrants or the conversion of outstanding convertible securities may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock. As of the date of this report, there were 99,391,904 shares of our Common Stock outstanding. The issuance of our shares upon the exercise or conversion of securities we have outstanding will increase the number of our publicly traded shares, which could depress the market price of our Common Stock. The perceived risk of dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our Common Stock. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could encourage investors to engage in short sales of our Common Stock. By increasing the number of shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our Common Stock. As of the date of this report, there were 43,837,871 shares of our Common Stock reserved for issuance in the event of exercise of outstanding options and warrants, conversion of outstanding Preferred Stock and issuance as dividends on the Preferred Stock, in the aggregate representing approximately 44% of our outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of this report. We could use preferred stock to fund operations or resist takeovers, and the issuance of Preferred Stock may cause additional dilution. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 7,995 shares of Series A-1 through A-4 Preferred Stock are currently issued and outstanding. Our certificate of incorporation gives our board of directors the authority to issue Preferred Stock without the approval of our stockholders. We may issue additional shares of Preferred Stock to raise money to finance our operations. We may authorize the issuance of the Preferred Stock in one or more series. In addition, we may set the terms of Preferred Stock, including: · dividend and liquidation preferences; · voting rights; · conversion privileges; · redemption terms; and · other privileges and rights of the shares of each authorized series. The issuance of large blocks of Preferred Stock could possibly have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. It can also negatively impact our existing stockholders’ liquidation preferences. In addition, while we include Preferred Stock in our capitalization to improve our financial flexibility, we could possibly issue our preferred stock to friendly third parties to preserve control by present management. This could occur if we become subject to a hostile takeover that could ultimately benefit us and our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 