Risk Factors” section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Overview Lakes Entertainment, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (“Lakes”, “we”, or “our”), develops, finances and manages Indian-owned casino properties. We currently have development and management or financing agreements with four separate tribes for casino operations in Michigan, California, and Oklahoma for a total of five separate casino projects. We are currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma (the “Iowa Tribe”) and the Four Winds Casino Resort for the Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians (the “Pokagon Band”). The remaining projects are in various stages of development, as discussed in more detail below. We are also involved in other business activities, including development of a non-Indian casino in Mississippi and the development of new table games for licensing to both Tribal and non-Tribal casinos. In addition, as of December 30, 2007, we owned approximately 61% of WPT Enterprises, Inc. (“WPTE”), a separate publicly-held media and entertainment company principally engaged in the creation of internationally branded entertainment and consumer 2 projects driven by the development, production and marketing of televised programming based on gaming themes, the development and operation of an online gaming website, the licensing and sale of branded products and the sale of corporate sponsorships. Our consolidated financial statements include the results of operations of WPTE, and our revenues have been derived primarily from WPTE’s business. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on our segments. Indian Casino Business. Lakes’ primary business is to develop and manage Indian-owned casino properties that offer the opportunity for long-term development of related entertainment facilities, including hotels, golf courses, theaters, recreational vehicle parks and other complementary amenities. Lakes is currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe in Perkins, Oklahoma, under a seven-year management contract, which commenced in 2006. Lakes also has a five-year contract to manage the Four Winds Casino Resort, for the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan near Interstate 94. Lakes began managing the Four Winds Casino Resort when it opened to the public on August 2, 2007. The Four Winds Casino Resort is located near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. Lakes, through various subsidiaries, has entered into the following contracts for the development and management or financing of new casino operations: • Lakes has contracts to develop and manage the Shingle Springs Casino, which is being built on the Rancheria of the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians (the “Shingle Springs Tribe”) in El Dorado County, California, adjacent to U.S. Highway 50, approximately 30 miles east of Sacramento, California (the “Shingle Springs Casino”). The Shingle Springs Casino is currently under construction with an anticipated opening date in late 2008. • Lakes has contracts to develop and finance a casino to be built on the Rancheria of the Jamul Indian Village (the “Jamul Tribe”) located on Interstate 94, approximately 20 miles east of San Diego, California (the “Jamul Casino”). The Jamul Casino project has been delayed due to issues with road access to the proposed casino site. The Jamul Tribe is currently in discussions with the California Department of Transportation (“CalTrans”) to determine the optimal access point for traffic to the casino without disruption of traffic on the state highway, and has begun construction on their reservation of the driveway road leading to the casino site. • Lakes has a consulting agreement and management contract with the Iowa Tribe in connection with developing, equipping and managing a casino resort which is planned to be built near Route 66 and approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (the “Ioway Casino Resort”). The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. These transactions need to be approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the “BIA”). Lakes submitted its management contract with the Iowa Tribe for the Ioway Casino Resort to the NIGC for review in 2005. The NIGC has stated that it is waiting for the BIA to approve all land leases before it will issue an opinion on the management contract. • Lakes has also explored, and is continuing to explore, other development projects with Indian tribes. Non-Indian Casinos. Lakes also explores opportunities to develop and operate casinos that are not owned by Indian tribes. We have received various regulatory approvals to develop our own casino on approximately 400 acres near Vicksburg, Mississippi. Lakes is continuing to evaluate whether to proceed with this project, but in any event does not expect further development efforts before 2009. A total of $9.3 million has been invested as of December 30, 2007. WPT Enterprises, Inc. WPTE is a company engaged in the creation of internationally branded entertainment and consumer products driven by the development, production, and marketing of televised programming based on gaming themes. WPTE created the World Poker Tour® (“WPT”), a television show based on a series of high-stakes poker tournaments that currently airs on the Travel Channel (“TRV”) in the United States, and will begin airing on Game Show Network (“GSN”) in March 2008, and has been licensed for broadcast globally. WPTE currently licenses its brand to companies in the business of poker equipment and instruction, apparel, publishing, electronic 3 and wireless entertainment, DVD/home entertainment, casino games and giftware, and is engaged in the sale of corporate sponsorships. WPTE also offers a real-money online gaming website which prohibits wagers from players in the United States and other restricted jurisdictions. The “World Poker Tour” Tournaments, Television Series and Brand. The WPT is a sports league of affiliated poker tournaments open to the public. There are currently 19 regular WPT tournaments or tour stops on the circuit which are hosted by prestigious casinos and poker rooms. Each season of tour stops culminates in the WPT World Championship at the Bellagio Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, which includes the winners of each of that season’s previous WPT tournaments. The WPT stops have attracted well-known and established professional and amateur poker players on the poker circuit. WPTE also makes tour stops accessible to the mainstream poker player by partnering with casinos and poker rooms which host “satellite” and “super satellite” poker tournaments in which the winner or winners may ultimately earn a paid entry into a WPT event. At WPTE’s tour stops, WPTE films the final table of six participants competing for some of the poker world’s largest tournament prize pools. WPTE then edits the footage from each tour stop into a two-hour episode, resulting in a series of two-hour episodes, which are distributed for telecast to both domestic and international television audiences. In addition, WPTE films and produces special episodes based on a variety of non-traditional poker tournaments, which WPTE also distributes for telecast along with the episodes based on the WPT regular tour stops. The WPT brand has gained recognition through the telecast of the WPT television series, which currently airs on the TRV and subsequently on multiple television networks around the world. Since its premiere during the spring and summer of 2003, WPTE’s television series has become the Travel Channel’s highest rated program, based on data compiled by Nielsen Media Research that measures the number of television households viewing the series’ episodes. On April 2, 2007, WPTE entered into an agreement with GSN, pursuant to which GSN agreed to license from WPTE the sixth season of the WPT series, which begins airing in March 2008. GSN also has an option for Season Seven of the WPT that is exercisable no later than 60 days following GSN’s initial airing of the first episode of Season Six, which is projected to air on March 24, 2008. The following table describes the timing of Seasons One through Six of the World Poker Tour series, including WPTE’s delivery and the exhibition of the episodes each season: Date of Number of Agreement or Episodes World Poker Option for (Including Production Period and Initial Telecast of Tour season Season Specials) Delivery of Episodes Episodes in Season Season One January 2003 15 February 2002 — June 2003 March 2003 — June 2003 Season Two August 2003 25 July 2003 — June 2004 December 2003 — September 2004 Season Three May 2004 21 May 2004 — April 2005 October 2004 — August 2005 Season Four March 2005 21 May 2005 — April 2006 October 2005 — June 2006 Season Five March 2006 22 May 2006 — April 2007 August 2006 — August 2007 Season Six April 2007 23 May 2007 — July 2008 March 2008 — August 2008 (projected) (projected) WPTE’s business segments. WPTE operates through four main business segments, WPT Studios, WPT Global Marketing, WPT Online, and WPT China, described in greater detail below: WPT Studios generates revenue from the domestic and international licensing of WPTE television broadcasts, international television sponsorship revenue, as well as host fees from casinos and card rooms that host the televised events. The majority of WPTE’s revenues to date has resulted from WPT Studios, which has represented approximately 73% of WPTE’s total revenues. WPT Global Marketing includes branded consumer products, sponsorships, and event management divisions. WPTE’s branded consumer products division generates revenue principally from royalties from the licensing of WPTE’s brand to companies seeking to use the World Poker Tour brand and logo in the retail sales of their consumer products. WPTE’s sponsorship and event management division generates revenue from corporate sponsorship and management of televised and live events. 4 WPT Online includes WPTE’s international real money gaming website at WorldPokerTour.com and domestic website at WorldPokerTour.com, which includes poker tournament coverage and live updates thereof, statistics, poker player information, an online merchandise store, and ClubWPT.com, which launched in January 2008. WPT China, which began operating in 2007, represents WPTE’s efforts in China to help build the sport and popular Chinese national card game “Tuo La Ji” or “Traktor PokerTM”. In 2007, WPTE entered into a Cooperation Agreement (the “Cooperation Agreement”) with the China Leisure Sports Administrative Center (the “CLSAC”), a Chinese government-sanctioned body within the Sports Ministry with authority over certain leisure sports, including Tuo La Ji. Pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, WPTE has the right to brand and exploit the WPT China National Traktor Poker Tour (the “Traktor Poker Tour”) during the five year term of the Cooperation Agreement. Additionally, WPTE is afforded certain marketing and sponsorship rights in conjunction with the Traktor Poker Tour, including the right to sanction and derive revenue from third-party branding at tour events and the right to exploit films and other content generated in conjunction with the Traktor Poker Tour in all media, and the rights to sell online and mobile subscriptions. Development and Marketing of Table Games. A division of Lakes develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. We continue to test and market a number of games including WPT “All In Hold’Em,” “Rainbow Poker,” “Four The Money,” “Flop-A-Lock” and “Bonus Craps.” The WPT “All In Hold’Em” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant. Real Estate Holdings. Lakes owns parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to our corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to our planned Lakes-owned casino project. Investment in Auction Rate Securities. As of December 30, 2007, we had $9.2 million in cash and cash equivalents. Of this amount $5.3 million related to Lakes and $3.9 million related to WPTE. We also had $53.5 million in short-term investments in marketable securities of which $30.5 million related to Lakes and $23.0 million related to WPTE. All of Lakes’ short-term investments in marketable securities and $7.8 million of WPTE’s short-term investments in marketable securities were auction rate securities (“ARS”). The types of ARS investments that we own are backed by student loans, the majority of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”), and all had credit ratings of AAA or Aaa when purchased. Neither Lakes nor WPTE own any other type of ARS investments. None of our investments in ARS qualify, or have ever been classified in our financial statements, as cash or cash equivalents. The interest rates on these ARS are reset every 7 to 35 days by an auction process. Historically, these types of ARS investments have been highly liquid. As a result of the recent liquidity issues experienced in the global credit and capital markets, in February and March 2008, auctions for ARS investments held by us failed. An auction failure means that the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeds the amount of purchase orders, and the parties wishing to sell the securities are instead required to hold the investment until a successful auction is completed. The ARS continue to pay interest in accordance with the terms of the underlying security; however, liquidity will be limited until there is a successful auction or until such time as other markets for these ARS investments develop. Account statements for February 2008 received from the firms managing our investments indicated no decrease in the fair-value of these securities and that the underlying credit quality of the assets backing our ARS investments have not been impacted by the reduced liquidity of these ARS investments. As a result of these recent events, we are in the process of evaluating the extent of any impairment in our ARS investments resulting from the current lack of liquidity; however, we are not yet able to quantify the amount of possible impairment, if any, that may occur in the foreseeable future. Lakes currently expects to be able to obtain funds in order to fulfill its future liquidity needs if it is unable to liquidate its ARS investments by mid-2008 as needed, and is exploring several financing alternatives. WPTE does not believe that any lack of liquidity during the next twelve months relating to this matter will have an impact on its ability to fund its operations. History Lakes is a Minnesota corporation formed in 1998 under the name of GCI Lakes, Inc, which was changed to Lakes Gaming, Inc. in August 1998 and to Lakes Entertainment, Inc. in 2002. Lakes is the successor to the Indian 5 gaming business of Grand Casinos, Inc. (“Grand Casinos”) and became a public company through a spin-off transaction in which shares of Lakes common stock were distributed to the shareholders of Grand Casinos. Before the spin-off, Grand Casinos had management contracts for Grand Casino Hinckley and Grand Casino Mille Lacs, both Indian-owned casinos in Minnesota. Those contracts ended before the spin-off. After the spin-off, Lakes managed two Indian-owned casinos in Louisiana previously managed by Grand Casinos. Lakes managed the largest casino resort in Louisiana, Grand Casino Coushatta, until the management contract expired in 2002. Lakes also had a management contract for Grand Casino Avoyelles, which was terminated through an early buy out of the contract effective in 2000. Lakes began managing the Cimarron Casino in 2006, and began managing the Four Winds Casino Resort in 2007. Indian Casino Business Development and Management of Four Winds Casino Resort. On August 2, 2007, the Four Winds Casino Resort opened to the public. The Four Winds Casino Resort was developed on approximately 675 acres of land, which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan, near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. The facility features approximately 3,000 slot machines and approximately 100 table games as well as multiple restaurants and bars, a parking garage and other facilities. In 1999, Lakes and the Pokagon Band executed a development agreement and management contract governing their relationship during the development, construction and management of the casino. The terms set forth in the development agreement required Lakes to advance approximately $71.2 million for the purchase of land and for the initial development phase of the project. In March 2006, Lakes received notification from the National Indian Gaming Commission (“NIGC”) that it approved Lakes’ management agreement with the Pokagon Band to develop and manage the Four Winds Casino Resort. On June 22, 2006 the Pokagon Band closed on a $305 million senior note financing agreement and a $75 million commitment for furniture, furnishings and equipment (“FF&E Commitment”) to fund the Four Winds Casino Resort project. On March 2, 2007 (the “Settlement Date”), Lakes contracted with a group of investors for their participation in the loans made by Lakes to the Pokagon Band for the development of the Four Winds Casino Resort, which loans have been assumed by the Pokagon Gaming Authority. As of the Settlement Date, the face value of Lakes’ notes receivable was approximately $104.2 million, including accrued interest of approximately $33.0 million. On the Settlement Date, Lakes transferred 100% of the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans to the aforementioned group of investors for cash proceeds of approximately $102.1 million, which was based upon the accreted value of the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans less a two percent discount. Lakes incurred transaction fees of approximately $1.1 million, which were recorded as a reduction of net realized and unrealized gains on notes receivable in the consolidated statements of earnings (loss) and comprehensive earnings (loss) included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, based upon the previously recorded estimated fair value of the notes at December 31, 2006, Lakes realized a gain of $0.5 million as a result of the consummation of the participation agreement. This participation was accounted for as a sale and does not have any effect on Lakes’ related management agreement with the Pokagon Band. Lakes has no continuing rights or obligations related to the loans and is isolated, even in default, from liability. The management contract is for five years from the date the casino opened and calls for Lakes to receive a management fee equal to 24% of net income up to a certain threshold and 19% on net income over that threshold. Lakes’ management fee is subordinated to the $305 million senior note financing agreement and the $75 million furniture, furnishing, and equipment financing agreement relating to the Four Winds Casino Resort and is also subject to a minimum guaranteed monthly payment to the Pokagon Band. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Four Winds Casino Resort’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Pokagon Band, repayment of various debt with interest accrued thereon, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Pokagon Band. The Pokagon Band may buy out the management contract after two years from the opening date. The buy out amount is calculated based upon the previous twelve months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the management contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy out occurs. If the Pokagon Band elects to buy out the contract, any outstanding amounts owed to Lakes would become immediately due and payable. 6 Development and Management of Shingle Springs Casino. Construction of the Shingle Springs Casino began during June of 2007 and is currently on schedule and anticipated to open in late 2008. The Shingle Springs Casino will include approximately 88,000 square feet of casino space located adjacent to the planned Shingle Springs Rancheria exit, approximately 35 miles east of downtown Sacramento, on U.S. Highway 50. The Shingle Springs Casino is currently planned to feature approximately 2,100 electronic gaming devices and approximately 75 table games, a high stakes gaming room, as well as restaurants, enclosed parking and other facilities. During July 2004, the NIGC notified Lakes that it approved the development and management contracts between the Shingle Springs Tribe and Lakes, permitting Lakes to manage a Class II and Class III casino. On June 28, 2007, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe closed on a $450 million senior note financing to fund the Shingle Springs Casino project. The development agreement, as amended, provided for Lakes to make certain pre-construction advances to the Shingle Springs Tribe in the form of a transition loan and land loan up to a maximum combined amount of $75.0 million. The principal balance of the transition loan as of December 30, 2007 was approximately $47.6 million. The land loan was repaid to Lakes, including accrued interest, on June 28, 2007 in connection with the close of the $450 million senior note financing. The amended development agreement provides for Lakes to assist in the design, development and construction of the facility as well as manage the pre-opening, opening and continued operations of the Shingle Springs Casino and related amenities for a period of seven years from the date the casino opens. As compensation for our management services, we will receive a management fee between 21% and 30% of net income (as that term is defined by the management contract) of the operations annually for the first five years, with a declining percentage in years six and seven. Payment of our management fee is subordinated to the repayment of $450 million senior note financing of the affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe and any amounts borrowed for furniture, furnishings and equipment. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Shingle Springs Casino’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Shingle Springs Tribe, repayment of various debt with accrued interest, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Shingle Springs Tribe. The Shingle Springs Tribe may terminate the agreement after five years from the opening of the casino if any of certain required elements of the project have not been developed. The management contract includes provisions that allow the Shingle Springs Tribe to buy out the management contract after four years from the opening date. The buy out amount is based upon the previous 12 months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy out occurs. If the Shingle Springs Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. Development and Financing of Jamul Casino. Lakes acquired its initial interest in the development agreement and management contract for the Jamul Casino from Kean Argovitz Resorts in 1999 and formed a joint venture in which the contracts were held between Lakes and Kean Argovitz Resorts — Jamul, LLC (“KAR — Jamul”). This development agreement and management contract has been submitted to the NIGC for approval. On January 30, 2003, Lakes purchased the remaining KAR — Jamul’s partnership interest in the joint venture. In connection with the purchase transaction, Lakes entered into separate agreements with the two individual owners of KAR — Jamul. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Effective March 30, 2006, we entered into a development financing and services agreement with the Jamul Tribe to assist the Jamul Tribe in developing the Jamul Casino which the Jamul Tribe will manage. The casino resort is to be located on State Highway 94, approximately 20 miles east of downtown San Diego. Current plans for the casino include approximately 1,000 electronic gaming devices and approximately 20 table games along with various restaurants and related amenities. The Jamul Tribe has an approximate six-acre reservation on which the casino is planned to be built. The reservation is located near San Diego, California. Lakes has also acquired 101 acres of land contiguous to the six-acres of Rancheria land of which 82 acres could be used for the casino support facilities if the land is taken into trust. The process of getting the land contiguous to the reservation placed into trust has been slow. Therefore, during August of 2005, the Jamul Tribe and Lakes formally announced plans to build the casino on the approximately six acres of reservation land held by the Jamul Tribe, since reservation land qualifies for gaming without going through a land in trust process. 7 Under our current development financing and services agreement, we are entitled to receive a flat fee of $15 million for our development design services, and a flat fee of $15 million for our construction oversight services, payable evenly over the first five years after the opening date of the Jamul Casino. As part of the current agreement, we will use our best efforts to obtain financing of up to $350 million from which advances will be made to the Jamul Tribe to pay for the design and construction of the Jamul Casino. In connection with our financing of the Jamul Casino, the Jamul Tribe will pay interest over a ten year period on sums advanced by us equal to the rate charged to us for obtaining the necessary funds plus five percent. Amounts previously advanced by Lakes to the Jamul Tribe in connection with the Jamul Tribe’s proposed casino resort are included in the development financing and services agreement financing amount. This agreement will be modified to reflect the economics of the revised casino plan as discussed below, but will not be subject to approval by the State or the NIGC. Additionally, there can be no assurance that third party financing will be available with acceptable terms, and if we are unable to obtain the appropriate amount of financing for this project, the project may not be completed as planned. Under the current compact that the Jamul Tribe has with the State of California (the “State”) and based upon requirements in other compacts approved by the State in 2004, the Jamul Tribe completed a Tribal Environmental Impact Statement/Report that was approved by the Jamul Tribe’s General Council with a record of decision issued by the Jamul Tribe on December 16, 2006. Since that time, the Jamul Tribe has received comments from various state agencies including the representative from the California Governor’s office. The Jamul Tribe and the State have met on several occasions in an attempt to address the State’s comments related to compact requirements. Throughout fiscal 2007, Lakes and the Jamul Tribe were evaluating the Jamul Tribe’s alternatives of pursuing a new compact, complying with certain requirements in their existing compact or building and operating a casino based solely on class II electronic gaming devices. The proposed gaming facility has been reduced in size and scope because resolving the State’s comments on the Jamul Tribe’s existing compact or a proposed new contract is expected to take more time than is currently acceptable to the Jamul Tribe. The current plan is for a smaller scale gaming facility that will become a solely class II electronic gaming device facility which will not require a compact. This project has been delayed due to issues with road access to the proposed casino site. The Jamul Tribe is currently in discussions with CalTrans to determine the optimal access point for traffic to the casino without disruption of traffic on the state highway, and has begun construction on their reservation of the driveway road leading to the casino site. Consulting Agreements and Management Contracts with the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma. On March 15, 2005, Lakes, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, entered into consulting agreements and management contracts with the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally recognized Indian Tribe, and the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally-chartered corporation (collectively, the “Iowa Tribe”). The agreements became effective as of January 27, 2005, pursuant to which Lakes will assist the Iowa Tribe with two separate casino destinations in Oklahoma including (i) consulting on development of the Ioway Casino Resort, a new first class casino with ancillary amenities and facilities to be located on Indian land approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City along Route 66 until regulatory approvals are received for the management contract for the Ioway Casino Resort; and (ii) consulting on the refurbishment of and operational efforts at the Iowa Tribe’s existing Cimarron Casino, located in Perkins, Oklahoma until the management contract for that project was approved by the NIGC during 2006. Key terms relating to the agreements for the projects are as follows: The Ioway Casino Resort. For its gaming development consulting services under the Iowa Consulting Agreement related to the Ioway Casino Resort, Lakes will receive a development fee of $4 million paid upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort, and a flat monthly fee of $500,000 for 120 months commencing upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort. Lakes has agreed to make advances to the Iowa Tribe, subject to a project budget to be agreed upon by Lakes and the Iowa Tribe and certain other conditions. The development loan will be for preliminary development costs under the Ioway Casino Resort budget. Lakes has also agreed to use reasonable efforts to assist the Iowa Tribe in obtaining permanent financing for any projects developed under the Iowa Consulting Agreement. The Iowa Management Contract for the Ioway Casino Resort is subject to the approval of the NIGC and certain other conditions. For its performance under the Iowa Management Contract, Lakes will be entitled to receive a management fee of approximately 30% of net income, as defined in the agreement, for each month during the term 8 of the Iowa Management Contract. The Iowa Management Contract term is seven years from the first day that Lakes is able to commence management of the Ioway Casino Resort’s gaming operations under all legal and regulatory requirements (the “Commencement Date”), provided that the Iowa Tribe has the right to buy out the remaining term of the Iowa Management Contract after the Ioway Casino Resort has been in continuous operation for four years, for an amount based on the then present value of estimated future management fees. If the Iowa Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. Subject to certain conditions, Lakes agrees to make advances for the Ioway Casino Resort’s working capital requirements, if needed, during the first month after the Commencement Date. The advances are to be repaid through an operating note payable from revenues generated by future operations of the Ioway Casino Resort bearing interest at two percent over the prime rate. Lakes also agrees to fund any shortfall in certain minimum monthly Ioway Casino Resort payments to the Iowa Tribe by means of non-interest bearing advances under the same operating note. The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. These transactions need to be approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the “BIA”). Lakes submitted its management contract with the Iowa Tribe for the Ioway Casino Resort to the NIGC for review in 2005. The NIGC has stated that it is waiting for the BIA to approve all land leases before it will issue an opinion on the management contract. Construction of the Ioway Casino Resort could begin in the fall of 2008 with an estimated opening date of the casino in the fall of 2009, pending the necessary regulatory approvals. Cimarron Casino. Lakes has entered into a separate gaming consulting agreement (the “Cimarron Consulting Agreement”) and management contract (the “Cimarron Management Contract”) with the Iowa Tribe with respect to the Cimarron Casino. Lakes has been operating under the Cimarron Management Contract since mid-2006 after it was approved by the NIGC. Prior to that time, Lakes operated under the Cimarron Consulting Agreement and earned a flat monthly fee of $50,000. The annual fee under the Cimarron Management Contract is 30% of net income in excess of $4 million. Arrangement with Consultant. Lakes has an agreement with Kevin Kean that will compensate him for his consulting services (relating to the Iowa Tribe) rendered to Lakes. Under this arrangement, subject to Mr. Kean obtaining certain regulatory approvals, Mr. Kean will receive 20% of Lakes’ fee compensation that is received under the Iowa Consulting Agreement, Cimarron Consulting Agreement, Iowa Management Contract and Cimarron Management Contract with the Iowa Tribe (i.e., six percent of the incremental total net income or 20% of the Lakes’ 30% share). This agreement provides that payments will be due to Mr. Kean when Lakes is paid by the Iowa Tribe assuming he has been found suitable by the NIGC. Gaming Development Consulting Agreements and Management Contracts with three wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Pawnee Tribal Development Corporation (“Pawnee TDC)” referred to collectively as the “Pawnee Nation”. On December 19, 2007, Lakes received a copy of a letter from the Pawnee Nation’s legal counsel that formally terminated the relationship between the Pawnee Nation and Lakes. Prior to the termination, Lakes had advanced approximately $4.5 million ($1.8 million and $2.7 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively) to the Pawnee Nation related to the Chilocco Casino and Travel Plaza projects under the then existing agreements. As of December 31, 2006, completion of the Chilocco Casino and Travel Plaza projects were considered remote and Lakes wrote off the advances. Consulting Agreement and Management Contract with the Kickapoo Traditional Tribe of Texas (the “Kickapoo Tribe”). During November 2005, Lakes and the Kickapoo Tribe terminated their business relationship due to different ideas on how to proceed with the project. In April 2006, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Kickapoo Tribe (the “Settlement Agreement”) pursuant to which we and the Kickapoo Tribe resolved all outstanding issues relating to the terminated business relationship. As of December 30, 2007 there are no remaining liabilities subject to the Settlement Agreement. Agreements With Owners of KAR Entities. We have advanced a total of $4.3 million as of December 30, 2007 to KAR-Jamul and Kean Argovitz Resorts — Shingle Springs, LLC (“KAR-Shingle Springs”) (together, the “KAR Entities”) and the two owners, which is carried on the consolidated balance sheet included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a component of other assets related to Indian casino projects, which will be repaid upon the 9 opening of the Shingle Springs Casino, the Jamul Casino and the Ioway Casino Resort. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Non-Indian Casino Business As part of our business strategy, we also seek opportunities to develop and operate our own casinos where applicable laws permit. In February 2005, Lakes announced that its request for gaming site approval with respect to its proposed casino location in Vicksburg, Mississippi had been granted by the Mississippi Gaming Commission. The site, adjacent to the Mississippi River, contains approximately 400 acres located three miles south of downtown in Vicksburg, Warren County, Mississippi. Lakes has either purchased or holds options for the purchase of the land for this site. During July 2005, Lakes received approval from the Mississippi Gaming Commission of its development plan for a gaming project to be built on this site. Lakes’ approved plan allows for an operation consisting of a 60,000 square foot casino floor which would include multiple bars, live entertainment, various restaurants, 1,200 to 1,500 slot machines, 40 to 50 table games, poker room, valet parking and hotel rooms. This plan allows for expanded gaming, additional hotel rooms, a Kid’s Quest child care facility, a nightclub, cigar lounge, banquet rooms, and an event center. Lakes continues to work with all applicable parties to obtain the necessary permits and obtain the various land parcels on which to build the casino. Lakes is continuing to evaluate whether to proceed with this project, but in any event does not expect further development efforts before 2009. A total of $9.3 million has been invested as of December 30, 2007. Table Games Lakes has a division that develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. Lakes is continuing to test and market a number of new games, including WPT’s “All In Hold’Em,” “Rainbow Poker,” “Four The Money,” “Flop-A-Lock” and “Bonus Craps”. The WPT’s “All In Hold’Em” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant. Competition The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored video lottery and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, card rooms, and online gaming outside the United States. The casinos to be managed or owned by Lakes compete with all of these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. Lakes also competes with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Some of Lakes’ competitors have more personnel and greater financial and other resources than Lakes. Further expansion of gaming could also significantly affect Lakes’ business. According to the NIGC tribal data reports, in California, Michigan and Oklahoma, the key areas targeted in the near-term by Lakes, Indian gaming is very well-developed and continues to flourish. California has by far the largest Indian gaming industry of any state, generating an estimated $7-8 billion in gaming revenues in 2006, which represents nearly one-third of all Indian gaming revenue in the United States. There were 56 compacted Indian gaming facilities in California in 2006, with a total of approximately 63,000 slot machines and approximately 2,000 table games. Indian gaming facilities in Michigan can offer all forms of Class III gaming with the exception of sports wagering. The Four Winds Casino Resort competes primarily with the riverboats that operate in northern Indiana. According to the Indiana Gaming Commission tribal data reports, there were five riverboats in northern Indiana in 2007 generating approximately $1.3 billion in gaming revenue with a total of 8,576 slot machines and 283 table games. 10 In November 2004, the State of Oklahoma approved a state gaming compact that allows participating tribes to operate various forms of Class II and Class III gaming devices and non house-banked card games. According to the NIGC tribal data reports, from the end of 2005 through 2006, the number of Indian gaming operations is 387 operations nationwide. During this same period, tribal gaming revenues increased $2.5 billion, or 11.1%, to $25.1 billion in the United States. The NIGC reports gaming revenues on a regional basis and Region V, which contains Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, showed the largest revenue increase of 22.7%. Region II, which contains California and Northern Nevada, increased 9.8% to $7.7 billion in 2006 and is the highest grossing region. The Region II increases are due primarily to the emergence of casinos in California. In the market for televised poker tournaments, WPTE competes with producers of several poker-related programs, including the “World Series of Poker,” an annual event hosted by Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (“Harrah’s”) that airs on ESPN, High Stakes Poker on GSN and Poker After Dark and the National Heads-Up Poker Championship on NBC. In 2005, Harrah’s created the World Series of Poker national circuit, taking place at several casinos operated by Harrah’s throughout the United States. All circuit championship events are currently taped for telecast on ESPN. These and other producers of poker-related programming may be well established and may have significantly greater resources than WPTE. One of the ways the WPT series differentiates its programming schedule from these competing shows by airing the WPT series in prime time television during the same timeslot each week. WPTE believes that this type of “appointment” television helps build a following among viewers. In addition to other poker-related programs, the WPT series also competes with televised sporting events, reality-based television programming and other televised programming that airs during the same timeslot. WPTE’s online real-money gaming website, WorldPokerTour.com, launched at the end of the second quarter of 2007. The website does not accept bets made from players in the United States and other restricted jurisdictions. WorldPokerTour.com faces competition from several larger, more established online gaming websites, including PartyPoker.com, PokerStars.com, FullTiltPoker.com and many others. These and other competitors have significant marketing and operational experience advantages. In addition, in October 2006, Congress passed, and the President signed, the SAFE Port Act which included in it the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (“Act”). Several of WPTE’s large competitors have stopped accepting bets from United States players as a result of the Act, which has lead to those competitors focusing more closely on the international market for players, creating additional competition for WPTE to face. WPTE plans to differentiate its site by leveraging the strength of the WPT brand and the distribution reach of WPTE’s international telecasts. WPTE believes that the resulting brand awareness will help build a following among international online players. Regulation Gaming regulation The ownership, management, and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction (the “Regulatory Authorities”). These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally pertain to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. Certain basic provisions that are currently applicable to Lakes in its management, development and financing activities are described below. Neither Lakes nor any subsidiary may own, manage or operate a gaming facility unless proper licenses, permits and approvals are obtained. An application for a license, permit or approval may be denied for any cause that the Regulatory Authorities deem reasonable. Most Regulatory Authorities also have the right to license, investigate, and determine the suitability of any person who has a material relationship with Lakes or any of its subsidiaries, including officers, directors, employees, and security holders of Lakes or its subsidiaries. In the event a Regulatory Authority were to find a security holder to be unsuitable, Lakes may be sanctioned, and may lose its licenses and approvals if Lakes recognizes any rights in any entity with such unsuitable person in connection with such securities. Lakes may be required to repurchase its securities at fair market value from security holders that the Regulatory Authorities deem unsuitable. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation authorize Lakes to redeem securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of the Lakes’ Board of Directors, jeopardizes gaming 11 licenses or approvals of Lakes or its subsidiaries. Once obtained, licenses, permits, and approvals must be periodically renewed and generally are not transferable. The Regulatory Authorities may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit, or restrict a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Fines for violations may be levied against the holder of a license, and in certain jurisdictions, gaming operation revenues can be forfeited to the state under certain circumstances. No assurance can be given that any licenses, permits, or approvals will be obtained by Lakes or its subsidiaries, or if obtained, will be renewed or not revoked in the future. In addition, the rejection or termination of a license, permit, or approval of Lakes or any of its employees or security holders in any jurisdiction may have adverse consequences in other jurisdictions. Certain jurisdictions require gaming operators licensed therein to seek approval from the state before conducting gaming in other jurisdictions. Lakes and its subsidiaries may be required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to Regulatory Authorities. The political and regulatory environment for gaming is dynamic and rapidly changing. The laws, regulations, and procedures pertaining to gaming are subject to the interpretation of the Regulatory Authorities and may be amended. Any changes in such laws, regulations, or their interpretations could have a material adverse effect on Lakes. Certain specific provisions to which Lakes is currently subject are described below. Indian gaming regulation The terms and conditions of management contracts for the operation of Indian-owned casinos, and of all gaming on Indian land in the United States, are subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (“IGRA”), which is administered by the NIGC, and also are subject to the provisions of statutes relating to contracts with Indian tribes, which are administered by the Secretary of the Interior (the “Secretary”) and the BIA. The regulations and guidelines under which NIGC will administer the IGRA are evolving. The IGRA and those regulations and guidelines are subject to interpretation by the Secretary and NIGC and may be subject to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment. Lakes may need to provide the BIA or NIGC with background information on each of its directors and each shareholder who holds five percent or more of Lakes’ stock (“5% Shareholders”), including a complete financial statement, a description of such person’s gaming experience, and a list of jurisdictions in which such person holds gaming licenses. Background investigations of key employees also may be required. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation contain provisions requiring directors and 5% Shareholders to provide such information. The IGRA currently requires NIGC to approve management contracts and certain collateral agreements for Indian-owned casinos. The NIGC may review any of Lakes’ management contracts and collateral agreements for compliance with the IGRA at any time in the future. The NIGC will not approve a management contract if a director or a 5% Shareholder of the management company (i) is an elected member of the Indian tribal government that owns the facility purchasing or leasing the games; (ii) has been or is convicted of a felony gaming offense; (iii) has knowingly and willfully provided materially false information to the NIGC or the tribe; (iv) has refused to respond to questions from the NIGC; or (v) is a person whose prior history, reputation and associations pose a threat to the public interest or to effective gaming regulation and control, or create or enhance the chance of unsuitable activities in gaming or the business and financial arrangements incidental thereto. In addition, the NIGC will not approve a management contract if the management company or any of its agents have attempted to unduly influence any decision or process of tribal government relating to gaming, or if the management company has materially breached the terms of the management contract or the tribe’s gaming ordinance, or a trustee exercising due diligence would not approve such management contract. A management contract can be approved only after NIGC determines that the contract provides, among other things, for (i) adequate accounting procedures and verifiable financial reports, which must be furnished to the tribe; (ii) tribal access to the daily operations of the gaming enterprise, including the right to verify daily gross revenues and income; (iii) minimum guaranteed payments to the tribe, which must have priority over the retirement of development and construction costs; (iv) a ceiling on the repayment of such development and construction costs; and (v) a contract term not exceeding five years and a management fee not exceeding 30% of profits; provided that 12 the NIGC may approve up to a seven-year term if NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, the risk exposure, and the income projections for the particular gaming activity justify the longer term. The IGRA established three separate classes of tribal gaming — Class I, Class II, and Class III. Class I includes all traditional or social games played by a tribe in connection with celebrations or ceremonies. Class II gaming includes games such as bingo, pull-tabs, punch boards, instant bingo and card games that are not played against the house. Class III gaming includes casino-style gaming including table games such as blackjack, craps and roulette, as well as gaming machines such as slots, video poker, lotteries, and pari-mutuel wagering. The IGRA prohibits substantially all forms of Class III gaming unless the tribe has entered into a written agreement with the state in which the casino is located that specifically authorizes the types of commercial gaming the tribe may offer (a “Tribal-state compact”). The IGRA requires states to negotiate in good faith with tribes that seek Tribal-state compacts, and grants Indian tribes the right to seek a federal court order to compel such negotiations. Many states have refused to enter into such negotiations. Tribes in several states have sought federal court orders to compel such negotiations under the IGRA; however, the Supreme Court of the United States held in 1996 that the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution immunizes states from suit by Indian tribes in federal court without the states’ consent. Because Indian tribes are currently unable to compel states to negotiate tribal-state compacts, Lakes may not be able to develop and manage casinos in states that refuse to enter into or renew tribal-state compacts. In addition to the IGRA, tribal-owned gaming facilities on Indian land are subject to a number of other federal statutes. The operation of gaming on Indian land is dependent upon whether the law of the state in which the casino is located permits gaming by non-Indian entities, which may change over time. Any such changes in state law may have a material adverse effect on the casinos managed by Lakes. Title 25, Section 81 of the United States Code states that “no agreement shall be made by any person with any tribe of Indians, or individual Indians not citizens of the United States, for the payment or delivery of any money or other thing of value in consideration of services for said Indians relative to their lands unless such contract or agreement be executed and approved” by the Secretary or his or her designee. An agreement or contract for services relative to Indian lands that fails to conform with the requirements of Section 81 will be void and unenforceable. Any money or other thing of value paid to any person by any Indian or tribe for or on his or their behalf, on account of such services, in excess of any amount approved by the Secretary or his or her authorized representative will be subject to forfeiture. Indian tribes are sovereign nations with their own governmental systems which have primary regulatory authority over gaming on land within the tribe’s jurisdiction. Because of their sovereign status, Indian tribes possess immunity from lawsuits to which the tribes have not otherwise consented or otherwise waived their sovereign immunity defense. Therefore, no contractual obligations undertaken by tribes to Lakes would be enforceable by Lakes unless the tribe has expressly waived its sovereign immunity as to such obligations. Lakes has obtained immunity waivers from each of the tribes to enforce the terms of its management agreements; however, the scope of those waivers has never been tested in court, and may be subject to dispute. Additionally, persons engaged in gaming activities, including Lakes, are subject to the provisions of tribal ordinances and regulations on gaming. These ordinances are subject to review by NIGC under certain standards established by the IGRA. Non-gaming regulation Lakes and its subsidiaries are subject to certain federal, state, and local safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses generally, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Resource Conservation Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with such regulations. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with such laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional cost to our operations. 13 WPTE regulation The WPT tournaments are conducted by the host casinos and card rooms, and WPTE believes it is not subject to government gaming regulation in connection with its affiliation with and telecasts of these events. WPTE’s online gaming website, WorldPokerTour.com, is subject to gaming regulation outside the United States and is regulated by the Lottery and Gaming Authority, located in Malta. The website is currently operated by CryptoLogic, which is obligated to ensure that WorldPokerTour.com does not permit bets from players in the United States and other restricted jurisdictions. While WPTE believes that CryptoLogic will be in compliance with all international regulations, WPTE cannot be certain that CryptoLogic will be allowed to accept wagers in all the markets WPTE plans to enter. WPTE continues to monitor the legality of Internet gaming in domestic and international jurisdictions, but cannot be certain that changes in existing regulations will be beneficial to the online gaming market. Additionally, WPTE anticipates that on-air promotion of WorldPokerTour.com via international WPT and Professional Poker Tour television telecasts and through WPTE’s relationship with Party Gaming will be a primary marketing tool for driving poker players to the site. However, certain territories and foreign networks may restrict WPTE from incorporating marketing elements related to WPTE’s online site into WPTE’s international telecast and certain laws or regulations may restrict the type of advertising in general in those territories. WPTE’s subscription based online club, ClubWPT.com, offers membership benefits which include a monthly magazine subscription, discount coupons, statistical rankings, educational material, live chat and the opportunity to play in online poker tournaments for cash and prizes. The tournament aspect of the club is operated in accordance with the principles of sweepstakes law. A free alternative means of entry is offered for participants who wish to play in the tournaments but do not wish to purchase the other membership benefits. The subscription fee for ClubWPT remains the same each month and players are not allowed to wager actual money online. One must be 18 or older to participate. Intellectual Property The following is a discussion of Lakes’ intellectual property, which did not provide a significant financial contribution to Lakes in fiscal 2007. Trademarks Lakes owns two United States registrations for the mark FOUR THE MONEY® used in connection with casino table games. Lakes has also received approval for registration of the service mark CARLOS SOPRANO’Stm, to be used in connection with restaurant and related entertainment services. Patents Lakes owns or has exclusive rights to several United States patents and patent applications for various casino games sold by Lakes. The issued patents expire at various times over the next 10 to 20 years. Licenses Lakes has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to all patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights related to a casino table game developed by Sklansky Games, LLC, subject to certain marketing restrictions. This license also includes the right to use the trademark ALL-IN HOLD’EM POKERtm. Lakes also has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to use the name “World Poker Tour”, a tutorial video and the trademark WORLD POKER TOUR and Design in connection with any casino table game or video-enhanced table game used in any legal commercial gaming establishment. Both licenses will remain in effect as long as Lakes pays minimum annual performance royalty payments, as defined in the license agreements. 14 Real Estate Holdings Lakes has parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to its corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to its planned Lakes-owned casino. Employees At December 30, 2007, Lakes had 49 full-time employees. WPTE had 71 full-time employees. Lakes believes its relations with employees are satisfactory. Lakes has assembled a strong team of gaming industry experts, well-versed in all aspects of casino development, construction and management, many of whom were involved with the success of Grand Casinos. The Lakes team has individual specialists on staff mirroring each of the functional areas found in a casino project. The functional areas include gaming operations, construction and development, finance/accounting, legal/regulatory, security, systems/information technology, food & beverage, retail, marketing and human resources. Lakes’ management believes this team represents a valuable asset that provides a competitive advantage in creating and enhancing relationships with Indian tribes in the Indian casino business and in the pursuit of non-Indian casino opportunities. Website and Available Information Our website is located at www.lakesentertainment.com. Information on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents are available to our shareholders at our website or upon written request to our President and Chief Financial Officer at 130 Cheshire Lane, Suite 101, Minnetonka, MN 55305. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. The completion of our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Although we have experience developing and managing casinos owned by Indian tribes and located on Indian land, neither we nor any of these individuals has developed or managed a casino in the State of California and we only have limited experience for developing and managing casinos in Michigan and Oklahoma. The opening of each of our proposed facilities will be contingent upon, among other things, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open these facilities will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such facilities or otherwise affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. No assurances can be given that once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities will begin or will be completed on time, or any other time, or that the budget for these projects will not be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Certain of our casino projects have 15 been significantly delayed as a result of such litigation, and there is no assurance that the litigation can be successfully resolved or that our casino projects will not experience further significant delays before resolution. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. Any significant delay in, or non-completion of, our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The Four Winds Casino Resort opened to the public on August 2, 2007 and is currently the only significant casino management-related operating revenue with which to offset the investment costs associated with our current or future casino development projects. Delays in the completion of our current development projects, or the failure of such projects to be completed at all, may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, once developed, no assurances can be given that these casinos will operate on a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the various operations profitable independently. With each project we are subject to the risk that our investment may be lost if the project cannot obtain adequate financing to complete development and open the casino successfully. In some cases, we may be forced to provide more financing than we originally planned in order to complete development, increasing the risk to us in the event of a default by the casino. In addition, because our future growth in revenues and our ability to generate profits will depend to a large extent on our ability to increase the number of our managed casinos or develop new business opportunities, the delays in the completion or the non-completion of our current development projects may adversely affect our ability to realize future growth in revenues and future profits. The termination of our management, development, consulting or financing agreements with Indian tribes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements provide that such contracts may be terminated under certain circumstances, including without limitation, upon the failure to obtain NIGC approval for the project, the loss of requisite gaming licenses, or an exercise by an Indian tribe of its buy out option. Without the realization of new business opportunities or new management, development, consulting or financing agreements, termination of our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our current casino development projects are not completed or fail to successfully compete once completed, we may lack the funds to compete for and develop future gaming or other business opportunities which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our planned managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. 16 We could be prevented from completing our current casino development projects or pursuing future development projects due to changes in the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) that apply to gaming facilities or our inability or the inability of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain gaming regulatory licenses. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. The political and regulatory environment in which we operate, including with respect to gaming activities on Indian land, is discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Business-Regulation” in Item 1. If the NIGC elects to modify the terms of our management contracts with Indian tribes or void such contracts altogether, our revenues from management contracts may be reduced or eliminated. The NIGC has the power to require modifications to Indian management contracts under certain circumstances or to void such contracts or ancillary agreements including loan agreements if the management company fails to obtain requisite approvals or to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The NIGC has the right to review each contract and has the authority to reduce the term of a management contract or the management fee or otherwise require modification of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on us. Currently, only the Pokagon Band and the Shingle Springs Tribe management contracts have been approved by the NIGC. The other management contracts have not received final approval by the NIGC and may require modification prior to receiving approval. If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management, development, consulting or financing agreements with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to Indian tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos to be managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from an Indian tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. We have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to an Indian tribe and other distributions due from an Indian tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the Indian tribe to other parties related to the casino operations. Accordingly, in the event of a default by an Indian tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the Indian tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the Indian tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delays in the completion of a casino development project with that Indian tribe or even force us to abandon a casino development project altogether and prevent or significantly impede recovery of our investment therein. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our proposed and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and effectuate management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing an Indian tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of Indian tribe officials or administrations, changes in policies to 17 which an Indian tribe is subject, or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe may cause delays in the completion of a development project with that Indian tribe or prevent the project’s completion altogether, which may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. As previously announced, our professional relationships with the tribal officials of the Kickapoo Tribe and the Pawnee Nation have deteriorated. The casino development projects were adversely impacted, which has resulted in the termination of the Kickapoo Tribe casino project in 2005 and the Pawnee Nation casino projects in 2007. If funds from our operations are insufficient to support our cash requirements or if we are unable to liquidate our investments in auction rate securities (“ARS”) to provide liquidity when and as needed, and we are unable to obtain additional financing in order to satisfy these requirements we may, be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals, or cease our operations entirely. We may require additional capital through either public or private financings to meet operating and development expenses during fiscal 2008 and we are currently considering various financing alternatives. If the financing is in the form of equity financing it will be dilutive to our shareholders, and any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants. We may raise additional capital through either public or private financings or the sale of some or all of our shares of WPTE. An inability to raise such funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. If one or more of our Indian casino projects fail to open, the recorded assets related to those projects will be impaired and there may be a material adverse impact on our financial results. We record assets related to Indian casino projects on our consolidated balance sheet as long-term assets related to Indian casino projects. The majority of our long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are in the form of loans to the Indian tribes pursuant to our financing agreements with varying degrees of collection risk, and with repayment often dependent on the operating performance of each gaming property. These loans are included as notes receivable on the consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At December 30, 2007, we had $157.5 million in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $78.8 million was in the form of notes receivable, which are recorded at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. The notes receivable represented approximately 31% of our total assets. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The loans are made to Indian tribes for pre-construction financing related to gaming properties being developed by us. All of the loans are subject to varying degrees of collection risk and there is no established market. For the loans representing indebtedness of Indian tribes, the repayment terms are specific to each Indian tribe and are largely dependent upon the operating performance of each gaming property. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the related casinos. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in the management contracts. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management contracts are subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the respective Indian tribes. Included in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are intangible assets related to the acquisition of management contracts, land held for development and other costs incurred in connection with opening the Indian casinos of $65.9 million, $7.6 million and $5.2 million, respectively, at December 30, 2007. It is possible that one or more of our Indian casino projects will fail to open, which will render the majority of the assets related to the failed Indian casino project impaired. See our accounting policy within Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During September 2005, legislation was proposed to amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casino projects. During September 2005, the Department of Justice proposed legislation that would amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 (commonly referred to as the Johnson Act). The proposal seeks to clarify the difference between Class II and Class III gaming devices. It prohibits Indian tribes from operating gaming devices that resemble slot machines without a tribal-state compact. The legislation proposes to amend the Johnson Act in three 18 significant ways. First, the definition of “gaming device” in Section 1171 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify how the element of chance can be provided in a gaming device. Second, Section 1172 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify that certain “qualifying” technologic aids could be transported and used in Indian country. Third, a new Section (d) would be added to Section 1175 of the Johnson Act to provide an express exception to allow technological devices to be used in Class II gaming. This proposed legislation concerning the Johnson Act amendments has never been introduced as a bill in Congress, but if passed it could affect our planned casino operations for the Shingle Springs Tribe and the Jamul Tribe which could affect management/consulting fees to be received by us under the respective projects. Class II gaming devices are currently planned to be used at the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casinos. If the Department of Justice proposed legislation were ever passed there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used by the above-mentioned projects. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In October 2007, the NIGC issued revised proposed regulations concerning classification of gaming devices which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casino projects. In May 2006, in response to the Department of Justice decision not to proceed with its proposed legislation to amend the Johnson Act, the NIGC proposed new regulations concerning the classification of gaming devices. These proposed regulations, if adopted, could restrict the types of gaming devices permitted as Class II games under IGRA, and such restrictions could limit the type of gaming devices planned to be used at the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casinos. If the NIGC proposed regulations were adopted as published, there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used by the above-mentioned projects. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In February 2007, after receiving numerous negative comments to the proposed regulations from tribes and industry companies, the NIGC withdrew its proposed rules and indicated it would attempt to review and modify the proposed regulations and publish a new version at a later date. On October 24, 2007, the NIGC published its revised proposed rules concerning the classification of games and companion proposed rules related to technical standards for Class II gaming devices, revised definitions for determining Class III gaming devices and minimum internal control standards for Class II gaming. These revised proposed rules, if implemented and enforced, could materially adversely affect the appeal and operating results of Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used in the above-mentioned projects. The NIGC met with its tribal advisory committee on February 29, 2008 to discuss any comments received and to provide further advice to the NIGC on the matter. The comment period on the revised proposed regulations expired on March 9, 2008. The revised proposed regulations have already received substantial criticism from tribes and industry companies and lawsuits challenging the revised proposed regulations are likely if final regulations substantially similar to the revised proposed regulations are adopted. These lawsuits could delay the implementation of the revised proposed regulations for some time or completely if the lawsuits are successful. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We have announced that part of our strategy involves diversifying into other businesses such as developing and owning our own non-tribal casino and the development and marketing of our own table games. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services, and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. There is no assurance that diversification activities will successfully add to our future revenues and income. 19 We cannot guarantee the financial results of the expansion of the World Poker Tour business, which may negatively impact our financial results. As of December 30, 2007, we, through our subsidiary Lakes Poker Tour, LLC, owned approximately 61% of the outstanding common stock of WPT Enterprises, Inc., referred to as WPTE. As a result, our consolidated results included WPTE operations. Revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, referred to as fiscal 2006, and the fiscal year ended December 30, 2007, referred to as fiscal 2007, were primarily derived from WPTE. We cannot guarantee the financial results of the expansion of the World Poker Tour business, which may negatively impact our financial results. We can provide no assurance that WPTE will achieve its forecasted revenues, that WPTE will be able to expand its business, or that WPTE’s operations will positively impact our financial results because WPTE’s business is subject to many risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, WPTE’s significant dependence on the Travel Channel as a current source of revenue and GSN as a future source of revenue, and the risk that GSN will not exercise its options to air seasons of the WPT series beyond Season Six; difficulty of predicting the growth of WPTE’s online gaming business, which is a relatively new industry with an increasing number of market entrants; reliance on the efforts of CryptoLogic to develop and maintain WPTE’s online gaming website in compliance with WPTE’s business model and applicable gaming laws; the potential that WPTE’s television programming will fail to maintain a sufficient audience; the risk that competitors with greater financial resources or marketplace presence might develop television programming that would directly compete with WPTE’s television programming; the risk that WPTE may not be able to protect its entertainment concepts, current and future brands and other intellectual property rights; risks associated with future expansion into new or complementary businesses; the termination or impairment of WPTE’s relationships with key licensing and strategic partners; WPTE’s dependence on its senior management team; WPTE is highly dependent on third-parties for the success of the Traktor Poker Tour in China and there is no guarantee that it will be able to monetize its rights in China; and any change of laws in various states or countries in relating to sweepstakes, promotions and giveaways or a negative finding of law regarding the characterization of the type of online activity carried out on ClubWPT could result in WPTE’s inability to take subscribers in those jurisdictions, which in turn could significantly impact WPTE’s ability to generate revenue. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 prohibits online gambling in the United States of America. Congress passing of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act or future government regulation of online gaming in the United States may restrict the activities or affect the financial results of WPTE’s online gaming venture currently operating and WPTE’s new online gaming venture in development. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lyle Berman, and the loss of his services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. We have obtained a $20 million key man life insurance policy on him. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our Bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may 20 include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. In connection with closing on a $50 million financing facility in February 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the creation of class of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with contingent conversion rights and limited voting rights, and we issued an aggregate of approximately 4.5 million shares of such preferred stock to an affiliate of the lender. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any other class of preferred stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; • changes in requirements or demands for our services or WPTE’s products; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options and warrants to acquire our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 30, 2007, we had options outstanding to acquire 4.3 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $3.25 to $18.16 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $5.95 per share. During the terms of these options, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher than the respective exercise or conversion price. In addition, the increase in the outstanding shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise or conversion of these options could result in a significant decrease in the percentage ownership of our common stock by the purchasers of its common stock. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of December 30, 2007, these shares consist of approximately 3.9 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 21 