Item 1A. Risk FactorsIn addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating the Company. An investment in the Company is subject to risks inherent in our business. The trading price of the shares of the Company is affected by the performance of our business relative to, among other things, competition, market conditions and general economic and industry conditions. The value of an investment in the Company may decrease, resulting in a loss.We have no ability to control the market price for natural gas and oil. Natural gas and oil prices fluctuate widely, and a substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices would adversely affect our revenues, profitability and growth and could have a material adverse effect on the business, the results of operations and financial condition of the Company.13Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsOur revenues, profitability and future growth depend significantly on natural gas and crude oil prices. Prices received affect the amount of future cash flow available for capital expenditures and repayment of indebtedness and our ability to raise additional capital. We do not expect to hedge our production to protect against price decreases. Lower prices may also affect the amount of natural gas and oil that we can economically produce. Factors that can cause price fluctuations include:• Overall economic conditions.• The domestic and foreign supply of natural gas and oil.• The level of consumer product demand.• Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters.• The price and availability of competitive fuels such as LNG, heating oil and coal.• Political conditions in the Middle East and other natural gas and oil producing regions.• The level of LNG imports and any LNG exports.• Domestic and foreign governmental regulations.• Special taxes on production.• Access to pipelines and gas processing plants.• The loss of tax credits and deductions.A substantial or extended decline in natural gas and oil prices could have a material adverse effect on our access to capital and the quantities of natural gas and oil that may be economically produced by us. A significant decrease in price levels for an extended period would negatively affect us.We depend on the services of our Chairman and implementation of our business plan could be seriously harmed if we lost his services.We depend heavily on the services of Mr. Kenneth R. Peak, our Chairman, who received a medical leave of absence from the Company for up to six months in August 2012. The proceeds from a $10.0 million “key person” life insurance policy on Mr. Peak may not be adequate to cover our losses in the event of Mr. Peak’s death.We are highly dependent on the technical services provided by JEX and could be seriously harmed if JEX terminated its services with us or became otherwise unavailable.Because we employ no geoscientists, we are dependent upon JEX for the success of our natural gas and oil exploration projects and expect to remain so for the foreseeable future. We have entered into an Advisory Agreement with JEX, whereby in addition to generating and evaluating offshore and onshore exploration prospects for the Company, JEX will direct Contango’s staff on operational matters including drilling, completions and production. The Advisory Agreement is effective for a term of two years from April 1, 2012, and continues on a month-to-month basis thereafter. In August 2012, Mr. Brad Juneau was elected President and Acting Chief Executive Officer during Mr. Peak's medical leave of absence. Highly qualified explorationists and engineers are difficult to attract and retain. As a result, the loss of the services of JEX could have a material adverse effect on us and could prevent us from pursuing our business plan. Additionally, the loss by JEX of certain explorationists could have a material adverse effect on our operations as well. Our ability to successfully execute our business plan is dependent on our ability to obtain adequate financing.Our business plan, which includes participation in 3-D seismic shoots, lease acquisitions, the drilling of exploration prospects and producing property acquisitions, has required and is expected to continue to require substantial capital expenditures. We may require additional financing to fund our planned growth. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on the results of our operations and the status of various capital and industry markets at the time we seek such capital. Accordingly, additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In the event additional capital resources are unavailable, we may be required to curtail our exploration and development activities or be forced to sell some of our assets in an untimely fashion or on less than favorable terms.It is difficult to quantify the amount of financing we may need to fund our planned growth. The amount of funding we may need in the future depends on various factors such as:• Our financial condition.• The prevailing market price of natural gas and oil.• The type of projects in which we are engaging.• The lead time required to bring any discoveries to production.14Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWe frequently obtain capital through the sale of our producing properties.The Company, since its inception in September 1999, has raised approximately $524 million from various property sales. These sales bring forward future revenues and cash flows, but our longer term liquidity could be impaired to the extent our exploration efforts are not successful in generating new discoveries, production, revenues and cash flows. Additionally, our longer term liquidity could be impaired due to the decrease in our inventory of producing properties that could be sold in future periods. Further, as a result of these property sales the Company’s ability to collateralize bank borrowings is reduced which increases our dependence on more expensive mezzanine debt and potential equity sales. The availability of such funds will depend upon prevailing market conditions and other factors over which we have no control, as well as our financial condition and results of operations.We assume additional risk as operator in drilling high pressure and high temperature wells in the Gulf of Mexico.COI, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, was formed for the purpose of drilling and operating exploration wells in the Gulf of Mexico. Drilling activities are subject to numerous risks, including the significant risk that no commercially productive hydrocarbon reserves will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells and of installing production facilities and pipelines is often uncertain. Drilling costs could be significantly higher if we encounter difficulty in drilling offshore exploration wells. The Company’s drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed, canceled or negatively impacted as a result of numerous factors, including title problems, weather conditions, compliance with governmental requirements and shortages or delays in the delivery or availability of material, equipment and fabrication yards. In periods of increased drilling activity resulting from high commodity prices, demand exceeds availability for drilling rigs,drilling vessels, supply boats and personnel experienced in the oil and gas industry in general, and the offshore oil and gas industry in particular. This may lead to difficulty and delays in consistently obtaining certain services and equipment from vendors, obtaining drilling rigs and other equipment at favorable rates and scheduling equipment fabrication at factories and fabrication yards. This, in turn, may lead to projects being delayed or experiencing increased costs. The cost of drilling, completing, and operating wells is often uncertain, and new wells may not be productive or we may not recover all or any of our investment. The risk of significant cost overruns, curtailments, delays, inability to reach our target reservoir and other factors detrimental to drilling and completion operations may be higher due to our inexperience as an operator. Additionally, we use turnkey contracts that may cost more than non-turnkey drilling contracts at daily rates. Should our contracts come off turnkey or should such turnkey contracts be terminated by the turnkey drilling contractor, our drilling costs could be significantly higher.We rely on third-party operators to operate and maintain some of our production platforms, pipelines and processing facilities and, as a result, we have limited control over the operations of such facilities. The interests of an operator may differ from our interests.We depend upon the services of third-party operators to operate production platforms, pipelines, gas processing facilities and the infrastructure required to produce and market our natural gas, condensate and oil. We have limited influence over the conduct of operations by third-party operators. As a result, we have little control over how frequently and how long our production is shut-in when production problems, weather and other production shut-ins occur. Poor performance on the part of, or errors or accidents attributable to, the operator of a project in which we participate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, the interest of an operator may differ from our interests.Repeated production shut-ins can possibly damage our well bores.Our well bores are required to be shut-in from time to time due to a variety of issues, including a combination of weather, mechanical problems, sand production, bottom sediment, water and paraffin associated with our condensate production at our Eugene Island 11 platform, as well as downstream third-party facility and pipeline shut-ins. In addition, shut-ins are necessary from time to time to upgrade and improve the production handling capacity at related downstream platform, gas processing and pipeline infrastructure. In addition to negatively impacting our near term revenues and cash flow, repeated production shut-ins may damage our well bores if repeated excessively or not executed properly. The loss of a well bore due to damage could require us to drill additional wells.Concentrating our capital investment in the Gulf of Mexico increases our exposure to risk.The vast majority of our capital investments is primarily focused in offshore Gulf of Mexico exploration prospects, which may result in a total loss of our investment. Furthermore, even our productive wells may not result in profitable operations. Gulf of Mexico exploration efforts have been undertaken for over 60 years and remaining prospects are at deeper 15Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementshorizons that are more expensive to drill and often in much deeper water depths. Accordingly, as a result, a number of companies have shifted their focus to onshore “shale plays.” The Company’s continuing focus on the Gulf of Mexico will result in significant dry hole costs, perhaps in excess of $30 million for one well, which significantly concentrates and increases our risk profile.Natural gas and oil reserves are depleting assets and the failure to replace our reserves would adversely affect our production and cash flows.Our future natural gas and oil production depends on our success in finding or acquiring new reserves. If we fail to replace reserves, our level of production and cash flows will be adversely impacted. Production from natural gas and oil properties decline as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our total proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced unless we conduct other successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both. Further, the majority of our reserves are proved developed producing. Accordingly, we do not have significant opportunities to increase our production from our existing proved reserves. Our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of natural gas and oil reserves would be impaired to the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable. We may not be successful in exploring for, developing or acquiring additional reserves. If we are not successful, our future production and revenues will be adversely affected.Reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may turn out to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could materially affect the quantities of our reserves.There are numerous uncertainties in estimating crude oil and natural gas reserves and their value, including many factors that are beyond our control. It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors. Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could materially affect the estimated quantities of reserves shown in this report.In order to prepare these estimates, our independent third-party petroleum engineers must project production rates and timing of development expenditures as well as analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary. The process also requires economic assumptions relating to matters such as natural gas and oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. Actual future production, natural gas and oil prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserves most likely will vary from our estimates. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and pre-tax net present value of reserves shown in a reserve report. In addition, estimates of our proved reserves may be adjusted to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas and oil prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control and may prove to be incorrect over time. As a result, our estimates may require substantial upward or downward revisions if subsequent drilling, testing and production reveal different results. Furthermore, some of the producing wells included in our reserve report have produced for a relatively short period of time. Accordingly, some of our reserve estimates are not based on a multi-year production decline curve and are calculated using a reservoir simulation model together with volumetric analysis. Any downward adjustment could indicate lower future production and thus adversely affect our financial condition, future prospects and market value.The Company’s reserves and revenues are primarily concentrated in one field.Approximately 82% of our reserves are assigned to our Dutch and Mary Rose discoveries which have ten producing well bores concentrated in one reservoir on one field, and are producing through two production platforms. Reserve assessments based on only ten well bores in one reservoir are subject to significantly greater risk of being shut-in for a variety of weather, platform and pipeline difficulties. In addition, the risk of a downward revision in our reserve estimates is also greater.We rely on the accuracy of the estimates in the reservoir engineering reports provided to us by our outside engineer.We have no in house reservoir engineering capability, and therefore rely on the accuracy of the periodic reservoir reports provided to us by our independent third-party reservoir engineer. If those reports prove to be inaccurate, our financial reports could have material misstatements. Further, we use the reports of our independent reservoir engineer in our financial planning. If the reports of the outside reservoir engineer prove to be inaccurate, we may make misjudgments in our financial planning.16Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsExploration is a high risk activity, and our participation in drilling activities may not be successful.Our future success largely depends on the success of our exploration drilling program. Participation in exploration drilling activities involves numerous risks, including the significant risk that no commercially productive natural gas or oil reservoirs will be discovered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:• Unexpected drilling conditions.• Blowouts, fires or explosions with resultant injury, death or environmental damage.• Pressure, temperature or other irregularities in formations.• Equipment failures and/or accidents caused by human error.• Tropical storms, hurricanes and other adverse weather conditions.• Compliance with governmental requirements and laws, present and future.• Shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment.• Our turnkey drilling contracts reverting to a day rate contract or our turnkey contractor electing to terminate the turnkey contract would significantly increase the cost and risk to the Company.• Problems at third-party operated platforms, pipelines and gas processing facilities over which we have no control.Even when properly used and interpreted, 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators. They do not allow the interpreter to know conclusively if hydrocarbons are present or economically producible. Poor results from our drilling activities would materially and adversely affect our future cash flows and results of operations. In addition, as a “successful efforts” company, we choose to account for unsuccessful exploration efforts (the drilling of “dry holes”) and seismic costs as a current expense of operations, which immediately impacts our earnings. Significant expensed exploration charges in any period would materially adversely affect our earnings for that period and cause our earnings to be volatile from period to period.Production activities in the Gulf of Mexico increase our susceptibility to pollution and natural resource damage.A blowout, rupture or spill of any magnitude would present serious operational and financial challenges. All of the Company’s operations in the Gulf of Mexico shelf are in water depths of less than 200 feet and less than 50 miles from the coast. Such proximity to the shore-line increases the probability of a biological impact or damaging the fragile eco-system in the event of released condensate.Possible regulation related to global warming and climate change could have an adverse effect on our operations and demand for oil and natural gas.Studies over recent years have indicated that emissions of certain gases may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to these studies, governments have begun adopting domestic and international climate change regulations that require reporting and reductions in the emission of greenhouse gases. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of the burning of oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products, are considered greenhouse gases. Internationally, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and the Kyoto Protocol address greenhouse gas emissions, and several countries including countries in the European Union have established greenhouse gas regulatory systems. In the United States, at the state level, many states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs or have begun considering adopting greenhouse gas regulatory programs.The Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) has issued greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting regulations that went into effect January 1, 2010, and require reporting by regulated facilities by March 2011 and annually thereafter. In November 2010, the EPA issued a final rule requiring companies to report certain greenhouse gas emissions from oil and natural gas facilities. Beyond measuring and reporting, the EPA issued an “Endangerment Finding” under section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act, concluding greenhouse gas pollution threatens the public health and welfare of current and future generations. The finding serves as a first step to issuing regulations that would require permits for and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions for certain facilities. EPA has proposed such greenhouse gas regulations and may issue final rules at a subsequent date.Several decisions have been issued by courts that may increase the risk of claims being filed by governments and private parties against companies that have significant greenhouse gas emissions. Such cases may seek to challenge air emissions permits that greenhouse gas emitters apply for and seek to force emitters to reduce their emissions or seek damages 17Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementsfor alleged climate change impacts to the environment, people, and property.Any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of greenhouse gases could require us to incur increased operating and compliance costs, and could have an adverse effect on demand for the natural gas and condensate that we produce.The natural gas and oil business involves many operating risks that can cause substantial losses and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur.The natural gas and oil business involves a variety of operating risks, including:• Blowouts, fires and explosions.• Surface cratering.• Uncontrollable flows of underground natural gas, oil or formation water.• Natural disasters.• Pipe and cement failures.• Casing collapses.• Stuck drilling and service tools.• Reservoir compaction.• Abnormal pressure formations.• Environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures or discharges of toxic gases.• Capacity constraints, equipment malfunctions and other problems at third-party operated platforms, pipelines and gas processing plants over which we have no control.• Repeated shut-ins of our well bores could significantly damage our well bores.• Required workovers of existing wells that may not be successful.If any of the above events occur, we could incur substantial losses as a result of:• Injury or loss of life.• Reservoir damage.• Severe damage to and destruction of property or equipment.• Pollution and other environmental damage.• Clean-up responsibilities.• Regulatory investigations and penalties.• Suspension of our operations or repairs necessary to resume operations.Offshore operations are subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing and collisions. In addition, offshore operations, and in some instances, operations along the Gulf Coast, are subject to damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce the funds available for exploration, development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of properties.If we were to experience any of these problems, it could affect well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, any one of which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. In accordance with customary industry practices, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. We may not be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable, and particular types of coverage may not be available. An event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.Not hedging our production may result in losses.Due to the significant volatility in natural gas prices and the potential risk of significant hedging losses if our production should be shut-in during a period when NYMEX natural gas prices increase, our policy is to hedge only through the purchase of puts. By not hedging our production, we may be more adversely affected by declines in natural gas and oil prices than our competitors who engage in hedging arrangements.18Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsOur ability to market our natural gas and oil may be impaired by capacity constraints and equipment malfunctions on the platforms, gathering systems, pipelines and gas plants that transport and process our natural gas and oil.All of our natural gas and oil is transported through gathering systems, pipelines and processing plants. Transportation capacity on gathering system pipelines and platforms is occasionally limited and at times unavailable due to repairs or improvements being made to these facilities or due to capacity being utilized by other natural gas or oil shippers that may have priority transportation agreements. If the gathering systems, processing plants, platforms or our transportation capacity is materially restricted or is unavailable in the future, our ability to market our natural gas or oil could be impaired and cash flow from the affected properties could be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, repeated shut-ins of our wells could result in damage to our well bores that would impair our ability to produce from these wells and could result in additional wells being required to produce our reserves.We may not have title to our leased interests and if any lease is later rendered invalid, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site.Our practice in acquiring exploration leases or undivided interests in natural gas and oil leases is to not incur the expense of retaining title lawyers to examine the title to the mineral interest prior to executing the lease. Instead, we rely upon the judgment of JEX and others to perform the field work in examining records in the appropriate governmental, county or parish clerk’s office before leasing a specific mineral interest. This practice is widely followed in the industry. Prior to the drilling of an exploration well the operator of the well will typically obtain a preliminary title review of the drillsite lease and/or spacing unit within which the proposed well is to be drilled to identify any obvious deficiencies in title to the well and, if there are deficiencies, to identify measures necessary to cure those defects to the extent reasonably possible. However, such deficiencies may not have been cured by the operator of such wells. It does happen, from time to time, that the examination made by title lawyers reveals that the lease or leases are invalid, having been purchased in error from a person who is not the rightful owner of the mineral interest desired. In these circumstances, we may not be able to proceed with our exploration and development of the lease site or may incur costs to remedy a defect. It may also happen, from time to time, that the operator may elect to proceed with a well despite defects to the title identified in the preliminary title opinion.Competition in the natural gas and oil industry is intense, and we are smaller and have a more limited operating history than many of our competitors.We compete with a broad range of natural gas and oil companies in our exploration and property acquisition activities. We also compete for the equipment and labor required to operate and to develop these properties. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These competitors may be able to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive natural gas and oil properties. Further, they may be able to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to explore for natural gas and oil and to acquire additional properties in the future depends on our ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. In addition, many of our competitors have been operating for a much longer time than we have and have substantially larger staffs. We may not be able to compete effectively with these companies or in such a highly competitive environment.Proposed United States federal budgets and pending legislation contain certain provisions that, if passed as originally submitted, will have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows.In February 2009, the US federal administration released its budget proposals for 2010, which included numerous proposed tax changes. In April 2009, legislation was introduced to further these objectives and in February 2010, the federal administration released similar budget proposals for 2011. The proposed budgets and legislation would repeal many tax incentives and deductions that are currently used by oil and gas companies in the United States and impose new taxes. Among others, the provisions include: elimination of the ability to fully deduct intangible drilling costs in the year incurred; repeal of the percentage depletion deduction for oil and gas properties; repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction for oil and gas companies; increase in the geological and geophysical amortization period for independent producers; and implementation of a fee on non-producing leases located on federal lands. Should some or all of these provisions become law, taxes on the E&P industry would increase, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Although these proposals initially were made in 2009, none have become law. It is still, however, the federal administration’s stated intention to enact legislation to repeal tax incentives and deductions and impose new taxes on oil and gas companies.19Table of ContentsIndex to Financial StatementsWe are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations governing the operation and maintenance of our facilities and the discharge of materials into the environment. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations could result in substantial penalties and have an adverse effect on us. These laws and regulations:• Require that we obtain permits before commencing drilling.• Restrict the substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities.• Limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas, such as wetlands or wilderness areas.• Require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells.Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury and clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We maintain only limited insurance coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability, or we may be required to cease production from properties in the event of environmental damages. These laws and regulations have been changed frequently in the past. In general, these changes have imposed more stringent requirements that increase operating costs or require capital expenditures in order to remain in compliance. It is also possible that unanticipated developments could cause us to make environmental expenditures that are significantly different from those we currently expect. Existing laws and regulations couldbe changed and any such changes could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Our operations in the Gulf of Mexico have been and may continue to be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations which have occurred and are expected to continue to occur as a result of the Deepwater Horizon Incident.In April 2010, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico drilling rig Deepwater Horizon was engaged in drilling operations for another operator and sank after an apparent blowout and fire. The accident resulted in the loss of life and a significant oil spill. As a result, the Department of the Interior issued additional safety and performance standards as well as rigorous monitoring and testing requirements for offshore drilling. In addition, various Congressional committees began pursuing legislation to regulate drilling activities, establish safety requirements and increase liability for oil spills.We continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments, including the Drilling Safety Rule and the Workforce Safety Rule issued by the Department of the Interior. However, the full legislative and regulatory response to the incident is not fully known. An expansion of safety and performance regulations or an increase in liability for drilling activities will have one or more of the following impacts on our business:• Increase the costs of drilling exploratory and development wells.• Cause delays in, or preclude, the development of projects in the Gulf of Mexico.• Result in longer time periods to obtain permits.• Result in higher operating costs.• Increase or remove liability caps for claims of damages from oil spills.• Limit our ability to obtain additional insurance coverage on commercially reasonable terms to protect against any increase in liability.Any of the above factors may result in a reduction of our cash flows, profitability, and the fair value of our properties.New regulatory requirements and permitting procedures have significantly delayed our ability to obtain permits to drill new wells in offshore waters.Subsequent to the Deepwater Horizon Incident in the Gulf of Mexico, a series of Notices to Lessees (“NTLs”) were issued which imposed new regulatory requirements and permitting procedures for new wells to be drilled in federal waters of the OCS. These new regulatory requirements include the following:• The Environmental NTL, which imposes new and more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases oil spill response requirements.• The Compliance and Review NTL, which imposes requirements for operators to secure independent reviews of well design, construction and flow intervention processes, and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers.20Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements• The Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain well bore integrity, and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams.• The Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to have a comprehensive SEMS in order to reduce human and• organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills.Since the adoption of these new regulatory requirements, BOEM has been taking much longer periods of time to review and approve permits for new wells. Due to the extremely slow pace of permit review and approval, the BOEM may now take four months or longer to approve applications for drilling permits that were previously approved in less than 30 days. The new rules also increase the cost of preparing each permit application and will increase the cost of each new well.The BSEE has implemented much more stringent controls and reporting requirements that if not followed, could result in significant monetary penalties or a shut-in of all or a portion of our Gulf of Mexico operations.The BSEE is the federal agency responsible for overseeing the safe and environmentally responsible development of energy and mineral resources on the OCS. They are responsible for leading the most aggressive and comprehensive reforms to offshore oil and gas regulation and oversight in U.S. history. Their reforms have tightened requirements for everything from well design and workplace safety to corporate accountability. One of the many reforms includes implementing a SEMS program. This program requires operators to identify, address, and manage safety and environmental hazards during the design, construction, start-up, operation, inspection, and maintenance of all new and existing facilities. Facilities must be designed, constructed, maintained, monitored, and operated in a manner compatible with industry codes, consensus standards, and allapplicable governmental regulations. Failure to comply with the SEMS program may force us to cease operations in the Gulf of Mexico.Additionally, the OCS Lands Act authorizes and requires the BSEE to provide for both an annual scheduled inspection and a periodic unscheduled (unannounced) inspection of all oil and gas operations on the OCS. In addition to examining all safety equipment designed to prevent blowouts, fires, spills, or other major accidents, the inspections focus on pollution, drilling operations, completions, workovers, production, and pipeline safety. Upon detecting a violation, the inspector issues an Incident of Noncompliance ("INC") to the operator and uses one of two main enforcement actions (warning or shut-in), depending on the severity of the violation. If the violation is not severe or threatening, a warning INC is issued. The warning INC must be corrected within a reasonable amount of time specified on the INC. The shut-in INC may be for a single component (a portion of the facility) or the entire facility. The violation must be corrected before the operator is allowed to resume the activity in question.In addition to the enforcement actions specified above, the BSEE can assess a civil penalty of up to $35,000 per violation per day if: 1) the operator fails to correct the violation in the reasonable amount of time specified on the INC; or 2) the violation resulted in a threat of serious harm or damage to human life or the environment. Operators with excessive INCs may be required to cease operations in the Gulf of Mexico.Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays.It is customary in our industry to recover natural gas and oil from shale and other formations through the use of horizontal drilling combined with hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is the process of creating or expanding cracks, or fractures, in formations using water, sand and other additives pumped under high pressure into the formation. We intend to use hydraulic fracturing as a means to increase the productivity of the onshore wells that we drill and complete.The hydraulic fracturing process is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions. Several states, including Pennsylvania, Texas, Colorado, Montana, New Mexico and Wyoming, have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure, and/or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict or prohibit the performance of well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular.Additionally, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing activities involving diesel fuel (specifically, when diesel fuel is utilized in the stimulation fluid) under the Safe Drinking Water Act and is completing the process of drafting guidance documents related to this newly asserted regulatory authority. There are also certain governmental reviews either underway or being proposed that focus on shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. Depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek 21Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statementsto further regulate such activities. The EPA has published proposed New Source Performance Standards ("NSPS") and National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ("NESHAP") that, if adopted as proposed, would amend existing NSPS and NESHAP standards for oil and gas facilities as well as create new NSPS standards for oil and gas production, transmissionand distribution facilities. The EPA has also proposed regulations focused on reducing emissions of certain air pollutants by the oil and gas industry, including volatile organic compounds, sulfur dioxide and certain air toxics.Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process. We cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed through the adoption of new laws and regulations, our business and operations could be subject to delays, increased operating and compliance costs and process prohibitions.We do not control the activities on properties we do not operate.Other companies may from time to time drill, complete and operate properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have a limited ability to exercise influence over operations for these properties or their associated costs. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects and our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs could materially adversely affect the realization of our targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. The success and timing of our drilling and development activities on properties operated by others therefore depend upon a number of factors that are outside of our control, including:• Timing and amount of capital expenditures.• The operator’s expertise and financial resources.• Approval of other participants in drilling wells.• Selection of technology.We are highly dependent on our management team, JEX, our exploration partners and third-party consultants and engineers, and any failure to retain the services of such parties could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies.The successful implementation of our business strategy and handling of other issues integral to the fulfillment of our business strategy is highly dependent on our management team, as well as certain key geoscientists, geologists, engineers and other professionals engaged by us. We are highly dependent on the services provided by JEX. The loss of key members of our management team, JEX or other highly qualified technical professionals could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our overall operations or successfully execute current or future business strategies which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results.Acquisition prospects are difficult to assess and may pose additional risks to our operations.We expect to evaluate and, where appropriate, pursue acquisition opportunities on terms our management considers favorable. The successful acquisition of natural gas and oil properties requires an assessment of:• Recoverable reserves.• Exploration potential.• Future natural gas and oil prices.• Operating costs.• Potential environmental and other liabilities and other factors.• Permitting and other environmental authorizations required for our operations.In connection with such an assessment, we would expect to perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent with industry practices. Nonetheless, the resulting conclusions are necessarily inexact and their accuracy inherently uncertain and such an assessment may not reveal all existing or potential problems, nor will it necessarily permit a buyer to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their merits and deficiencies. Inspections may not always be performed on every platform or well, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Future acquisitions could pose additional risks to our operations and financial results, including:• Problems integrating the purchased operations, personnel or technologies.22Table of ContentsIndex to Financial Statements• Unanticipated costs.• Diversion of resources and management attention from our exploration business.• Entry into regions or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience.• Potential loss of key employees of the acquired organization.Low interest rates put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers.As of June 30, 2012, we had approximately $130 million in cash and no debt. The overnight T-bill investment rate for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 averaged approximately 0.035%, which would only generate investment income for the year of approximately $45,500. We therefore keep all of our cash in non-interest bearing accounts which are guaranteed by the U.S. Government. Competitive companies which borrow money are able to do so at extremely low rates and thereby may benefit from today’s low level of interest rates.Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could adversely affect a potential acquisition by third-parties that may ultimately be in the financial interests of our stockholders.Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals. These provisions could have the effect of inhibiting fluctuations in the market price of our common stock that could result from actual or rumored takeover attempts, preventing changes in our management or limiting the price that investors may be willing to pay for shares of common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone