Item 1A. Risk Factors If we cannot successfully execute our planned retail store expansion, our growth and profitability would be adversely impacted. We currently have four retail stores and have identified additional locations throughout the U.S. where we plan to open new stores over the next several years. A significant percentage of our projected future growth is expected to be generated from these new locations. If we experience delays in opening new stores, fail to select appropriate sites, encounter problems in opening new locations, or have trouble achieving anticipated sales volume in new locations, our growth and profitability will be adversely impacted. We have only opened three new stores in areas previously served by direct sales and so our experience observing the effects of new stores on our overall sales revenues is limited. Any one or more of the new stores we intend to open may not be profitable, in which event our operating results may suffer. Our ability to expand our retail presence depends in part on the following factors: • our ability to identify suitable locations in key markets with attractive demographics and which offer attractive returns on our investments; • the availability of suitable locations at price points consistent with our expansion model; • our ability to negotiate favorable lease and construction terms for such locations; • our ability to execute sale/leaseback transactions on satisfactory terms, if at all; • competition for such locations; • the timely construction of such retail stores; • our ability to receive local and state government permits and approvals in connection with such locations; • our ability to attract, train and retain skilled and knowledgeable store personnel; • our ability to provide a product mix that meets the needs of our customers; and • favorable economic conditions. In addition, each retail store is expected to require approximately $0.7 to $1.1 million of capital, including start up costs, leasehold improvements and inventory, and excluding the cost of the real estate. If actual costs are higher than expected or if sales in such stores are lower than expected, we may not be able to open as many retail stores as anticipated or we will need to raise additional capital in order to continue our growth. If we cannot continue to successfully manage our direct sales channel, it would negatively impact our growth and profitability. Our direct sales generated 85.1% of our revenues in 2005 and we expect such operations to continue to represent a majority of our sales for at least the next several years. Our success depends on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products effectively through our various catalogs and Internet sites. We believe that the success of our direct sales depends on: • our ability to offer a product mix that is attractive to our customers; • the price point of our products relative to our competitors; • our ability to achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • our ability to add new customers in a cost-effective manner; • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers; 15 Table of Contents • an efficient Internet interface; • a seamless buying experience for our customers across each of our channels; and • cost effective and efficient order fulfillment. Catalog production, mailings and paper-based packing products, such as shipping cartons, entail substantial paper, postage, human resource and other costs, including costs of catalog development. We incur most of these costs prior to the mailing of each catalog. Increases in costs of mailing, paper or printing would increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers. Sales through our websites generated 23.8% of our revenues in 2005. The success of our online business depends in part on factors over which we have limited control. These factors include changing customer preferences, changing buying trends related to Internet usage, changes in technology interfaces, technology failures or human errors, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. Any failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect sales through our websites, impair our reputation and increase our operating costs. The success of our direct sales hinges on the achievement of adequate response rates to mailings, merchandising and catalog and website presentations that appeal to our customers and the expansion of our potential customer base in a cost-effective manner. Lack of consumer response to particular catalog or flier mailings or Internet marketing efforts may increase our costs and decrease the profitability of our business. Our retail store rollout could cannibalize existing sales from our direct sales channel or existing retail locations. Our strategy to increase the number of retail store locations is based on finding optimal locations where demand for equestrian products is high. When we open a retail store in an area that has a high concentration of our existing customers, we expect that such customers will purchase products in the retail location as well as through our catalogs and websites, ultimately increasing their total purchases as multi-channel customers. Direct sales in the geographic area surrounding our Hockessin, DE store declined 4.0% in the first year of such store’s operation. In the future, in areas where we open retail stores, the customers located within the area of such store may not spend more than they would have from the catalog and websites and therefore there may be a transfer of sales from our direct sales business to our retail stores. In such case, we may incur significant costs associated with opening a store and mailing catalogs while not generating incremental revenue. With a significant portion of our growth strategy dependent upon our planned retail store expansion, our quarterly revenues and earnings could be variable and unpredictable and inventory levels will increase. We plan to increase the rate at which we open new stores. As we open new stores, (i) revenues may fluctuate and (ii) pre-opening expenses are incurred which may not be offset by a corresponding increase in revenues during the same financial reporting period. These factors may contribute to variable operating results. Some of the expenses associated with openings of our new retail stores, such as headcount and lease occupancy expenses will increase. Additionally, as we increase inventory levels to provide stores with merchandise, we may not be able to manage this inventory without incurring additional costs. If retail store sales are inadequate to support these new costs, our earnings will decrease. 16 Table of Contents We rely on service providers to operate our business and any disruption of their supply of services could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on a number of service providers to operate our business such as: • a printer and a database processor to produce and mail our catalogs; • a website hosting service provider to host and manage our websites; • telephone companies to provide telephone and fax service to our customer service centers and to communicate between locations; and • shipping companies such as DHL/ Airborne, UPS, Fedex, the U.S. Postal Service and common carriers for timely delivery of our catalogs, shipment of merchandise to our customers and delivery of merchandise from our suppliers, including foreign suppliers, to us and from our warehouse to our retail stores. Any disruption in these services may have a negative impact on our ability to market and sell our products and serve our customers and could result in increased costs to us. We rely on merchandise suppliers to operate our business and any disruption of their supply of products could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on merchandise suppliers to supply our products in saleable condition, in sufficient quantities, at competitive prices and in a timely manner. In 2005, our five largest merchandise suppliers collectively provided approximately 30.8%, and our single largest merchandise supplier accounted for 11.6%, of our total sales. Our current merchandise suppliers may not be able to accommodate our anticipated needs in a timely matter or at all. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise in a timely manner or lose one or more key merchandise suppliers, we may not be able to offer products that are important to our merchandise assortment, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe our merchandise supplier relationships are satisfactory, we have no contractual arrangements providing for continued supply from our key merchandise suppliers and our merchandise suppliers may discontinue selling to us at any time or may raise the cost of merchandise and we may be unable to pass such price increases along to our customers. If we do not properly manage our inventory levels, our operating results and available funds for future growth will be adversely affected. We currently maintain a high level of inventory consisting of approximately 28,000 SKUs in order to limit out of stock items and have a broad depth of products for our customers. The investment associated with this high level of inventory is substantial. If we fail to adequately predict the amount or mix of our inventory, we will incur costs associated with stocking inventory that is not being sold or fails to meet the demands of our customers or we may be required to write off or write down inventory which would hurt our operating results. If we do not meet the needs of our customers, they may decide to purchase products from our competitors. Although we have some ability to return merchandise to our suppliers, we incur additional costs in doing so and we may not be able to return merchandise in the future. If our information technology systems fail to perform as designed or if we need to make system changes in order to support our growing direct and retail store businesses, there may be disruptions in operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems and our point of sale, or POS, systems. Our information technology systems are located in Littleton, MA, and our POS systems are located in each retail store. These systems, which operate our 17 Table of Contents website, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis and maintain cost-effective operations, are subject to damage from natural disasters, power failures, hardware and software failures, security breaches, network failures, computer viruses and operator negligence. The failure of our information technology systems and our POS systems to perform as designed, even if temporary, could adversely affect inventory levels, shipments to customers and customer service. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed, which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our anticipated growth, we could lose customers. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our planned opening of additional retail stores over the next several years and the future growth of our direct sales business, we may need to upgrade and modify our information technology capabilities. Any upgrades to our information technology systems and our POS systems may not be successful or may cause substantial expenses. In addition, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading our core systems, including disruptions that affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we were unable to adequately handle these disruptions, it could adversely affect inventory levels, shipments to customers and customer service. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A decline in discretionary consumer spending could reduce our revenues. Our revenues depend to a degree on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease due to a variety of factors beyond our control. These include unfavorable general business conditions, increases in interest rates, increases in inflation, stock market uncertainty, war, terrorism, fears of war or terrorism, increases in consumer debt levels and decreases in the availability of consumer credit, adverse or unseasonable weather conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, increases in taxation, adverse unemployment trends and other factors that adversely influence consumer confidence and spending. Any one of these factors could result in adverse fluctuations in our revenues generally. Our revenues also depend on the extent to which discretionary consumer spending is directed towards recreational activities generally and equestrian activities and products in particular. Reductions in the amounts of discretionary spending directed to such activities would reduce our revenues. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during periods when disposable income is lower or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues would decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our results may fluctuate as a result of seasonal changes associated with the equestrian products industry. We experience seasonal fluctuation in our revenues and operating results. We typically realize a higher portion of our revenues and operating results during the fourth quarter. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not 18 Table of Contents necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Competition in the equestrian products market could reduce our revenue and profitability. The equestrian products market is highly fragmented with approximately 10,000 retail store locations nationwide. Many of these are small businesses that have a loyal customer base. We may therefore not be able to generate sufficient sales to support our new retail store locations. We also compete directly with State Line Tack, which is owned by PetSmart and has greater financial resources than we have. There are also a significant number of sporting goods stores, mass merchandisers and other better funded companies that could decide to enter into or expand their equestrian products offerings. In addition, if our competitors reduce their prices, we may have to reduce our prices in order to compete. We may also be forced to increase our advertising or mail a greater number of catalogs in order to generate the same or even lower level of sales. Any one of these competitive factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. A natural disaster or other disruption at our Littleton, MA warehouse fulfillment center could cause us to lose merchandise and be unable to deliver products to our direct sales customers and our retail stores. We currently rely on our Littleton, MA warehouse to handle our fulfillment needs. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this center due to fire, flood, tornado, earthquake or any other calamity could damage a significant portion of our inventory, and materially impair our ability to adequately stock our retail stores, deliver merchandise to customers, and process returns to merchandise suppliers and could result in lost revenues and increased costs. If we lose key members of management or are unable to retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Stephen Day, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jonathan Grylls, our Chief Operating Officer and other key personnel including our senior executive management. We currently maintain four million dollars of key-man life insurance on Mr. Day, the proceeds of which are required to pay down outstanding debt. Effective as of September 1, 2005, we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Day and Mr. Grylls, which contain provisions for non-competition, non-solicitation and severance. In addition, our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled and motivated, full-time and temporary sales personnel with appropriate equestrian products industry knowledge and retail experience to work in management and in our retail stores. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals or the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for our key management and retail sales positions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may need additional financing to execute our growth strategy, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Our current revolving credit facility is due in full on September 16, 2008. This will not be enough to finance the opening of all of our planned additional stores over the next several years. In order to satisfy our revolving credit facility when due and to execute our retail store expansion strategy, we may need to borrow additional funds, raise additional equity financing or finance our planned expansion from profits. We may also need to raise additional capital in the future to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated financial requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, including the extension of refinancing of our revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A failure to obtain additional financing or an inability to 19 Table of Contents obtain financing on acceptable terms could require us to incur indebtedness at high rates of interest or with substantial restrictive covenants, including prohibitions on payment of dividends. We may obtain additional financing by issuing equity securities that will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to scale back operations or be unable to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of our operations. The terms of our revolving credit facility impose operating and financial restrictions on us, which may impair our ability to grow our business or respond to changing business and economic conditions and could have an adverse impact on our business. Our current revolving credit facility contains provisions which impose minimum cash flow requirements and which restrict our ability to, among other things, incur or repay additional indebtedness, make particular types of investments, incur liens, pay dividends, consummate mergers and consolidations, enter into transactions with affiliates or make substantial asset sales. In particular, the Company received waivers at December 31, 2005 for the minimum cash flow and EBITDA bank covenants. In addition, our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by interests in substantially all of our personal property excluding store and distribution center equipment and fixtures. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. We rely on foreign sources for many of our products, which subjects us to various risks. We currently source approximately one quarter of our products from foreign manufacturers located in Europe, Asia and South America. As such, we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include currency rate fluctuations, import duties and quotas, work stoppages, economic uncertainties including inflation, foreign government regulations, wars and fears of war, acts of terrorism and fear of acts of terrorism, political unrest and trade restrictions. Additionally, countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future may become subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments. Any event affecting prices or causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign merchandise suppliers, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, currency rate fluctuations, restrictions on the transfer of funds or increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our operating results. We do not currently, and we do not plan to, hedge against increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against any foreign currencies. Our product sourcing from foreign merchandise suppliers means, in part, that we may be affected by declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies. Specifically, as the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to other currencies, our effective cost of products increases. As a result, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies would adversely affect our operating results. Our retail store expansion strategy may result in our direct sales business establishing a nexus with additional states, which may cause our direct sales business to pay additional income and sales taxes and have an adverse effect on the revenues and cash flows of our direct sales business. As we open retail stores in additional states, the necessary relationship between the retail stores and our direct sales business may be deemed by certain state tax authorities to create a nexus for state income and sales taxation of our direct sales business in those states. This could result in an increase in the tax collection and payment obligations of our direct sales business, which 20 Table of Contents would have an adverse effect on the profitability and cash flows of our direct sales business and our overall business. Such sales tax collection obligations, if any, would increase the total cost of our products to our customers. This increased cost to our customers could negatively affect the revenues of our direct sales business if we are required to reduce the underlying prices for the products sold through our direct sales channel. The occurrence of either of these events would have an adverse effect on the revenues, costs and cash flows of our direct sales business. This area of law is uncertain and changing and we could be subject to paying back taxes and penalties. If we fail to adequately protect our trademarks, our brand and reputation could be impaired or diluted and we could lose customers. We have, or have rights to, four marks that we consider to be material to the successful operation of our business: Dover Saddlery, Smith Brothers, Miller’s Harness and The Source. We currently use all of these marks in our direct sales business. We also have several additional pending trademark applications. We also regard our copyrights, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. In addition to our registered marks and pending applications, our principal intellectual property rights include copyrights in our catalogs, rights to our domain names and our databases and information management systems. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Our trademark applications may not be granted, and we may not be able to secure significant protection for our marks. Our competitors or others may adopt trademarks or service marks similar to our marks or try to prevent us from using our marks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired or diluted and we may lose customers. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties may assert claims with respect to patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights that are important to our business, such as our Dover Saddlery, Smith Brothers and Miller’s Harness trademarks. Other parties might seek to block the use of, or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of, our intellectual property or the sale of our products as a violation of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and could damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of intellectual property in the U.S. or foreign countries (including, but not limited to, similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights) of which we are not aware. In all such countries, it may be possible for any third-party owner of a trademark registration in that country or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In addition, securing registrations does not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various other grounds. 21 Table of Contents Any such claims of infringement or misappropriation, whether meritorious or not, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; • cause us to cease selling certain products; • result in the loss of customers; • require us to re-label or re-design certain products, if feasible; • result in significant monetary liability; • divert management’s attention and resources; • potentially require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property; and • force us to stop using valuable trademarks under which we market our products. Third parties might assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to any of our products. Any such assertion might require us to enter into royalty arrangements or litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous regulations and regulatory changes that could impact our business or require us to modify our current business practices. We are subject to numerous regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce, retailers generally, the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. These regulations include customs, privacy, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, shipping and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances. Many of these laws and regulations may specifically impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. If these laws were to change, or are violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, we could experience delays in shipments of our goods or be subject to fines or other penalties which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. The growth and demand for online commerce has resulted, and may continue to result, in more stringent consumer compliance burdens on companies that operate in the e-commerce segment. Specifically, certain states have enacted various legislation with respect to consumer privacy. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and certain state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. The costs of compliance with federal and state privacy laws and the costs that might be incurred in connection with any federal or state investigations could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. Our direct mail operations are subject to regulation by the U.S. Postal Service, the Federal Trade Commission and various state, local and private consumer protection and other regulatory authorities. In general, these regulations govern the manner in which orders may be solicited, the form and content of advertisements, information which must be provided to prospective customers, the time within which orders must be filled, obligations to customers if orders are not shipped within a specified period of time and the time within which refunds must be paid if the ordered merchandise is unavailable or returned. From time to time, we have modified our methods of doing business and our marketing operations in response to such regulation. To date, such regulation has not had a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. However, future regulatory requirements or actions may have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. 22 Table of Contents We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with laws and regulations. Compliance with existing or future laws and regulations may materially limit our ability to operate our business and increase our costs. Our 100% satisfaction guarantee exposes us to the risk of an increase in our return rates which could adversely affect our profitability. Part of our marketing and advertising strategy focuses on allowing customers to return products ordered from our catalogs at any time if they are not satisfied and obtain a refund of the purchase price. As we expand our sales, our return rates may not remain within our historically low levels and could significantly impair our profitability. Our marketing expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire and we may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of direct marketing to generate sales. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our products and brand name; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future marketing expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media, to maintain acceptable costs per inquiry, costs per order and operating margins; and • convert inquiries into actual orders. Our marketing expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness and we may not be able to manage such marketing expenditures on a cost effective basis. 