ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. The completion of our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Although we have experience developing and managing casinos owned by Indian tribes and located on Indian land, neither we nor any of these individuals has developed or managed a casino in the States of California, Michigan, or Oklahoma. The opening of each of our proposed facilities will be contingent upon, among other things, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open these facilities will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such facilities or otherwise affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. No assurances can be given that once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities will begin or will be completed on time, or any other time, or that the budget for these projects will not be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Certain of our casino projects have been significantly delayed as a result of such litigation, and there is no assurance that the litigation can be successfully resolved or that our casino projects will not experience further significant delays before resolution. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. 17 Any significant delay in, or non-completion of, our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Since the expiration of our management contract for Grand Casino Coushatta (the last remaining Indian-owned casino managed by us) on January 16, 2002, we have generated minimal revenue from our casino management activities. We have had minimal current casino management-related operating revenue with which to offset the investment costs associated with our current or future casino development projects, delays in the completion of our current development projects, or the failure of such projects to be completed at all, may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, once developed, no assurances can be given that we will be able to manage these casinos on a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the various operations profitable independently. With each project we are subject to the risk that our investment may be lost if the project cannot obtain adequate financing to complete development and open the casino successfully. In some cases, we may be forced to provide more financing than we originally planned in order to complete development, increasing the risk to us in the event of a default by the casino. In addition, because our future growth in revenues and our ability to generate profits will depend to a large extent on our ability to increase the number of our managed casinos or develop new business opportunities, the delays in the completion or the non-completion of our current development projects may adversely affect our ability to realize future growth in revenues and future profits. The termination of our management, development, consulting or financing agreements with Indian tribes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements provide that such contracts may be terminated under certain circumstances, including without limitation, upon the failure to obtain NIGC approval for the project, the loss of requisite gaming licenses, or an exercise by an Indian tribe of its buyout option. Without the realization of new business opportunities or new management, development, consulting or financing agreements, management, development, consulting or financing agreement terminations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our current casino development projects are not completed or fail to successfully compete once completed, we may lack the funds to compete for and develop future gaming or other business opportunities which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos; river boat and dockside gaming; casino gaming on Indian land; state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels; pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing; sports bookmaking; and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our planned managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. We could be prevented from completing our current casino development projects or pursuing future development projects due to changes in the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) that apply to gaming facilities or the inability of us or our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners to obtain or retain gaming regulatory licenses. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to 18 jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, the failure of us, or any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. The political and regulatory environment in which we operate, including with respect to gaming activities on Indian land, is discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Business-Regulation” in Item 1. If the NIGC elects to modify the terms of our management contracts with Indian tribes or void such contracts altogether, our revenues from management contracts may be reduced or eliminated. The NIGC has the power to require modifications to Indian management contracts under certain circumstances or to void such contracts or ancillary agreements including loan agreements if the management company fails to obtain requisite approvals or to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The NIGC has the right to review each contract and has the authority to reduce the term of a management contract or the management fee or otherwise require modification of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on us. Currently, only the Shingle Springs management contract has been approved by the NIGC. The other management contracts have not received final approval by the NIGC and may require modification prior to receiving approval. If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management, development, consulting or financing agreements with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to Indian tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos to be managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from an Indian tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. We have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to an Indian tribe and other distributions due from an Indian tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the Indian tribe to other parties related to the casino operations. Accordingly, in the event of a default by an Indian tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the Indian tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the Indian tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delays in the completion of a casino development project with that Indian tribe or even force us to abandon a casino development project altogether and prevent or significantly impede recovery of our investment therein. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our proposed and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and effectuate management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing an Indian tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of Indian tribe officials or administrations, changes in policies to which an Indian tribe is subject, or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe may cause delays in the completion of a development project with that Indian tribe or prevent the project’s completion altogether, which may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. As previously announced, our professional relationships with the tribal officials of the Kickapoo Tribe and the Pawnee Nation have deteriorated. The casino development projects have been adversely impacted, which has resulted in the termination of the Kickapoo Tribe casino project in 2005 and the rejection of a proposed updated tribal agreement between the Pawnee Nation and a Lakes subsidiary. 19 If funds from our operations are insufficient to support our cash requirements and we are unable to obtain additional financing in order to satisfy these requirements we may, be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals, or cease our operations entirely. We may require additional capital through either public or private financings to meet operating and development expenses during fiscal 2007 and we are currently considering various financing alternatives. If the financing is in the form of equity financing it will be dilutive to our shareholders, and any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants. We may raise additional capital through either public or private financings or the sale of some or all of our shares of WPTE. An inability to raise such funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. If one or more of our Indian casino projects fail to open, the recorded assets related to those projects will be impaired and there may be a material adverse impact on our financial results. We record assets related to Indian casino projects on our consolidated balance sheet as long-term assets related to Indian casino projects. The majority of our long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are in the form of loans to the Indian tribes pursuant to our financing agreements with varying degrees of collection risk, and with repayment often dependent on the operating performance of each gaming property. These loans are included as notes receivable on the consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At December 31, 2006, we had $243.8 million in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $164.3 million was in the form of notes receivable, which are recorded at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. The notes receivable represented approximately 45% of our total assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The loans are made to Indian tribes for pre-construction financing related to gaming properties being developed by us. All of the loans are subject to varying degrees of collection risk and there is no established market. For the loans representing indebtedness of Indian tribes, the repayment terms are specific to each Indian tribe and are largely dependent upon the operating performance of each gaming property. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the related casinos. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in the management contracts. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management contracts are subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the respective Indian tribes. Included in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are intangible assets related to the acquisition of management contracts, land held for development and other costs incurred in connection with opening the Indian casinos of $54.3 million, $16.8 million and $8.5 million, respectively, at December 31, 2006. It is possible that one or more of our Indian casino projects will fail to open, which will render the majority of the assets related to the failed Indian casino project impaired. See our accounting policy within Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During September 2005, legislation was proposed to amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casino projects. During September 2005, the Department of Justice proposed legislation that would amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 (commonly referred to as the Johnson Act). The proposal seeks to clarify the difference between Class II and Class III gaming devices. It prohibits Indian tribes from operating gaming devices that resemble slot machines without a tribal-state compact. The legislation proposes to amend the Johnson Act in three significant ways. First, the definition of “gaming device” in Section 1171 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify how the element of chance can be provided in a gaming device. Second, Section 1172 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify that certain “qualifying” technologic aids could be transported and used in Indian country. Third, a new Section (d) would be added to Section 1175 of the Johnson Act to provide an express exception to allow technological devices to be used in Class II gaming. This proposed legislation concerning the Johnson Act amendments has never been introduced as a bill in Congress, but if passed it could affect our planned casino operations for the Shingle Springs Tribe and the Jamul 20 Tribe which could affect management/consulting fees to be received by us under the respective projects. Class II gaming devices are currently planned to be used at the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casinos. If the Department of Justice proposed legislation were ever passed there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used by the above-mentioned projects. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In May 2006, the NIGC issued proposed regulations concerning classification of gaming devices which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casino projects. In May 2006, in response to the Department of Justice decision not to proceed with its proposed legislation to amend the Johnson Act, the NIGC proposed new regulations concerning the classification of gaming devices. These proposed regulations, if adopted, could restrict the types of gaming devices permitted as Class II games under IGRA, and such restrictions could limit the type of gaming devices planned to be used at the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casinos. If the NIGC proposed regulations were adopted as published, there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used by the above-mentioned projects. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In February 2007, after receiving numerous negative comments to the proposed regulations from tribes and industry companies, the NIGC withdrew its proposed rules and indicated it would attempt to review and modify the proposed regulations and publish a new version at a later date. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We have announced that part of our strategy involves diversifying into other businesses such as developing and owning our own non-tribal casino and the development and marketing of our own table games. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services, and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. There is no assurance that diversification activities will successfully add to our future revenues and income. We cannot guarantee the financial results of the expansion of the World Poker Tour business, which may negatively impact our financial results. As of December 31, 2006, we, through our subsidiary Lakes Poker Tour, LLC, owned approximately 61% of the outstanding common stock of WPT Enterprises, Inc., referred to as WPTE. As a result, our consolidated results include WPTE operations. For the fiscal year ended January 1, 2006 (“fiscal 2005”), the majority of our consolidated revenues of $18.2 million were derived from WPTE. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”), the majority of our consolidated revenues of $29.9 million were derived from WPTE, primarily due to the delivery of 24 episodes of Season One of the PPT television series versus no episodes of the PPT delivered in fiscal 2005, combined with the delivery of 21 episodes of the World Poker Tour television series in fiscal 2006 compared to 18 episodes in fiscal 2005. However, we cannot guarantee the financial results of the expansion of the World Poker Tour business, which may negatively impact our financial results. We can provide no assurance that WPTE will achieve its forecasted revenues, that WPTE will be able to expand its business, or that WPTE’s operations will positively impact our financial results because WPTE’s business is subject to many risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to, WPTE’s short operating history, WPTE’s dependence on its agreement with TRV, continued public acceptance of the World Poker Tour programming and brand, protection of WPTE’s intellectual property rights, and WPTE’s ability to successfully expand into new and complementary businesses, including internet gambling. The Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 prohibits online gambling in the United States of America. Congress passing of the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act or future government regulation of online gaming in the United States may restrict the 21 activities or affect the financial results of WPTE’s online gaming venture currently operating and WPTE’s new online gaming venture in development. TRV and WPTE were unable to arrive at economic terms for the broadcast rights for Season Six of the WPT television series prior to the original option deadline of March 10, 2007, and have extended the option period to April 1, 2007, and continue to negotiate. These economic terms have not yet been finalized but are expected to differ from the terms for previous seasons. There is no assurance that the Travel Channel will exercise its option to air Season Six. Further, if the Travel Channel does not elect to continue airing the WPT series and WPTE cannot maintain or replace its agreements with the Travel Channel with comparable license agreements, it will be detrimental to the viability of the WPT and PPT brands and, consequently, would have a material adverse effect on WPTE’s business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, cash flow and, ultimately, the price of WPTE’s common stock. Season Five episodes are scheduled to begin broadcasting on the Travel Channel in April 2007. On May 1, 2006, TRV notified WPTE that it had chosen to not exercise its options for future seasons of the PPT television series. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lyle Berman, and the loss of his services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. We have obtained a $20 million key man life insurance policy on him. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our Bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. In connection with closing on a $50 million financing facility in February 2006, our Board of Directors authorized the creation of class of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with contingent conversion rights and limited voting rights, and we issued an aggregate of approximately 4.5 million shares of such preferred stock to an affiliate of the lender. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any other class of preferred stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; 22 • changes in requirements or demands for our services or WPTE’s products; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options and warrants to acquire our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 31, 2006, we had options outstanding to acquire 4.7 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $3.25 to $18.16 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $6.15 per share. During the terms of these options, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher than the respective exercise or conversion price. In addition, the increase in the outstanding shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise or conversion of these options could result in a significant decrease in the percentage ownership of our common stock by the purchasers of its common stock. On February 15, 2006, we closed on a $50 million financing facility with PLKS Funding, LLC, an affiliate of Prentice Capital Management, LP, referred to as Prentice Capital. As consideration for the financing, we issued to PLKS Holdings, LLC, referred to as PLKS, warrants to purchase 1.25 million shares of common stock that can be immediately exercised at $7.50 per share and expire in February 2013. As required by the terms of a registration rights agreement with PLKS, Lakes registered for resale 130% of the number of shares that are issuable upon either the conversion of the outstanding shares of our series A convertible preferred stock or the exercise of the warrants to purchase up to 1,250,000 shares of common stock. This resulted in an additional 375,000 shares of common stock (30% of 1,250,000) being registered to cover any additional shares that Lakes would be obligated to issue to PLKS upon conversion of the preferred stock or exercise of the warrants if Lakes declares a stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, recapitalization, reclassification or other similar event relating to its common stock, collectively referred to as Dilution Events. Lakes has no plans to declare any Dilution Events. Lakes repaid all amounts borrowed under the financing facility during fiscal 2006, and the registration for resale of these shares of common stock was the last remaining outstanding obligation associated with the financing facility. Lakes will receive proceeds from any exercise of the warrants as provided in the warrant agreement, and will use the proceeds from any warrant exercise for general working capital purposes. Lakes will not receive proceeds from any sale of the common stock by PLKS that could occur subsequent to any exercise of the warrants by PLKS. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of December 31, 2006, these shares consist of approximately 4.2 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 23 