ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq National Market effective August 10, 2005 and there is no assurance that our common stock will be re-listed. We received a Nasdaq Staff Determination letter on April 20, 2005, indicating that we were not compliant with Nasdaq listing standards because we did not timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 2, 2005 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2005 with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, referred to as the SEC. As a result, our common stock was subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market. The delisting notification is standard procedure when a Nasdaq listed company fails to complete a required filing in a timely manner. On August 9, 2005, we received notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market Listing Qualifications Department that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel determined to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq National Market effective as of the opening of business on August 10, 2005. 17 Table of Contents We will apply for re-listing of our common stock with the Nasdaq Stock Market Listing Qualifications Department once we become current with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule No. 4310(c)(14). There can be no assurance that the Panel will grant our request for re-listing. The completion of our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Although we and certain members of our management team have experience developing and managing casinos owned by Indian tribes and located on Indian land, neither we nor any of these individuals has developed or managed a casino in the States of California, Michigan, or Oklahoma. In addition, the gaming industry in each of the locations where we plan to develop and manage casinos has a limited operating history and faces several legal and procedural challenges that will need to be resolved prior to the commencement of our development activities and the opening and operation of the respective casinos. The opening of each of our proposed facilities will be contingent upon, among other things, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open these facilities will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such facilities or otherwise affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. No assurances can be given that once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities will begin or will be completed on time, or any other time, or that the budget for these projects will not be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Certain of our casino projects have been significantly delayed as a result of such litigation, and there is no assurance that the litigation can be successfully resolved or that our casino projects will not experience further significant delays before resolution. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. In addition, once developed, no assurances can be given that we will be able to manage these casinos on a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the various operations profitable independently. With each project we are subject to the risk that our investment may be lost if the project cannot obtain adequate financing to complete development and open the casino successfully. In some cases, we may be forced to provide more financing than we originally planned in order to complete development, increasing the risk to us in the event of a default by the casino. Any significant delay in, or non-completion of, our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Since the expiration of our management contract for Grand Casino Coushatta (the last remaining Indian-owned casino managed by us) on January 16, 2002, we have generated no revenue from our casino management activities. Given the absence of current casino management-related operating revenue with which to offset the investment costs associated with our current or future casino development projects, delays in the completion of our current development projects, or the failure of such projects to be completed at all, may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, because our future growth in revenues and our ability to generate profits will depend to a large extent on our ability to increase the number of our managed casinos or develop new business opportunities, the delays in the 18 Table of Contents completion or the non-completion of our current development projects may adversely affect our ability to realize future growth in revenues and future profits. The termination of our management contracts and consulting agreements with Indian tribes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our current management contracts and consulting agreements provide that such contracts may be terminated under certain circumstances, including without limitation, upon the failure to obtain NIGC approval for the project, the loss of requisite gaming licenses, or an exercise by a tribe of its buyout option. Without the realization of new business opportunities or new management contracts or consulting agreements, management contract or consulting agreement terminations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our current casino development projects are not completed or fail to successfully compete once completed, we may lack the funds to compete for and develop future gaming or other business opportunities which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos; river boat and dockside gaming; casino gaming on Indian land; state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels; pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing; sports bookmaking; and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. We could be prevented from completing our current casino development projects or pursuing future development projects due to changes in the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) that apply to gaming facilities or the inability of us or our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners to obtain or retain gaming regulatory licenses. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, the failure of us, or any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. The political and regulatory environment in which we operate, including with respect to gaming activities on Indian land, is discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Business-Regulation” in Item 1. If the NIGC elects to modify the terms of our management contracts with Indian tribes or void such contracts altogether, our revenues from management contracts may be reduced or eliminated. 19 Table of Contents The NIGC has the power to require modifications to Indian management contracts under certain circumstances or to void such contracts or ancillary agreements including loan agreements if the management company fails to obtain requisite approvals or to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The NIGC has the right to review each contract and has the authority to reduce the term of a management contract or the management fee or otherwise require modification of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on us. Currently, only the Shingle Springs management contract has been approved by the NIGC. The other management contracts have not received final approval by the NIGC and may require modification prior to receiving approval. If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management contracts with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from a tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management contract is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. We have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to a tribe and other distributions due from a tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the tribe to other parties related to the casino operations. Accordingly, in the event of a default by a tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delays in the completion of a casino development project with that tribe or even force us to abandon a casino development project altogether. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our proposed and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and effectuate management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing a tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of tribe officials or administrations, changes in policies to which a tribe is subject, or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with a tribe may cause delays in the completion of a development project with that tribe or prevent the project’s completion altogether, which may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. If funds from our operations are insufficient to support our cash requirements and we are unable to obtain additional financing in order to satisfy these requirements we may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals, or cease our operations entirely. We will require additional capital through either public or private financings to meet operating expenses during the remainder of 2005 and 2006 and we are currently considering various financing alternatives. We will also need additional financing to meet our obligations related to our casino projects as soon as regulatory approvals are received and construction can begin. Such financings may not be available when needed on terms acceptable to us or at all. Moreover, any additional equity financings may be dilutive to our shareholders, and any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants. An inability to raise such funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals, or might require us to cease our operations entirely. Our financial condition and resources are discussed in greater detail in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the construction of our Indian casino projects may depend on the ability of the tribes to obtain financing for the projects. If such financing cannot be obtained on acceptable terms, it may not be possible to complete these projects. In order to assist the tribes, we may be required to guarantee the tribes’ debt financing or otherwise provide support for the tribes’ obligations. Any guarantees by us or similar off-balance sheet liabilities, if any, will increase our potential exposure in the event of a default by any of these tribes. For the Pokagon Casino project, we have agreed to finance all phases of the project entirely from our own funds if financing at an interest rate of 13% or less is not available from the capital markets. If this occurs and 20 Table of Contents we are required to provide all financing, this would be an additional commitment of up to approximately $54 million. While it currently appears that third-party financing will be available for this project, there can be no assurance third-party financing will be available and that we will not be required to provide this additional financing. If one or more of our Indian casino projects fail to open, the recorded assets related to those projects will be impaired and there will be a material adverse impact on our financial results. We record assets related to Indian casino projects on our consolidated balance sheet as long-term assets related to Indian casino projects. The majority of our long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are in the form of loans to the tribes pursuant to our financing agreements with varying degrees of collection risk, and with repayment often dependent on the operating performance of each gaming property. These loans are included as notes receivable on the consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At January 2, 2005, we had $125.6 million in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $67.1 million was in the form of notes receivable which are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. The notes receivable represented approximately 32% of our total assets. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The loans are made to Indian tribes for pre-construction financing related to gaming properties being developed by us. All of the loans are subject to varying degrees of collection risk and there is no established market. For the loans representing indebtedness of Indian tribes, the repayment terms are specific to each tribe and are largely dependent upon the operating performance of each gaming property. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the related casinos. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in the management contracts. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management contracts are subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the respective tribes. Included in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are intangible assets related to the acquisition of the management contract, land held for development and other costs incurred in connection with opening the casino of $41.1 million, $15.4 million and $2.0 million, respectively, at January 2, 2005. It is possible that one or more of our Indian casino projects will fail to open, which will render the majority of the assets related to the Indian casino project impaired. See accounting policy within Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the second quarter of fiscal 2004, related to our decision to discontinue funding the Nipmuc Nation project in Massachusetts, we recorded an impairment charge of $5.8 million related to long-term assets related to the Nipmuc Nation project. We also recorded an unrealized loss on notes receivable of $0.8 million as a result of determining the fair value of the note receivable from the Nipmuc Nation to be $0. The impairment and unrealized loss was recorded as a result of the BIA, in June 2004, denying the Nipmuc Nation status as an Indian Tribe and sovereign government within the meaning of federal law. See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Description of each Indian casino project and evaluation of critical milestones — Nipmuc Nation.” If there are significant losses in the future relating to impairment of value of the long-term assets related to Indian casino projects, this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As our existing casino projects continue development or we enter into new business arrangements, we expect to make additional loans to Indian tribes and other parties in the future, which will be subject to the risks described above. During September 2005, legislation was proposed to amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees from the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casino projects. During September 2005, the Department of Justice proposed legislation that would amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 (commonly referred to as the Johnson Act). The proposal seeks to clarify the difference between Class II and Class III machines. It prohibits tribes from operating games that resemble slot machines without a tribal-state compact. The legislation proposes to amend the Johnson Act in three significant ways. First, the definition of “gaming device” in Section 1171 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify how the element of chance can be provided in a gaming device. Second, Section 1172 of the Johnson Act would be 21 Table of Contents amended to clarify that certain “qualifying” technologic aids could be transported and used in Indian country. Third, a new Section (d) would be added to Section 1175 of the Johnson Act to provide an express exception to allow technological devices to be used in Class II gaming. This is only proposed legislation, but if passed it could affect our planned casino operations for the Shingle Springs Tribe and the Jamul Tribe and distributable management fees to us. Class II machines are planned to be used at the Shingle Springs and Jamul Casinos. If the legislation were passed there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II machines would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II machines currently planned to be used and in use by the above-mentioned projects. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We have announced that part of our strategy involves diversifying into other businesses such as developing and owning our own casino and the development and marketing of our own table games. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services, and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. There is no assurance that diversification activities will successfully add to our future revenues and income. We cannot guarantee the financial results of the expansion of the World Poker Tour business, which may negatively impact our financial results. As of January 2, 2005, we, through our subsidiary Lakes Poker Tour, LLC, owned approximately 64% of the outstanding common stock of WPT Enterprises, Inc., referred to as WPTE. As a result, our consolidated results include WPTE operations. In fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004, all of our consolidated revenues of $4.3 million and $17.6 million, respectively, were derived entirely from the WPTE business, mainly from license fees for United States telecast of World Poker Tour television episodes. WPTE has an agreement for a third season with the TRV, for broadcast of the World Poker Tour series on cable television which began airing in the fourth quarter of 2004 and continued airing in 2005. TRV exercised its option for Season Four in March 2005 and has options for three additional seasons. WPTE’s revenues were $12.8 million for the nine months ended October 2, 2005 from the delivery of thirteen Season Three episodes and one Season Four episode, international television licensing of the World Poker Tour’s Season One and Two and product licensing fees. However, we can provide no assurance that WPTE will achieve its forecasted revenues, that WPTE will be able to expand its business, or that WPTE’s operations will positively impact our financial results because WPTE’s business is subject to many risks and uncertainties. The risks include, but are not limited to, WPTE’s short operating history, WPTE’s dependence on its agreements with TRV, continued public acceptance of the World Poker Tour programming and brand, protection of WPTE’s intellectual property rights, and WPTE’s ability to successfully expand into new and complementary business, including internet gaming. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lyle Berman, and the loss of his services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success will depend largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Berman or a key man life insurance policy on him. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our Bylaws 22 Table of Contents provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. If our Board of Directors authorize the issuance of preferred stock in the future, this authorization could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; • changes in requirements or demands for our services; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of January 2, 2005, we had options outstanding to acquire 5.2 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $3.27 to $11.04 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $5.72 per share. During the terms of these options, the holders will have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher than the respective exercise or conversion price. In addition, the increase in the outstanding shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise or conversion of these options could result in a significant decrease in the percentage ownership of our common stock by the purchasers of its common stock. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or 23 Table of Contents make a profit. As of January 2, 2005, these shares consist of approximately 6.2 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 