Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider these risk factors before buying or trading shares of our stock. Any such risks may materialize, and additional risks not known to us, or that we now deem immaterial, may arise. In such event, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected. If that occurs, the market price of our common stock could fall, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes or incorporates forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of the words “believes”, “anticipates”, “plans”, “expects”, “may”, “will”, “would”, “intends”, “estimates”, and other similar expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. We cannot guarantee that we actually will achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements made. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements below that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements contained herein. The forward-looking statements do not reflect the potential impact of any future acquisitions, mergers or dispositions. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained herein. Our cost savings initiatives may have a negative impact on our market share in the short run. During 2009, through our cost-cutting efforts, we reduced operating expenses. Much of these savings have been achieved through decreased marketing expenditures and reductions in labor hours. We believe these measures were necessary and appropriate to maintain the health of our business in response to current economic conditions. However, our cost-cutting measures may also have some negative effect on our market share in the short run. 14 Table of Contents Current economic conditions and the global financial crisis may have an impact on our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. Throughout most of 2009, the global economy has experienced a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. It is not clear when a sustained economic recovery will begin. The recent historical decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the United States or in other regions of the world in which we do business could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Continued and potentially increased volatility, instability and economic weakness and a resulting decrease in discretionary consumer and business spending may result in a reduction in our revenues. We currently cannot predict the extent to which our revenues may be impacted. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers or distributors could result in product delays and discontinuances, a lack of new products, inventory challenges, and less favorable trade credit terms. A decline in discretionary consumer spending and related externalities could reduce our revenues. Our revenues depend to a degree on discretionary consumer spending, which may decrease due to a variety of factors beyond our control. These include unfavorable general business, financial and economic conditions, increases in interest rates, increases in inflation, stock market uncertainty, war, terrorism, fears of war or terrorism, increases in consumer debt levels and decreases in the availability of consumer credit, adverse or unseasonable weather conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws and regulations, increases in taxation, adverse unemployment trends and other factors that adversely influence consumer confidence and spending. Any one of these factors could result in adverse fluctuations in our revenues generally. Our revenues also depend on the extent to which discretionary consumer spending is directed towards recreational activities generally and equestrian activities and products in particular. Reductions in the amounts of discretionary spending directed to such activities would reduce our revenues. Our customers’ purchases of discretionary items, including our products, may decline during periods when disposable income is lower, or periods of actual or perceived unfavorable economic conditions. If this occurs, our revenues would decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. Material changes in cash flow and debt levels may adversely affect our growth and credit facilities, require the immediate repayment of all our loans, and limit the ability to open new stores. During seasonal and cyclical changes in our revenue levels, to fund our retail growth strategy, and to fund increases in our direct business, we make use of our credit facilities, which are subject to EBITDA, total debt and related covenants. In the last fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2008 and in the first quarter of fiscal 2009, prior to loan amendment, we would have failed to comply with one or more of these covenants. Subsequent to completion of our loan amendment, we were in compliance with all covenants associated with our revolving credit facility for the year ended December 31, 2009. If we are out of compliance with our covenants at the end of a fiscal period, it may adversely affect our growth prospects, require the consent of our lenders to open new stores, or in the worst case, trigger default and require the repayments of all amounts then outstanding on our loans. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit facility would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. In order to execute our retail store expansion strategy, we may need to borrow additional funds, raise additional equity financing or finance our planned expansion from profits. We may also need to raise additional capital in the future to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated 15 Table of Contents financial requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, including the extension or refinancing of our revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A failure to obtain additional financing or an inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms could require us to incur indebtedness at high rates of interest or with substantial restrictive covenants, including prohibitions on payment of dividends. We may obtain additional financing by issuing equity securities that will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to scale back operations or be unable to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of our operations. Our market is highly competitive and we may not continue to compete successfully. We compete in a highly competitive marketplace with a variety of retailers, dealers and distributors. The equestrian products market is highly fragmented with approximately 10,000 retail store locations nationwide. Many of these are small businesses that have a loyal customer base that compete very effectively in their local markets. We plan to apply our historic disciplines to confront the significant competition that we face in each of our local markets. We may, therefore, not be able to generate sufficient sales to support our new retail store locations. There are also a significant number of sporting goods stores, mass merchandisers and other better funded companies that could decide to enter into or expand their equestrian products offerings. Liquidating inventory sales by our former competitors may cause us temporarily to lose business and perhaps even to lose customers. In addition, if our continuing competitors reduce their prices, we may have to reduce our prices in order to compete. Our cost cutting measures in fiscal 2009 may also have some negative effect on our market share in the short run. We may be forced to increase our advertising or mail a greater number of catalogs in order to generate the same or even lower level of sales. Any one of these competitive factors could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. It is possible that increased competition or improved performance by our competitors may reduce our market share, may reduce our profit margin, and may adversely affect our business and financial performance in other ways. If the economic recession continues or we cannot successfully execute our planned retail store expansion, our growth and profitability would be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2009, we had thirteen retail stores. In response to the recent economic recession, we placed on hold our plan to rapidly increase the number of retail stores. A significant percentage of our projected future growth had been expected to be generated from these new locations. If we experience continued delays in opening new stores, fail to select appropriate sites, encounter problems in opening new locations, or have trouble achieving anticipated sales volume in new locations, our growth and profitability will be adversely impacted. Furthermore, any one or more of the new stores we intend to open may not be profitable, in which event our operating results may suffer. When the economy begins to rebound, our subsequent ability to expand our retail presence depends in part on the following factors: • favorable economic conditions; • our ability to identify suitable locations in key markets with attractive demographics and which offer attractive returns on our investments; • the availability of suitable locations at price points consistent with our expansion model; • our ability to negotiate favorable lease and construction terms for such locations; • our ability to execute sale/leaseback transactions on satisfactory terms, if at all; • competition for such locations; 16 Table of Contents • the timely construction of such retail stores; • our ability to receive local and state government permits and approvals in connection with such locations; • our ability to attract, train, and retain skilled and knowledgeable store personnel; and • our ability to provide a product mix that meets the needs of our customers. In addition, each retail store is expected to require approximately $0.9 to $1.4 million of capital, including start up costs, leasehold improvements and inventory, and excluding the cost of the real estate. If actual costs are higher than expected or if sales in such stores are lower than expected, we may not be able to open as many retail stores as anticipated or we will need to raise additional capital in order to continue our growth. We may continue to be unable to open new stores and enter new markets successfully. An important part of our business plan had been to increase our number of stores and enter new geographic markets. In light of the recent economic recession, the Company has placed that plan on hold. Since the IPO, we had opened five new stores through December 31, 2009 and remodeled, expanded and converted four stores from the Dominion Saddlery acquisition. In the future, when the economy begins to rebound, we plan to open additional stores. For our growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease or buy favorable store sites, hire and train associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully, and may also be restricted by covenants and conditions in our loan agreements. If we are unable to open new stores as quickly as planned, our future sales and profits could be materially adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our expansion strategy includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas. Our stock price may fluctuate based on market expectations. The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their ratings or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop significantly. In addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance. The future sale of shares of our common stock and limited liquidity may negatively impact our stock price. When our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by our controlling shareholders or any other large shareholders could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. Similarly, the market may disfavor the adoption of Rule 10b5-1 trading plans by one or more of the Company’s Officers or Directors, perceiving that such a plan represents a decline in management’s confidence about the Company’s prospects or that the parameters for and trading under a Rule 10b5-1 sales plan could cause downward pressure on the stock price. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for shareholders to make transactions in a timely fashion. The three year decline in the general trading range of the price of our common stock 17 Table of Contents together with the cyclical retail sector with which we are grouped, could reduce interest in our Company and thus, continue to deflate demand for purchasing shares of our common stock. Technology failures and privacy and security breaches could adversely affect the company’s business. A significant part of our overall revenues derives from our website sales. The success of our online business depends in part on factors over which we have limited control. These factors include changing customer preferences, changing buying trends related to Internet usage, changes in technology interfaces, temporary outages due to bandwidth constraints, denial of service attack, computer viruses, and other malicious activity, hardware or network failures, other technology failures or human errors, security breaches and consumer privacy concerns. Any failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect sales through our websites, impair our reputation and increase our operating costs. If our information technology systems fail to perform as designed or if we need to make system changes in order to support our growing direct and retail store businesses, there may be disruptions in operations. The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our information technology systems and our point of sale, or POS, systems. Our information technology systems are located in Littleton, MA, and our POS systems are located in each retail store. These systems, which our employees use to process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase, sell and ship goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-effective operations, are subject to damage from natural disasters, power failures, hardware and software failures, security breaches, network failures, computer viruses and operator negligence. The failure of our information technology systems and our POS systems to perform as designed, even if temporary, could adversely affect inventory levels, shipments to customers and customer service. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause information, including data related to customer orders, to be lost or delayed, which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, we may not be successful in developing or acquiring technology that is competitive and responsive to the needs of our customers and might lack sufficient resources to make the necessary investments in technology to compete with our competitors. Accordingly, if changes in technology cause our information systems to become obsolete, or if our information systems are inadequate to handle our anticipated growth, we could lose customers. While we believe that our systems are adequate to support our planned opening of additional retail stores over the next several years and the future growth of our direct sales business, we may need to upgrade and modify our information technology capabilities. Any upgrades to our information technology systems and our POS systems may not be successful or may cause substantial expenses. In addition, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading our core systems, including disruptions that affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. If we were unable to adequately handle these disruptions, it could adversely affect inventory levels, shipments to customers and customer service. Any such event would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our growth may strain operations, and finances, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business has grown and continues to grow through organic growth and acquisitions. Accordingly, sales, number of stores, number of states in which we conduct business, and number of 18 Table of Contents associates have grown and will likely continue to grow. This growth places significant demands on management and operational systems, and may be limited by covenants and conditions in our loan agreements. If we are not successful in continuing to support our operational and financial systems, expanding our management team and increasing and effectively managing our associate base, or managing our finances, this growth is likely to result in operational inefficiencies and ineffective management of the business and associates, or financial constraints or, in the worst case, default, any one or more of which may in turn adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. We experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. We typically realize a higher portion of our revenues and operating results during the fourth quarter. As a result of this seasonality, we believe that quarter to quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that these comparisons cannot be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of either a prior fiscal period or investors’ expectations. Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations include the following: the extent to which sales in new stores result in the loss of sales in existing stores; our direct market, accrual or pre-opening store expenses in one or more new store locations, resulting in higher operating expenses without a corresponding increase in revenues; the transaction costs and goodwill associated with acquisitions; the impairment of such goodwill and the adverse effect on our profitability in the event that future performance does not occur as planned; the mix of products sold; pricing actions of competitors; the levels of, and response rates and delays to, advertising and promotional expenses; and seasonality, primarily because the sales and profitability of our stores are typically slightly lower in the first and second quarters of the fiscal year than in other quarters. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising expense and employee salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short-term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and, therefore, this sales shortfall would have a disproportionately negative effect on our net income for the quarter. If businesses we acquire do not perform as well as we expect or have liabilities that we are not aware of, we could suffer consequences that would substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Our business strategy includes growth of our retail sales channel, both through the development and opening of new Dover branded store sites and the acquisition and conversion of existing retail stores to the Dover brand. Our financial performance may be adversely affected as the result of such acquisitions by such factors as: (1) difficulty in assimilating the acquired operations, and employees; (2) inability to successfully integrate the acquired inventory and operations into our business and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies, and procedures; (3) lower-than-expected loyalty of the customer base of the acquired business to Dover branded stores, and products; (4) post-acquisition variations in the product mix offered by the stores of the acquired business, resulting in lower revenues, and gross margins; (5) declines in revenues of stores of the acquired business from historical levels and those projected, and (6) the occurrence of any one or more of such factors might lead to the impairment of any goodwill associated with an acquisition, and have an adverse effect on our profitability. Further, businesses we acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities that are in excess of the amounts that we have estimated. Although we have obtained indemnification, we may discover liabilities greater than the contractual limits or the financial resources of the indemnifying party. In the event that we are responsible for liabilities substantially in excess of any amounts recovered through rights to indemnification, we could suffer severe consequences that would substantially reduce our revenues, earnings and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our shareholders may experience dilution in their ownership positions. We have historically granted options to employees as a significant part of our overall compensation package. As of December 31, 2009, our employees and non-employee directors held vested options in the aggregate to acquire 433,829 shares of common stock, all of which were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $5.91 per share. As previously reported, in December 2009, our CEO purchased for cash 76,937 shares of the Company’s common stock through exercise of an incentive stock option at $2.14 per share. To the extent that option holders exercise other vested outstanding options to purchase common stock, there may be further dilution. Future grants of stock-based compensation to employees may also result in dilution. We may raise additional funds through future sales of our common stock. Any such financing may result in additional dilution to our shareholders. In addition to causing dilution, stock option grants increase compensation expense and may negatively impact our stock price. Pursuant to current accounting rules, the Company has been required to take a current charge, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, for compensation expense associated with our grant of stock options. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $179,000 of non-cash, stock-based compensation expense. This charge has the effect of decreasing our net income and earnings per share, which may negatively impact our stock price. To the extent the Company makes future grants of stock-based compensation to employees, this charge will increase. If we cannot continue to successfully generate demand from our direct market channel, it would negatively impact our growth and profitability. Revenues from our direct market channel generated 67.4% of our revenues in 2009, and we expect such demand to continue to generate a majority of our revenues for at least the next several years. Our success depends on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products effectively through our various catalogs and Internet sites. We believe that the success of our direct market channel depends on: • favorable economic conditions; • our ability to offer a product mix that is attractive to our customers; • the price point of our products relative to our competitors; • our ability to achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • our ability to add new customers in a cost-effective manner; • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers; • an efficient Internet interface; • a seamless buying experience for our customers across both of our channels; and • cost effective and efficient order fulfillment. Catalog production, mailings and paper-based packing products, such as shipping cartons, entail substantial paper, postage, human resource and other costs, including costs of catalog development. We incur most of these costs prior to the mailing of each catalog. Increases in costs of mailing, paper or printing would increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings if we are unable to pass such cost increases on to our customers. The success of our direct market channel hinges on the achievement of adequate response rates to mailings, merchandising, catalog and website presentations that appeal to our customers, and the expansion of our potential customer base in a 20 Table of Contents cost-effective manner. Lack of consumer response to particular catalog or flier mailings or Internet marketing efforts may increase our costs and decrease the profitability of our business. The expected re-launch of our retail store rollout could cannibalize existing sales from our direct market channel or existing retail locations. In response to the recent economic recession, the Company has placed on hold its plan to rapidly increase the number of retail stores. When the economy begins to rebound, we expect to re-launch that plan. However, our strategy to increase the number of retail store locations is based on finding optimal locations where demand for equestrian products is high. When we open a retail store in an area that has a high concentration of our existing customers, we expect that such customers will purchase products in the retail location as well as through our catalogs and websites, ultimately increasing their total purchases as multi-market channel customers. Demand from our direct market channel in the geographic area surrounding our Hockessin, DE store declined 4% in the first year of such store’s operation. In the future, in areas where we open retail stores, the customers located within the area of such store may not spend more than they would have from the catalog and websites and therefore there may be a shift in demand from our direct market channel to our retail market channel. In such case, we may incur significant costs associated with opening a store, shipping product to that store and mailing catalogs while not generating incremental revenue. When we are able to re-launch our retail store expansion plan, our quarterly revenues and earnings could be variable and unpredictable and inventory levels will increase. Over the next several years, when the economy rebounds, we expect to renew our retail store expansion strategy. As we open new stores, (i) revenues may fluctuate, and (ii) pre-opening expenses are incurred which may not be offset by a corresponding increase in revenues during the same financial reporting period. These factors may contribute to variable operating results. Some of the expenses associated with openings of our new retail stores, such as headcount and lease occupancy, will increase. Additionally, as we increase inventory levels to provide stores with merchandise, we may not be able to manage this inventory without incurring additional costs. If retail store sales are inadequate to support these new costs, our earnings will decrease. We rely on service providers to operate our business and any disruption of or substantial increases in the costs of their supply of services could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on a number of service providers to operate our business such as: • a printer and a database processor to produce and mail our catalogs; • a website hosting service provider to host and manage our websites; • telephone companies to provide telephone and fax service to our customer service centers and to communicate between locations; and • shipping companies such as FedEx, the U.S. Postal Service, UPS, and common carriers for timely delivery of our catalogs, shipment of merchandise to our customers and delivery of merchandise from our suppliers, including foreign suppliers, to us and from our warehouse to our retail stores. Any disruption in these services, or substantial cost increases in these services, may have a negative impact on our ability to market and sell our products and serve our customers and could result in increased costs to us. 21 Table of Contents We rely on merchandise suppliers to operate our business and any disruption of their supply of products could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We rely on merchandise suppliers to supply our products in saleable condition, in sufficient quantities, at competitive prices and in a timely manner. We also rely on them to extend favorable sales terms for the purchase of their products. In 2009, our single largest merchandise supplier accounted for less than 11% of our sales. Our current merchandise suppliers may not be able to accommodate our anticipated product or credit needs in a timely manner or at all. Their business may be adversely affected by the current economic recession, which may curtail part or all of the products we procure from them. If we are unable to acquire suitable merchandise in a timely manner, obtain favorable credit terms, or lose one or more key merchandise suppliers, we may not be able to offer products that are important to our merchandise assortment, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe our merchandise supplier relationships are satisfactory, we have no contractual arrangements providing for continued supply or credit terms from our key merchandise suppliers and our merchandise suppliers may discontinue selling to us at any time or may raise the cost of merchandise and we may be unable to pass such price increases along to our customers. If we do not properly manage our inventory levels, our operating results and available funds for future growth will be adversely affected. We currently maintain a high level of inventory and have a broad depth of products for our customers. The investment associated with this high level of inventory is substantial. If we fail to adequately predict the amount or mix of our inventory, we will incur costs associated with stocking inventory that is not being sold or fails to meet the demands of our customers or we may be required to write- off or write-down inventory which would hurt our operating results. If we do not meet the needs of our customers, they may decide to purchase products from our competitors. Although we have some ability to return merchandise to our suppliers, we incur additional costs in doing so and we may not be able to return merchandise in the future. A natural disaster or other disruption at our Littleton, MA warehouse fulfillment center could cause us to lose merchandise and be unable to deliver products to our direct sales customers and our retail stores. We currently rely on our Littleton, MA warehouse to handle our fulfillment needs. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption to this center due to fire, flood, tornado, earthquake or any other calamity could damage a significant portion of our inventory, and materially impair our ability to adequately stock our retail stores, deliver merchandise to customers, and process returns to merchandise suppliers and could result in lost revenues and increased costs. If we lose key members of management or are unable to retain the talent required for our business, our operating results could suffer. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Stephen Day, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Jonathan Grylls, our Chief Operating Officer, and other key personnel including our senior executive management. We currently maintain two million dollars of key-man life insurance on Mr. Day, the proceeds of which are required to pay down outstanding debt. Effective as of September 1, 2005, we have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Day and Mr. Grylls, which contain provisions for non-competition, non-solicitation and severance. In addition, our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled and motivated, full-time and temporary sales personnel with appropriate equestrian products industry knowledge and retail experience to work in management and in our retail stores. The loss of the services of any one of these individuals or the inability to attract and retain qualified individuals for our 22 Table of Contents key management and retail sales positions may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may need additional financing to execute our growth strategy, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. Our current revolving credit facility is due in full on January 31, 2011, and its borrowing limit is scheduled for reduction to $13,000,000 on June 30, 2010, both of which conditions may limit our ability to finance the opening of all of our planned additional stores over the next several years. In order to satisfy our revolving credit facility when due and to execute our retail store expansion strategy, we may need to borrow additional funds, raise additional equity financing or finance our planned expansion from profits, but such borrowings or new financings might be limited by the covenants and other terms in other loan agreements. We may also need to raise additional capital in the future to respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated financial requirements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing, including the extension or refinancing of our revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. A failure to obtain additional financing or an inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms could require us to incur indebtedness at high rates of interest or with substantial restrictive covenants, including prohibitions on payment of dividends. We may obtain additional financing by issuing equity securities that will dilute the ownership interests of existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be forced to scale back operations or be unable to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of our operations. We rely on foreign sources for many of our products, which subjects us to various risks. We currently source approximately one quarter of our products from foreign manufacturers located in Europe, Asia and South America. As such, we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include currency rate fluctuations, import duties and quotas, work stoppages, economic uncertainties including inflation, foreign government regulations, wars and fears of war, acts of terrorism and fear of acts of terrorism, political unrest and trade restrictions. Additionally, countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future may become subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments. Any event affecting prices or causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign merchandise suppliers, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, currency rate fluctuations, restrictions on the transfer of funds or increased tariffs or quotas, or both, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our operating results. We do not currently, and we do not plan to, hedge against increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against any foreign currencies. Our product sourcing from foreign merchandise suppliers means, in part, that we may be affected by declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other foreign currencies. Specifically, as the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to other currencies, our effective cost of products increases. As a result, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies would adversely affect our operating results. When we re-launch our retail store expansion strategy, it may result in our direct market channel establishing a nexus with additional states, which may cause our business to pay additional income and sales tax and have an adverse effect on the demand and related cash flows from our direct market channel. When we re-launch our retail store expansion strategy and begin to open retail stores in additional states, the necessary relationship between the retail stores and our direct market channel 23 Table of Contents may be deemed by certain state tax authorities to create a nexus for state income and sales taxation of our business in those states. This could result in an increase in the tax collection and payment obligations of our business, which would have an adverse effect on the demand and related cash flows from our direct market channel and our overall business. Such sales tax collection obligations, if any, would increase the total cost of our products to our customers. This increased cost to our customers could negatively affect the revenues of our direct market channel if we are required to reduce the underlying prices for the products marketed through our direct market channel. The occurrence of either of these events would have an adverse effect on demand and related net cash flows from our direct market channel. This area of law is uncertain and changing and we could be subject to paying back taxes and penalties. If we fail to adequately protect our trademarks, our brand and reputation could be impaired or diluted and we could lose customers. We have, or have rights to, four trademarks that we consider to be material to the successful operation of our business: Dover Saddlery, Smith Brothers, Miller’s Harness and The Source. We currently use all of these marks in our direct channel business. We also have several additional pending trademark applications. We also regard our copyrights, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. In addition to our registered marks and pending applications, our principal intellectual property rights include copyrights in our catalogs, rights to our domain names and our databases and information management systems. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. Our trademark applications may not be granted, and we may not be able to secure significant protection for our marks. Our competitors or others may adopt trademarks or service marks similar to our marks or try to prevent us from using our marks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is unclear. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired or diluted and we may lose customers. We may have disputes with, or be sued by, third parties for infringement or misappropriation of their proprietary rights, which could have a negative impact on our business. Other parties may assert claims with respect to patent, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights that are important to our business, such as our Dover Saddlery, Smith Brothers and Miller’s Harness trademarks. Other parties might seek to block the use of, or seek monetary damages or other remedies for the prior use of, our intellectual property or the sale of our products as a violation of their trademark, patent or other proprietary rights. Defending any claims, even claims without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly settlements, litigation or restrictions on our business and could damage our reputation. In addition, there may be prior registrations or use of intellectual property in the U.S. or foreign countries (including, but not limited to, similar or competing marks or other proprietary rights) of which we are not aware. In all such countries, it may be possible for any third-party owner of a trademark registration in that country or other proprietary right to enjoin or limit our expansion into those countries or to seek damages for our use of such intellectual property in such countries. In the event a claim against us were successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant intellectual property or redesign or rename our products or operations to avoid infringement, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In addition, securing registrations does 24 Table of Contents not fully insulate us against intellectual property claims, as another party may have rights superior to our registration or our registration may be vulnerable to attack on various other grounds. Any such claims of infringement or misappropriation, whether meritorious or not, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend; • prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business; • cause us to cease selling certain products; • result in the loss of customers; • require us to re-label or re-design certain products, if feasible; • result in significant monetary liability; • divert management’s attention and resources; • potentially require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary intellectual property; and • force us to stop using valuable trademarks under which we market our products. Third parties might assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to any of our products. Any such assertion might require us to enter into royalty arrangements or litigation that could be costly to us. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to numerous regulations and regulatory changes that could impact our business or require us to modify our current business practices. We are subject to numerous regulations governing the Internet and e-commerce, retailers generally, the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise, and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. These regulations include customs, privacy, truth-in-advertising, consumer protection, shipping and zoning and occupancy laws and ordinances. Many of these laws and regulations may specifically impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. If these laws were to change, or are violated by our management, employees, suppliers, buying agents or trading companies, we could experience delays in shipments of our goods or be subject to fines or other penalties which could hurt our business, financial condition and results of operations. The growth and demand for online commerce has resulted, and may continue to result, in more stringent consumer compliance burdens on companies that operate in the e-commerce segment. Specifically, certain states have enacted various legislation with respect to consumer privacy. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission and certain state agencies have been investigating various Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. The costs of compliance with federal and state privacy laws and the costs that might be incurred in connection with any federal or state investigations could have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. Our direct market channel procedures are subject to regulation by the U.S. Postal Service, the Federal Trade Commission and various state, local and private consumer protection and other regulatory authorities. In general, these regulations govern the manner in which orders may be solicited, the form and content of advertisements, information which must be provided to prospective customers, the time within which orders must be filled, obligations to customers if orders are not shipped within a specified period of time and the time within which refunds must be paid if the ordered merchandise is unavailable or returned. From time to time, we have modified our methods of doing business and our marketing procedures in response to such regulation. To date, such regulation has not had a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. However, future regulatory requirements or actions may have a material adverse effect on our business or operating results. 25 Table of Contents Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures or modify our business practices to comply with laws and regulations. Compliance with existing or future laws and regulations may materially limit our ability to operate our business and increase our costs. Our 100% satisfaction guarantee exposes us to the risk of an increase in our return rates which could adversely affect our profitability. Part of our marketing and advertising strategy focuses on allowing customers to return products ordered from our catalogs at any time if they are not satisfied and obtain a refund of the purchase price. As we expand our sales, our return rates may not remain within our historically low levels and could significantly impair our profitability. Our marketing expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire and we may not be able to manage our marketing expenditures on a cost-effective basis. A significant component of our marketing strategy involves the use of direct marketing to generate sales, from both our direct and retail market channels. Future growth and profitability will depend in part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our marketing expenditures, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our products and brand name; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future marketing expenditures; • effectively manage marketing costs, including creative and media, to maintain acceptable costs per inquiry, costs per order and operating margins; and re-growth of revenue when the economy rebounds; and • convert inquiries into actual orders. Our marketing expenditures may not result in increased sales or generate sufficient levels of product and brand name awareness and we may not be able to maintain market share in the short run or manage such marketing expenditures on a cost effective basis. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. To the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no unresolved staff comments as of December 31, 2009. 