ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Current economic conditions may cause further declines in casino gaming activity and other consumer spending which could adversely affect the financial performance of the casinos we manage and/or own and result in lower revenue to us. 8 Our operating results and performance depend significantly on the current economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending in the casinos we manage and/or own. The decline in consumer spending resulting from the recession and the deterioration of capital and credit markets may cause our revenue generated from the casinos we manage and/or own to be adversely impacted. Extreme competition exists in the gaming industry. The gaming industry is highly competitive and continues to proliferate throughout the country as more jurisdictions are choosing to allow gaming or its expansion. The casinos managed or invested in by us compete with all forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do which limits our ability to pursue certain opportunities. Further expansion of gaming could also significantly adversely affect our business. Because our primary source of revenue is generated from our management agreement with the Shingle Springs Tribe for the Red Hawk Casino which has a finite term, our failure to develop new profitable business opportunities would impact our future growth, cash flow and profitability. The primary source of our revenues in fiscal 2012 was generated from our management agreement relating to the Red Hawk Casino, which expires in December 2015. If the development of the Rocky Gap Resort isn’t profitable, or if we fail to develop new business opportunities that generate cash receipts, or if our remaining management agreement continues to generate only revenues which are deferred, our future growth, cash flow and profitability will be adversely impacted. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We may diversify into other businesses. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. Diversification activities may never successfully add to our future revenues and income and the costs of evaluating potential business opportunities may adversely impact our profitability during the periods they are incurred. The commencement or completion of casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. The opening of a future facility, including the gaming facility at the Rocky Gap Resort, will be contingent upon, among other things, receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations, the completion of construction and the hiring and training of sufficient personnel. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open a facility will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of a facility or otherwise affect the design and features of a proposed casino. Even once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities may not begin or be completed on time, or at any other time. The budget for a project may also be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or other delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, or prevent the construction or opening of any of the planned casino development, or otherwise affect its design. 9 Because our operating results are highly dependent on the timing of our project under development, delays could cause our results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. Failure of our existing, proposed and other prospective casino projects to successfully compete may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include: traditional land-based casinos; river boat and dockside gaming; casino gaming on Indian land; state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels; pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing; sports bookmaking; online gaming; and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our planned managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. Existing payment obligations to us from the Shingle Springs Tribe may be restructured. The Shingle Springs Tribe has agreed to an amended tribal-state gaming compact with the State of California. The amended compact, which requires final approval by the California legislature and the Secretary of the Interior, will reduce the required revenue share payments to California. The amended compact also requires the Shingle Springs Tribe to restructure its payment obligations due and payable to us by December 15, 2015. Until we agree to a mutually acceptable restructuring of the obligations, our existing agreements will remain in effect. However, it is possible that a restructuring would mean that we would not receive full payment for obligations owed to us or that we may otherwise agree to terms that are different than the current terms. The early termination or modification of our management agreement with the Shingle Springs Tribe may reduce or eliminate our revenues under such agreement. Our current management agreement has a finite life and provides that such agreement may be terminated under certain circumstances including, without limitation, upon the failure to maintain the NIGC’s approval for such agreements, the loss of requisite gaming licenses, or an exercise by the Shingle Springs Tribe of its buy-out option. In addition, the NIGC has the authority to require a modification of such agreement in a manner which may have an adverse effect on us. Such termination or modification may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) applicable to gaming facilities, we may be unable to operate or develop casino projects. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant shareholders, or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. 10 If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management, development, consulting or financing agreements with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to Indian tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos to be managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from an Indian tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. In addition, we have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to an Indian tribe and other distributions due from an Indian tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the Indian tribe to other parties related to the development and operation of the casinos. Accordingly, in the event of a default by an Indian tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the Indian tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the Indian tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delay or termination of a casino project and prevent or significantly impede recovery of our investment therein. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our existing and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and execute management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing an Indian tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of Indian tribal officials or administrations, changes in policies to which an Indian tribe is subject, or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe may lead to termination of a management agreement, which may have an adverse effect on the future results of our operations. If the Red Hawk Casino fails, or does not achieve sufficient results of operations, our recorded assets related to that project will be impaired and there may be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The majority of our assets related to Indian casino projects are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheet and are in the form of loans to the Shingle Springs Tribe. These loans, except for the current portion, are included as notes receivable on the consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At December 30, 2012, we had $46.2 million in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $38.2 million was in the form of notes and interest receivable from the Shingle Springs Tribe. The notes receivable represented approximately 32% of our total assets. All of the loans are subject to collection risk and there is no established market. The repayment terms of these notes receivable are largely dependent upon the operating performance of the Red Hawk Casino. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the Red Hawk Casino. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in the agreement with the Shingle Springs Tribe. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management agreement is subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the Shingle Springs Tribe. In order to assist the Red Hawk Casino in increasing cash levels, we will defer allowed payments of principal on the loans, if any, through December 2013. The amounts due to us from the Jamul Tribe will likely not be paid until and unless it opens a gaming facility on its reservation. We determined that we would not move forward with the Jamul Casino Project and terminated our agreement with the Jamul Tribe in March 2012. As of the date of termination, we had advanced approximately $57.5 million including accrued interest to the Jamul Tribe related to casino development efforts. As a result of the termination of our agreement with the Jamul Tribe, we determined the fair value of the notes receivable from the Jamul Tribe to be zero. Although the Jamul Tribe remains obligated to repay all advances including accrued interest, it is not contemplated that the Jamul Tribe will have sufficient funds to make such payments unless it opens a gaming facility on its reservation. We continue to have a collateral interest in all revenues from any future casino owned by the Tribe, and the casino’s furnishings and equipment. We cannot be assured of the repayment of these amounts. 11 The litigation brought forth by Sharp Image Gaming, Inc. against the Shingle Springs Tribe could impact the timing of management fee payments and/or loan repayments to Lakes. During 2007, Sharp Image Gaming, Inc. (“Sharp Image”) filed a lawsuit against the Shingle Springs Tribe seeking amounts from the Shingle Springs Tribe related to prior loans and an alleged agreement for the supplying of gaming machines to the Shingle Springs Tribe. The amount sought in the lawsuit filed by Sharp Image was in excess of $100 million. During December 2011, Sharp Image obtained a judgment against the Shingle Springs Tribe in the amount of approximately $30.0 million. The Shingle Springs Tribe is appealing the judgment and believes that the judgment is against legal precedent and that the judgment cannot be collected from the Shingle Springs Tribe or the Red Hawk Casino. However, if the judgment is upheld on appeal and results in any impact to the Red Hawk Casino’s cash position, Lakes’ management fee payments and loan repayments could be delayed. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our senior corporate management, and the loss of their services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have obtained a $8.0 million key man life insurance policy on Mr. Berman, we do not maintain key man life insurance on other members of senior corporate management. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. Additional classes of stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. Our shareholders may be required to provide information that is requested by gaming authorities and we have the right, under certain circumstances, to redeem a shareholder’s securities. Our Articles of Incorporation require our shareholders to provide information that is requested by authorities that regulate our current or proposed gaming operations. Our Articles of Incorporation also permit us to redeem the securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of the Lakes’ Board of Directors, jeopardizes existing gaming licenses or approvals of Lakes or its subsidiaries. The price paid for these securities is, in general, the average closing price for the 30 trading days prior to giving notice of redemption. We may be forced to use our cash or incur debt to fund redemption of our securities. In the event a shareholder’s background or status jeopardizes our current or proposed gaming licensure, we may be required to redeem such shareholder’s securities in order to continue gaming operations or obtain a gaming license. This redemption may divert our cash resources from other productive uses and require us to obtain additional financing which, if in the form of equity financing, will be dilutive to our shareholders. Further, any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our finite assets. The inability to obtain additional financing to redeem a disqualified shareholder’s securities may result in the loss of a current or potential gaming license. 12 The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; • future sales of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock and have the ability to issue additional options, each of which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 30, 2012, we had options outstanding to acquire 1.5 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $1.89 to $6.43 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $3.04 per share. As of December 30, 2012, there were 875,627 remaining shares available to grant under the existing stock option plans. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of December 30, 2012, these shares consist of approximately 7.1 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 