Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: This 10-K and our Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ending April 30, 2013 contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance and financial condition. In addition, the Company provides forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public as well as oral forward-looking information. Statements which contain the words anticipate, expect, believes, estimate, project, forecast, plan, outlook, intend and similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, and are subject to change based on many important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to (i) the level of investment in new technologies and products; (ii) subscriber renewal rates for the Company’s journals; (iii) the financial stability and liquidity of journal subscription agents; (iv) the consolidation of book wholesalers and retail accounts; (v) the market position and financial stability of key retailers; (vi) the seasonal nature of the Company’s education business and the impact of the used-book market; (vii) worldwide economic and political conditions; (viii) the Company’s ability to protect its copyrights and other intellectual property worldwide; (ix) the ability of the Company to successfully integrate acquired operations and realize expected opportunities and (x) other factors detailed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Operating and Administrative Costs and Expenses In general, any significant increase in the costs of goods and services provided to the Company may adversely affect the Company’s costs of operation. The Company has a significant investment in its employee base around the world. The Company offers competitive salaries and benefits in order to attract and retain the highly skilled workforce needed to sustain and develop new products and services required for growth. Employment and benefit costs are affected by competitive market conditions for qualified individuals, and factors such as healthcare, pension and retirement benefit costs. The Company is a large paper purchaser, and paper prices may fluctuate significantly from time-to-time. To reduce the impact of paper price increases, the Company relies upon multiple suppliers. The Company from time-to-time may hedge the exposure to fluctuations in price by entering into multi-year supply contracts. As of April 30, 2013, the Company’s consolidated paper inventory was approximately $6.6 million and there were no outstanding multi-year supply contracts. Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Substantially all of the Company’s publications are protected by copyright, held either in the Company’s name, in the name of the author of the work, or in the name of the sponsoring professional society. Such copyrights protect the Company’s exclusive right to publish the work in many countries abroad for specified periods, in most cases the author’s life plus 70 years, but in any event a minimum of 50 years for works published after 1978. The ability of the Company to continue to achieve its expected results depends, in part, upon the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company’s results may be adversely affected by lack of legal and/or technological protections for its intellectual property in some jurisdictions and markets. Maintaining the Company’s Reputation Professionals worldwide rely upon many of the Company’s publications to perform their jobs. It is imperative that the Company consistently demonstrates its ability to maintain the integrity of the information included in its publications. Adverse publicity, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for the Company’s publications. Trade Concentration and Credit Risk In the journal publishing business, subscriptions are primarily sourced through journal subscription agents who, acting as agents for library customers, facilitate ordering by consolidating the subscription orders/billings of each subscriber with various publishers. Cash is generally collected in advance from subscribers by the subscription agents and is principally remitted to the Company between the months of December and March. Although at fiscal year-end the Company had minimal credit risk exposure to these agents, future calendar-year subscription receipts from these agents are highly dependent on their financial condition and liquidity. Subscription agents account for approximately 24% of total annual consolidated revenue and no one agent accounts for more than 10% of total annual consolidated revenue. The Company’s book business is not dependent upon a single customer; however, the industry is concentrated in national, regional, and online bookstore chains. Although no one book customer accounts for more than 10% of total consolidated revenue and 14% of accounts receivable at April 30, 2013, the top 10 book customers account for approximately 19% of total consolidated revenue and approximately 38% of accounts receivable at April 30, 2013. Changes in Laws and Regulations That Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Business The Company maintains publishing, marketing and distribution centers in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and the United States. The conduct of our business, including the sourcing of content, distribution, sales, marketing and advertising is subject to various laws and regulations administered by governments around the world. Changes in laws, regulations or government policies, including tax regulations and accounting standards, may adversely affect the Company’s future financial results. In a recent decision, the US Supreme Court, reversing decisions by the District Court for the Southern District of New York and Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, held that the “first sale” doctrine of United States Copyright Law applied to copies of US copyrighted material printed outside of the United States. This decision would allow third parties who purchase works meant for sale only within a particular non-US territory to resell those works in the United States. These works are often available outside the US at prices significantly below those of the US editions to meet local market pricing conditions. Works developed for sale in markets outside the United States are often not substitutes for similar US editions because they are materially different. However, any widespread resale in the United States of lower cost works could adversely impact the Company’s operating results. As a result of the change in law, the Company adjusted its business practice in selling into lower priced markets. The decision principally affects the operations of the Company’s Education business. (See page 20 for a further discussion). The scientific research publishing industry generates much of its revenue from paid customer subscriptions to online and print journal content. There is debate within government, academic and library communities whether such journal content should be made available for free, immediately or following a period of embargo after publication, referred to as “open access”. For instance, certain governments are considering mandating that all publications containing information derived from government-funded research be made available to the public at no cost. Open access can be achieved in two ways: Green, which enables authors to publish articles in subscription based journals and self–archive the author accepted version of the article for free public use after an embargo period, and Gold, which enables authors to publish their articles in journals that provide immediate free access to the article on the publisher’s website following payment of an article publication fee. These mandates have the potential to put pressure on subscription-based publications and favor business models funded by author fees or government and private subsidies. If such regulations are widely implemented, the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. Business Transformation and Restructuring The Company is transforming portions of its business from a traditional publishing model to being a global provider of content-enabled solutions with a focus on digital products and services. The Deltak, Inscape and ELS acquisitions, along with the divestment of the Company’s consumer publishing programs, are examples of strategic initiatives that were implemented as part of the Company’s business transformation. The Company will continue to explore opportunities to develop new business models and enhance the efficiency of its organizational structure. The rapid pace and scope of change increases the risk that not all of our strategic initiatives will deliver the expected benefits within the anticipated timeframes. In addition, these efforts may somewhat disrupt the Company’s business activities which could adversely affect its operating results. In fiscal year 2013, the Company announced a program to restructure and realign its cost base with current and anticipated future market conditions (see Note 10). When implemented, the plan is expected to improve margins by reducing operating expenses and cost of sales and accelerate earnings growth while providing increased capacity for investment to grow our digital businesses. Significant risks associated with these actions that may impair the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated cost reductions or that may disrupt its business include delays in the implementation of anticipated workforce reductions in highly regulated locations outside of the U.S., particularly in Europe and Asia, decreases in employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of key employees. In addition, the Company’s ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected timeframe is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Introduction of New Technologies, Products and Services The Company must continue to invest in technological and other innovations to adapt and add value to its products and services to remain competitive. There are uncertainties whenever developing new products and services, and it is often possible that such new products and services may not be launched or if launched, may not be profitable or as profitable as existing products and services. A common trend facing each of the Company’s businesses is the digitization of content and proliferation of distribution channels through the internet and other electronic means, which are replacing traditional print formats. The trend to eBooks has also created contraction in the print book retail market which increases the risk of bankruptcy for certain retail customers, potentially leading to the disruption of short-term product supply to consumers as well as potential bad debt write-offs. New distribution channels, such as digital formats, the internet, online retailers and growing delivery platforms (e.g. tablets and e-readers), combined with the concentration of retailer power, present both threats and opportunities to the Company’s traditional publishing models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing. In addition, there is an enhanced risk associated with the illegal unauthorized replication and distribution of digital products. Information Technology Risks Information technology is a key part of the Company’s business strategy and operations. As a business strategy, Wiley’s technology enables the Company to provide customers with new and enhanced products and services and is critical to the Company’s success in migrating from print to digital business models. Information technology is also a fundamental component of all our business processes; collecting and reporting business data; and communicating internally and externally with customers, suppliers, employees and others. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could significantly disrupt the operations of the Company. Management has designed and implemented policies, processes and controls to mitigate risks of information technology failure and to provide security from unauthorized access to our systems. In addition, the Company has in place disaster recovery plans to maintain business continuity. While the Company has taken steps to address these risks, there can be no assurance that a system failure, disruption or data security breach would not adversely affect the Company’s business and operating results. Competition for Market Share and Author and Society Relationships The Company operates in highly competitive markets. Success and continued growth depends greatly on developing new products and the means to deliver them in an environment of rapid technological change. Attracting new authors and professional societies, while retaining our existing business relationships, are also critical to our success. Student Demand for Lower Cost Textbooks in Higher Education The Company’s Education business publishes educational content for undergraduate, graduate and advanced placement students, lifelong learners and in Australia secondary school students. Due to growing demand by students for less expensive textbooks, many college bookstores, online retailers and other entities offer used or rental textbooks to students at lower prices than new. It is uncertain what the ultimate impact will be on Wiley’s results from such lower priced textbook sales models. Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk Non-U.S. revenues, as well as our substantial non-U.S. net assets, expose the Company’s results to foreign currency exchange rate volatility. Fiscal year 2013 revenue was recognized in the following currencies (as measured in U.S. dollar equivalents): approximately 56% U.S dollar; 27% British pound sterling; 8% euro and 9% other currencies. In addition, our interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the Market Risk section of this 10-K. For additional details, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this 10-K which is incorporated herein by reference. Notwithstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our business. Changes in Tax Legislation The Company is subject to tax laws within the jurisdictions in which it does business. Changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on the Company’s financial results. There have been recent proposals to reform U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on earnings outside of the U.S. This could have a material impact on the Company’s financial results since a substantial portion of the Company’s income is earned outside the U.S. In addition, the Company is subject to audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals and have a material impact on the Company’s net income, cash flow and financial position. Risk of Doing Business in Developing and Emerging Markets The Company sells its products to customers in the Middle East (including Iran and Syria), Africa (including Sudan), Cuba, and other developing markets where it does not have operating subsidiaries. In addition, approximately 10% of Research journal articles are sourced from authors in China. The Company does not own any assets or liabilities in these markets except for trade receivables. Challenges and uncertainties associated with operating in developing markets has a higher relative risk due to political instability, economic volatility, crime, terrorism, corruption, social and ethnic unrest, and other factors. While sales in these markets are not material to the Company’s business results, adverse developments related to the risks associated with these markets may cause actual results to differ from historical and forecasted future operating results. Disruption in these markets could also trigger a decrease in consumer purchasing power, resulting in a reduced demand for our products. Liquidity and Global Economic Conditions Changes in global financial markets have not had, nor do we anticipate they will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or our results of operations will not be affected by possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. Similar to other global businesses, we face the potential effects of a global economic recession. Unprecedented market conditions including illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency rates and economic recession could affect future results. Effects of Increases in Pension Costs and Funding Requirements The Company provides defined benefit pension plans for the majority of its employees worldwide. In March 2013 the Company’s Board of Directors approved amendments to the U.S. defined benefit plans that froze the plans, which will be effective on June 30, 2013. The funding requirements and costs of these plans are dependent upon various factors, including the actual return on plan assets, discount rates, plan participant population demographics and changes in pension regulations. Changes in these factors affect the Company’s plan funding, cash flow and results of operations. A further discussion on how these factors could impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements is included on page 54 within the Management’s Discussion and Analysis section of this 10-K and incorporated herein by reference. Effects of Inflation and Cost Increases The Company, from time to time, experiences cost increases reflecting, in part, general inflationary factors. There is no guarantee that the Company can increase selling prices or reduce costs to fully mitigate the effect of inflation on company costs. Ability to Successfully Integrate Key Acquisitions The Company’s growth strategy includes title, imprint and other business acquisitions which complement the Company’s existing businesses; the development of new products and services; designing and implementing new methods of delivering products to our customers, and organic growth from existing brands and titles. Acquisitions may have a substantial impact on the Company’s revenues, costs, cash flows, and financial position. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations and in realizing expected opportunities; diversions of management resources and loss of key employees; challenges with respect to operating new businesses; debt incurred in financing such acquisitions; and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. Attracting and Retaining Key Employees The Company’s success is highly dependent upon the retention of key employees globally. In addition, we are dependent upon our ability to continue to attract new employees with key skills to support continued business growth. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 