ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report. If any of the events contemplated by the risk factors discussed below actually impact us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We operate in a heavily regulated environment. We and our subsidiaries are regulated by several regulators, including the Federal Reserve, the FDIC and the OFR. Our success is affected by state and federal regulations affecting banks and bank holding companies, and the securities markets and securities and insurance regulators. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. The financial services industry also is subject to frequent legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes, including sweeping changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected and may continue to affect us and the financial services industry. We are exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which we operate in Florida. Declines in the housing markets, including falling home prices and low sales volumes, as well as foreclosures, have negatively affected the credit performance of mortgage and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks, as well as the Bank. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility, reduced real estate values and sales volumes, reduced credit availability for real estate borrowers and reductions in business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and borrowers, and reduced confidence in the financial markets, has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although the difficult conditions in the financial markets appear to be stabilizing or improving, a continuation or worsening of present conditions would likely have adverse effects on us and other financial institutions. In particular: • Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers or to estimate the values of our assets and collateral for loans will be reduced if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates. We estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure, the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and the values of certain assets by using estimates based on difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including estimates as to the effects of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of assets. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all, or to raise capital, could be adversely affected by disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including, among other things, changes in investor expectations. • Failures of other depository institutions in our markets and increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could increase our deposits and assets, necessitating additional capital, and may have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively or attract capital. We have incurred losses in the past two years and there is no assurance that these losses will not continue in future periods. We have incurred losses in the past two years and there is no assurance that these losses will not continue in future periods. If economic conditions in the Jacksonville, Florida area further deteriorate, borrowers’ ability to repay loans may deteriorate and the underlying value of our loan collateral may decline. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of the markets we serve. Unlike larger organizations that are more geographically diverse, our operations are concentrated in the Jacksonville, Florida area. As a result of our geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in this market area. If economic conditions in our market area continue to deteriorate, the number of borrowers that are unable 18 Table of Contents to repay their loans on a timely basis could increase. This is particularly true because a number of our borrowers are small businesses that may be less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers. Consequently, their ability to repay loans may be especially adversely affected during economic downturns. This could lead to higher rates of loss and loan payment delinquencies. Moreover, the value of the real estate or other collateral that may secure our loans could be adversely affected if economic conditions in Jacksonville deteriorate further. If a borrower is unable to repay its loan and the value of the underlying real estate collateral declines to a point that is below the amount of our loan then we will suffer a loss. Weaknesses in the real estate markets, including the secondary market for residential mortgage loans, have adversely affected us and may continue to adversely affect us. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, further adversely affecting the liquidity and value of collateral securing commercial loans for residential land acquisition, construction and development, as well as residential mortgage loans and residential property collateral securing loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Declining real estate prices have caused higher delinquencies and losses on certain mortgage loans, generally, particularly second lien mortgages and home equity lines of credit. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for, and liquidity of, most residential mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. These trends could continue, notwithstanding various government programs to boost the residential mortgage markets and stabilize the housing markets. Declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would adversely affect our financial condition, including capital and liquidity, or results of operations. In the event our allowance for loan losses is insufficient to cover such losses, our earnings, capital and liquidity could be adversely affected. Our concentration of real estate loans could result in further increased loan losses and needs for regulatory capital. Our total real estate loans were 91.4% and 92.0% of our total loans at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. CRE loans are especially cyclical and pose risks of loss to us due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset, especially since we had 66.4% and 65.3% of our loan portfolio in CRE loans at year-end 2011 and 2010, respectively. The banking regulators continue to give CRE lending greater scrutiny, and banks with higher levels of CRE loans are expected to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchases, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. The Bank also can use eligible collateral to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. We maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits (subject to applicable regulatory restrictions, if any), the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the 19 Table of Contents financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Bancorp has material company debt in the form of junior subordinated debt related to trust preferred securities and senior revolving debt. Bancorp had approximately $16.0 million of junior subordinated debentures issued incident to trust preferred securities, and another $4.3 million of other liabilities, including revolving debt outstanding and owing to Bancorp directors at December 31, 2011. Bancorp historically has depended upon dividends from the Bank to pay its expenses, including interest on, and principal of, Bancorp’s indebtedness. Currently, the Bank cannot pay dividends on its common stock without prior regulatory approval while maintaining acceptable capital. Bancorp has depended on the revolving line of credit from its directors and cash on hand to pay its operating and interest expenses. Bancorp had approximately $1.9 million of cash on December 31, 2011, and $1.0 million of available funds under its revolving line of credit. There is no assurance that the amount of cash and borrowing capacity under the existing lines of credit will be sufficient to meet Bancorp’s expenses after 2012. Changes in accounting and tax rules applicable to banks could adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support such growth. Reputational risk and social factors may impact our results. Our ability to originate and maintain accounts is highly dependent upon customer and other external perceptions of our business practices and our financial health. Adverse perceptions regarding our business practices or our financial health could damage our reputation in both the customer and funding markets, leading to difficulties in generating and maintaining accounts as well as in financing them. Adverse developments with respect to the consumer or other external perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors, or our industry as a whole, may also adversely impact our reputation. Adverse impacts on our reputation, or the reputation of our industry, may also result in greater regulatory or legislative scrutiny, which may lead to laws, regulations or regulatory actions that may change or constrain the manner in which we engage with our customers and the products we offer. Adverse reputational impacts or events may also increase our litigation risk. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operating results. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our senior management team. We rely heavily on our senior management because, as a community bank, it is our management’s extensive knowledge of, and relationships in, the community that generate business for us. Successful execution of our growth strategy will continue to place significant demands on our management and the loss of any such person’s services may 20 Table of Contents adversely affect our growth and profitability. We are primarily dependent upon the services of Price W. Schwenck, President and Chief Executive Officer; Scott M. Hall, Executive Vice President and Bank President; and Valerie A. Kendall, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. If the services of these individuals were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we were unable to hire highly qualified and experienced personnel to replace them, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may continue to acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, and negotiations and consummation of any such transactions; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we would expect. We may issue equity securities, including common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. Customers may not repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The risk that customers may fail to repay their loans is inherent in any bank lending relationship. If our loans are not repaid in accordance with the loan terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the nature of our market, a significant portion of our loan portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 56.5% of our $462.8 million loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. The recent downturn in the real estate market, the continued deterioration in the value of collateral, and the local and national economic recessions have adversely affected our clients’ ability to sell or refinance real estate and 21 Table of Contents repay their loans. If these conditions persist, or get worse, our clients’ ability to repay their loans will be further eroded. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover enough from the collateral to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and sales volumes, lack of alternative financing and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. The amount that we, as a mortgagee, may realize after a default and foreclosure is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: • general or local economic conditions; • environmental cleanup liability; • neighborhood values; • real estate tax rates; • operating expenses of the foreclosed properties; • ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; • zoning laws, governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and • natural disasters. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect real estate owned. In the course of our business, we foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We have been aggressively managing problem assets and, as a result, we have taken title to the underlying collateral for a number of underperforming loans. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $8.0 million categorized as “other real estate owned.” We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our regulatory requirements, would be adversely affected. Both Bancorp and the Bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and our regulators may modify and adjust such requirements in the future. The Bank has agreed in Memorandum with the FDIC and the OFR to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.00% and a Tier 1 leverage or “core” ratio of 8.00% after January 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011, we were adequately capitalized for regulatory purposes, and does not meet the capital requirements of the Memorandum. If this noncompliance or other events cause the Bank to become subject to formal enforcement action, the FDIC could determine that the bank is no longer “well capitalized” for regulatory 22 Table of Contents purposes. Our failure to remain “well capitalized” for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to make distributions on our trust preferred securities, and our business, results of operation, liquidity and financial condition, generally. If we were deemed “adequately capitalized”, we could only accept or renew brokered deposits if we received a waiver from the FDIC and we could only pay rates not more than 75 basis points over the local or national market for similar deposits. Any lower levels of capital would preclude our future use of brokered deposits. At December 31, 2011, the Bank had approximately $17.7 million of brokered deposits, and $50.3 million of non-brokered deposits obtained outside our local markets. We expect to need to raise additional capital in 2012 to improve our asset quality, Bancorp’s liquidity and to meet our regulatory capital requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise sufficient additional capital as needed on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet our capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Additional capital may not be available when needed, and if available, could result in dilution of our shareholders’ ownership interests. Any capital that is generated by our operations over the next several years is expected to be needed to support our operations. Additionally, our Board may determine from time to time that, we need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances likely would dilute the ownership interest of our then-current shareholders, including the per share book value of our common stock and would only require shareholder approval under certain circumstances. The terms of security issuances by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants, which may have a further dilutive effect. Also, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs, whether or not an offering is completed successfully. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. All of our loan portfolios have been affected by the sustained economic weakness of our markets and the effects of higher unemployment rates. Our commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related loans have been especially affected by adverse market conditions, including reduced real estate prices and sales levels. All our loans, but particularly our commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related loans, especially construction and development loans, have been affected adversely by the on-going correction in real estate prices, reduced levels of sales during the recession, and the economic weakness of our Florida markets and the effects of higher unemployment rates. We may have to increase our allowance for loan losses through additional provisions for loan losses because of continued adverse changes in the economy, market conditions, and events that adversely affect our customers or markets. Our business, financial condition, liquidity, capital (especially tangible common equity), and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by additional provisions for loan losses. We are subject to internal control reporting requirements that increase compliance costs and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the SEC, the Public Company 23 Table of Contents Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to include management reports on internal controls as part of our annual report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The SEC also has proposed a number of new rules or regulations requiring additional disclosure, including compensation rules under the Dodd-Frank Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. Our failure to track and comply with the various rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, and the value of our securities. Current levels of market volatility have been significant, and negative conditions and new developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets have and may continue to adversely affect our operations, financial performance and stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for the past several years. The markets have placed downward pressure on stock prices and the availability of capital, credit and liquidity has been adversely affected for many issuers, in some cases, without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and credit, and on our business, financial condition (including liquidity) and results of operations. Uncertainty about the economy and its direction and growth as well as high unemployment have adversely affected the financial markets. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many financial institutions, including ours, resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting loans, especially with respect to Florida real estate. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like us, have been negatively affected by the recent and current conditions in the financial markets, as has our ability to raise capital as needed, compared to the period preceeding the latest economic recession. Our location on the east coast of Florida makes us susceptible to weather-related problems. Our Bank branches and corporate headquarters are located in the Jacksonville, Florida area and are vulnerable to tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes and flood and wind damage. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future weather events will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in the delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future weather events. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in our markets. Recent legislation and government actions in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions and the financial services industry. The CFPB was created largely to administer and enforce consumer and fair lending laws, a function that has historically been performed by the depository institution regulators. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the act are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible changes to future consumer and fair lending regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the limits on federal deposit insurance to $250,000. In addition, the federal government is coordinating reforms with other countries. There can be no assurance that these various initiatives or any other future legislative or regulatory initiatives will be successful at improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. 24 Table of Contents The costs of FDIC assessments have increased substantially since 2008 and are expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory assessments increased substantially, from $417,000 in 2008 to $1.0 million in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011. We expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s DIF and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule which raised deposit insurance premiums, and the FDIC has also implemented a special assessment on all depository institutions. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009, 2010 and 2011 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future, especially with our levels of problem assets and related risks. Such costs will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Increases to our allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, anticipated experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for probable loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. Our regulators may also require us to add to our provision for loan losses in the ordinary course of their review of the Bank. As of December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was $13.0 million, which represented 2.82% of our total amount of loans. We had approximately $46.9 million in nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2011 plus 8.0 million of real estate owned assets, compared to $35.0 million and $5.7 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. We monitor our asset quality and seek to maintain an adequate loan loss allowance. The allowance may not prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our nonperforming or performing loans. Accordingly, the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses, or significant increases to the allowance may be required in the future if economic conditions should worsen. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income and our capital, among other adverse consequences. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2011, our nonperforming loans were $46.9 million, or 10.1% of our gross loan portfolio, and our nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans) were $54.9 million, or 9.8% of total assets. In addition, we had approximately $7.8 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2011. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may continue to incur additional losses relating to nonperforming loans including losses on potential disposition of loans and foreclosed assets. We do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. We incur the costs of funding problem assets and other real estate owned, however. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to our then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. In addition, given the increased levels of mortgage foreclosures in our market areas, 25 Table of Contents the foreclosure process is now taking longer than it has in the recent past; this has served to increase the cost of foreclosures and the time needed to take title to the underlying property. Once we take possession to foreclosed real estate, the costs of maintenance, taxes, security and potential environmental liability can be significant and serve to decrease the amount of recovery we may realize upon a sale of the property. As described above, our nonperforming assets can adversely affect our net income in a variety of ways, which negatively affects our results of operations and financial condition. While we have used loan sales, workouts, restructurings and otherwise to improve our levels of problem assets, decreases in the value of these assets, or the underlying collateral, or in the related borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience further increases in nonperforming loans in the future, or that nonperforming assets will not result in further losses in the future. We have had to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets and reduce our deferred tax asset to zero. We evaluate the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and the actual results as of the end of 2011, we determined to establish a valuation allowance for all our deferred tax assets, based on available evidence at the time, that it was more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets would not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, we may or may not be able to recapture these deferred tax assets in future periods. We could be negatively impacted by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including continued declines in real estate market values and sales volumes, rapid changes in interest rates or the yield curve, and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is largely a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and those paid on deposits and other liabilities. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates may affect our levels of interest income, interest expense and net interest spread and margin. If our assets reprice more slowly than our deposits and other liabilities, our earnings will be adversely affected if interest rates rise, but will benefit if the interest rates on our earning assets rise more quickly than the interest rates we pay on our deposits and other liabilities. Most banks, including us, have experienced compression and reduced interest spreads and margins as a result of current historically low interest rates. Our interest spreads and net interest margins are also affected by the shape of the yield curve, which is affected especially by monetary policy, including the Federal Reserve’s actions to keep interest rates low in recent years and its stated intent to maintain this stance into late 2014. While we seek to manage our interest-rate risk, these measures are based on estimates and assumptions that may not be realized. We are dependent on the operating performance of the Bank to provide us with operating funds in the form of cash dividends, and the Bank is subject to regulatory limitations regarding the payment of dividends. We are a bank holding company and are dependent upon dividends from the Bank for funds to pay expenses and, if declared, cash dividends to shareholders. A Florida state-chartered commercial bank may not pay cash 26 Table of Contents dividends that would cause the bank’s capital to fall below the minimum amount required by federal or state law. Accordingly, commercial banks may only pay dividends out of the total of current net profits plus retained net profits of the preceding two years to the extent it deems expedient, except no bank may pay a dividend at any time that the total of net income for the current year when combined with retained net income from the preceding two years produces a loss. The Bank cannot currently pay dividends without prior regulatory approval. Therefore, the Bank may not be able to provide us with adequate funds to conduct our ongoing operations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We compete in a highly competitive market. We face competition for deposits, loans and other financial services from other community banks, regional banks, out-of-state and in-state national banks, savings banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, including consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, mutual funds, and other lending sources and alternative investment providers. Some of these financial institutions and financial services organizations are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Many of our competitors offer products and services different from us, and have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence than we do, which benefits them in attracting business. Larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we can, and have broader customer and geographic bases to draw upon. Our lending limit restricts our ability to compete with larger financial institutions. Our per customer lending limit is approximately $10.0 million, subject to further reduction based on regulatory criteria relevant to any particular loan. Accordingly, the size of loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size that many of our competitors with larger lending limits are able to offer. This limit has affected and will continue to affect our ability to seek relationships with larger businesses in the market. We seek to accommodate loans in excess of our lending limit through the sale of portions of such loans to other banks although this market has been disrupted from time to time in recent years, as other banks have exited the market or failed, and we may lose loans to competitors. We may need to spend significant money to keep up with technology so we can remain competitive. The banking industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better service to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and may enable us to reduce costs. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional operating efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Such technology may permit competitors to perform certain functions at a lower cost than we can. We may not be able to implement new technology-driven products and services effectively or efficiently or be successful in marketing these to our customers. Periodic testing of the carrying value of our goodwill could result in impairment of goodwill. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment and conditions in the financial markets, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or continued market capitalization declines. This testing could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods, and could also significantly impact certain financial ratios and limit our ability to obtain financing or raise capital in the future. Although a goodwill impairment 27 Table of Contents charge reduces total recorded equity capital, it does not adversely affect the calculation of our regulatory capital, which excludes goodwill from both assets and capital. As of December 31, 2011, we had $3.1 million in goodwill, which represented approximately .56% of our total assets. Confidential customer information transmitted through the Bank’s online banking service could be vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose the Bank to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. The Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. The Bank’s network or those of its customers could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. The Bank may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that the Bank’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose the Bank to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in the Bank’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market by former ABI shareholders or other significant shareholders could depress our stock price. Other than shares held by persons who are affiliates of Bancorp after the merger with ABI, shares of our common stock that were issued to former ABI shareholders in the merger are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We issued 249,483 shares of our common stock in the ABI merger. Also in connection with the $35.0 million financing, we registered 3,888,889 shares of our common stock for resale by the purchasers in the stock purchase, which can be freely traded by such purchasing shareholders. If the former ABI shareholders and/or other shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock may decrease. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we otherwise would deem appropriate. We may issue additional shares of common or preferred stock securities, which may dilute the interests of our shareholders, and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We are currently authorized to issue up to 40 million shares of common stock, of which 5,889,822 shares were outstanding as of February 29, 2012, and up to 10 million shares of preferred stock, none of which were issued or outstanding. Our board of directors has the authority, and in the case of a public offering or nonconvertible preferred stock, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized but unissued common shares, and to establish the terms of any series of preferred stock. These authorized but unissued shares could be issued on terms or in circumstances that could dilute the interests of other shareholders, including the book value of each share of our common stock. Our common stock is thinly traded and, therefore, shareholders and investors may have difficulty selling shares. Our common stock is thinly traded, which can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, and our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire, or at all. 28 Table of Contents We do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that dividends will be paid on our common stock for the foreseeable future and intend to retain all earnings, if any, to support our business. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Factors affecting the volatility of the trading price of our common stock include: • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of other banking institutions; • changes in local, regional and national economic conditions, financial markets or the banking industry; • announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; and • other developments affecting us or other financial institutions. The trading volume of our common stock is limited, which may increase the volatility of the market price for our stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. For example, the trading price of our common stock could decline in reaction to events that negatively affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us at all. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be a target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Shares of common stock are not an insured deposit. Shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Investment in our common stock is subject to investment risk, which could result in the loss of the entire investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 29 Table of Contents 