ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below before you decide to invest in our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business could be seriously harmed. In such case, the value of your investment may decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. You should not invest in our securities unless you can afford the loss of your entire investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of operating losses, working capital deficit, and stockholders’ deficit. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve profitability or have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy. At December 31, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of approximately $8.0 million and a stockholders’ deficit of approximately $6.1 million. Although we have reduced our losses, we continue to sustain losses from operations and for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we incurred net losses applicable to common stockholders of approximately $5.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively. In addition, we did not generate positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. We may not be able to generate profits in the future and may not be able to support our operations or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy, requiring us to raise funds from the capital markets or other sources, resulting in dilution of our common stock. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ deficit. In light of our recurring losses, accumulated deficit and cash flow difficulties, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 contained an explanatory paragraph raising substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments that may be necessary in the event we are unable to continue as a going concern. 8 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K The effects of natural disasters such as Hurricane Sandy or other events over which we have no control could significantly disrupt our operations and could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our carrier services operations were impacted by the effects of Hurricane Sandy in the Northeast region of the United States in late October of 2012. The severe weather conditions directly affected the ability of many of our customers and vendors to connect to us. As a result, we did not generate the same levels of revenues and gross profit that we believe we would have generated absent these abnormal conditions. Any future disruptions to the operation of our network, including acts of war, terrorism or other force majeure, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. Although we do carry business interruption insurance, we cannot assure you that our losses in the event of a natural disaster or other force majeure event would be completely covered by insurance. Our acquisition of NBS does not provide assurance that the operations of NBS will be accretive to our earnings or otherwise improve our results of operations. Acquisitions, such as our recent acquisition of NBS, involve the integration of previously separate businesses into a common enterprise in which it is envisioned that synergistic operations and economies of scale will result in improved financial performance. However, realization of these envisioned results are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties including but not limited to: ● Diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; ● Difficulties integrating the acquired business, technologies and personnel into our business; ● Potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships or key customers of the acquired business; and ● Assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of the acquired business Even though our acquisition of NBS has been consummated, there is no assurance that the acquisition will be accretive to our earnings or otherwise improve our results of operations. Failure to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our senior debt agreements is an event of default under these agreements. Our acquisition of NBS was financed primarily through the issuance of senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $16.5 million. The terms of the senior notes contain a number of affirmative and negative covenants, including but not limited to, restrictions on paying indebtedness subordinate to the senior notes, incurring additional indebtedness, making capital expenditures, dividend payments and cash distributions by subsidiaries. In addition, at all times while the senior notes are outstanding, we are required to maintain a minimum cash bank balance of $1 million, in excess of any amounts outstanding under a permitted working capital line of credit as well as any cash held at NBS. We are also required to comply with various financial covenants, including leverage ratio, fixed charge coverage ratio and minimum levels of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Failure to comply with any of the restrictive or financial covenants could result in an event of default and accelerated demand for repayment of the senior notes. We do not have the financial resources to repay the senior notes if they are accelerated. 9 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K If we are unable to successfully manage the integration of our acquisitions, we may not benefit from our acquisition strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we seek to supplement internal growth with targeted acquisitions, including the recent acquisition of NBS. We may not be successful in integrating newly acquired companies into our day-to-day operations for a variety of possible reasons, including (a) our inability to retain the skilled managerial, technical, and sales personnel of acquired companies; (b) our inability to retain the customers of acquired companies; (c) our lack of success in integrating the services offered by acquired companies with our services to achieve a single package of service offerings; (d) our inability to establish and maintain uniform standards, controls, policies and procedures throughout our acquired companies; or (e) our inability to devote the management time required to successfully integrate acquired companies due to limited management resources. Our carrier services revenue performance is subject to both internal and external influences, which have negatively impacted our revenues and may continue to do so in the future. During 2012, the Company's carrier services revenue was negatively impacted not only by seasonal and economic market fluctuations, but also by a general decline in the overall market for international communications as a result of current economic conditions. We were also adversely affected by limits on our ability to provide extended payment terms to larger customers. We anticipate that these revenue growth constraints will be eased as the general economic conditions and the Company’s financial condition improve, but there is no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to increase revenues and margin contribution in this business segment. Our business is capital intensive, and we do not currently generate sufficient revenues to offset our operating expenses. If we are unable to obtain additional funding as and when required, we may have to significantly curtail or possibly terminate our operations. We will require substantial future capital in order to continue to fund our operating expenses and to otherwise execute our business plan. If we are unable to obtain additional financing or generate sales revenue sufficient to sustain our operations, we could be forced to significantly curtail or suspend our operations, including laying-off employees, selling assets and other measures. Additional capital may not be available to us when needed on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We have historically funded our working capital requirements through the sale of our equity securities. The sale of equity securities to fund operations is dilutive to the equity ownership of our existing stockholders. Unless we are able to substantially increase our revenues to fund our operating expenses, we will in all likelihood be required to continue to fund operations through additional sales of our equity securities. In addition, limited cash resources may restrict our ability to sell those carrier services that require us to purchase termination capacity on shorter payment terms than the terms under which we are able sell to our customers. This could limit our ability to grow our revenues and/or margins, or limit our ability to achieve our revenue and/or margin targets. We have historically relied on our officers and directors to loan us funds to sustain our operations. If such loans are not available if and when we require them in the future, we may have insufficient capital to operate. We have historically relied upon loans from non-related and related parties, including Marvin Rosen, the Chairman of the Board, to fund our operations. During 2011 we received approximately $2.9 million in new loans from Mr. Rosen. In view of the subordination of our obligations to Mr. Rosen to our senior lenders, we do not expect to receive new loans or additional short term advances from Mr. Rosen to fund any of our future liquidity needs. If we are unable to manage our growth or implement our expansion strategy, we may increase our costs without increasing our revenues. We may not be able to expand our product offerings, client base and markets, or implement the other features of our business strategy at the rate or to the extent presently planned. Our projected growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational, and financial resources and may increase our costs. If we are unable to successfully manage our future growth, continue to upgrade our operating and financial control systems, recruit and hire necessary personnel or effectively manage unexpected expansion difficulties, we may not be able to maximize revenues or achieve profitability 10 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K Our ability to grow our carrier services business is dependent upon market developments and traffic patterns, which may lead us to make expenditures that do not result in increased revenues. Our purchase of network equipment and software will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenue growth and market developments. As we expand our network, we will be required to make significant capital expenditures, including the purchase of additional network equipment and software, and to add additional employees. To a lesser extent our fixed costs will also increase from the ownership and maintenance of a greater amount of network equipment including our switching systems, gateways, routers and other related systems. If our traffic volume were to decrease, or fail to increase to the extent expected or necessary to make efficient use of our network, our costs as a percentage of revenues would increase significantly. Changes in technology and service offerings could affect the ability of our Business Services segment to compete in the marketplace for business telecommunications services. Our Business Services segment is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, particularly in the emerging areas of unified communications, cloud services and cloud computing. Our industry has evolved significantly in these areas over the past few years, and will continue to evolve. Emerging technologies could lead to the development of newer, more convenient, more cost-effective or otherwise more attractive services. In addition, the preferences and requirements of business customers are rapidly changing. Our ability to retain current customers and attract new customers may be highly dependent on whether we choose the technologies that will ultimately have the greatest customer acceptance, are able to adopt these new technologies and offer competitive new services when appropriate, or can compete successfully against other service providers that use these new technologies, many of whom may be larger or possess greater financial or technical resources. The development, introduction and marketing of such new services in response to new technologies or new customer demands, may require us to increase our capital expenditures significantly. In addition, new technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may only be available to our competitors and not to us. We may be unable to adapt to rapid technology trends and evolving industry standards, which could lead to our products becoming obsolete. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes due to technology innovation, evolving industry standards and frequent new service and product introductions. New services and products based on new technologies or new industry standards expose us to risks of technical or product obsolescence. We will need to use technologies effectively, continue to develop our technical expertise and enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner to compete successfully in this industry. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively, developing new products or enhancing existing products and services in a timely manner, and we cannot assure you that any new technologies or enhancements used by us or offered to our customers will achieve market acceptance. Some of our services are dependent upon multiple service platforms, network elements, and back-office systems that are reliant on third party providers. We have deployed back-office systems and services platforms that enable us to offer our customers a wide-array of services and features. Sophisticated back office information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, invoice customers, provision client orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. Some of these systems are dependent upon license agreements with third party vendors. These third party vendors may cancel or refuse to renew some of these agreements, and the cancellation or non-renewal of these agreements may harm our ability to invoice customers and provide services efficiently. We may be impacted by litigation regarding patent infringement to which we were not a party. On March 8, 2007, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia ruled that Vonage Holdings had infringed on six patents held by Verizon Communications, and ordered Vonage to pay Verizon $58 million plus a future royalty payment equal to 5.5% of Vonage’s customer sales. The patents related in part to technologies used to connect Internet telephone use to the traditional telephone network. Vonage appealed the decision, but terminated its appeals options in November 2007, when it agreed to pay Verizon approximately $120 million in settlement. The future impact, if any, of this litigation, or of similar litigation that might be initiated by other companies against VoIP service providers, including us, is unclear. If we were restricted from using certain VoIP technologies, it could increase our cost of service or preclude us from offering certain current or future services. 11 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K We rely upon certain proprietary rights in our technology, systems and business procedures. If our protection of these rights were to be compromised, it could negatively affect our ability to compete or to achieve our projected business and financial results. Our ability to compete depends in part upon our proprietary rights in our technology, systems and business procedures. In general, our technology is based on the integration and use of publicly available hardware components, and is therefore afforded little protection under existing patent law. Our software and systems, while developed by us, are generally not unique in such a manner as to allow protection under existing patent law. As a result, we generally rely on a combination of contractual restrictions and the general protection afforded by copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Such limited protection could prove insufficient to protect our proprietary rights and thereby subject us to increased competition or impact the business or financial results of our operations. It is the Company’s policy to require employees, consultants and, when warranted, certain customers and vendors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements provide that confidential information developed or made known during the course of a relationship with us must be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except under certain specific circumstances. If such policies were to prove ineffective in protecting our confidential information, the results of our business or financial performance could be negatively impacted. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has granted Fusion federal registration for two trademarks, and Federal registration of those trademarks will be effective for as long as we continue to use them and renew their registrations. We are also in the process of registering additional trademarks, although there can be no assurance that our effort to register these trademarks will be successful. Fusion does not generally register any of its copyrights with the U.S. Copyright Office, but relies on the protection afforded to such copyrights by the U.S. Copyright Act, which provides protection to authors of original works whether published or unpublished and whether registered or unregistered. Breaches in our network security systems may hurt our ability to deliver services and our reputation and result in liability. We could lose clients or expose ourselves to liability if there are any breaches to our network security systems that jeopardize or result in the loss of confidential information stored in our computer systems. Since our inception, we have experienced two known breaches of network security, which resulted in a temporary failure of certain network operations, but did not result in any losses of confidential customer information or material financial losses. However, a future network security breach could harm our ability to deliver certain services, damage our reputation or subject us to liability. Our revenue growth is dependent upon our ability to build new distribution relationships and to bring on new customers, for which there can be no assurance. Our ability to grow through efficient and cost effective deployment of our VoIP services is in part dependent upon our ability to identify and contract with local entities that will assist in the distribution of our services. This will include local sales partners that sell our corporate services. If we are unable to identify or contract for such distribution relationships, or if the efforts of third party sales agents are not successful, we may not generate the customers or revenues currently envisioned and our results of operations will be adversely impacted. We are dependent upon our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and licenses to enter new domestic and international markets in which such approvals are required. Such approvals may or may not occur as planned and may or may not be delayed. Our entry into new domestic and international markets may in certain cases rely upon our ability to obtain licenses or other approvals to operate in those markets, our ability to establish good working relationships with the relevant telecommunications regulatory authorities in that jurisdiction or our ability to interconnect to the local telephone networks in that market. If we are not able to obtain necessary licenses or approvals, our ability to enter into new markets may be delayed or prevented. 12 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K The communications services industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively. The communications industry, including the provisioning of voice services, Internet services and data services, is highly competitive, rapidly evolving and subject to constant technological change and intense marketing by providers with similar products and services. We expect that new carrier competitors, as well as “gray market” operators (operators who arrange call termination in a manner that bypasses the authorized local telephone company, resulting in high margins for them and substantially lower revenues for the legitimate providers), may have an impact on the market. In addition, many of our current carrier and corporate competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence; greater financial, technical, operational and marketing resources; and more experience. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets where we compete with them, we may not be able to compete successfully in those markets. We also believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect our gross margins if we are not able to reduce our costs commensurate with the price reductions of our competitors. In addition, the pace of technological change makes it impossible for us to predict whether we will face new competitors using different technologies to provide the same or similar services offered or proposed to be offered by us. If our competitors were to provide better and more cost effective services than ours, we may not be able to increase our revenues or capture any significant market share. Industry consolidation could make it more difficult for us to compete. Companies offering voice, Internet, data and communications services are, in some circumstances, consolidating. We may not be able to compete successfully with businesses that have combined, or will combine, to produce companies with substantially greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources, or with larger client bases, more extended networks or more established relationships with vendors, distributors and partners. With these heightened competitive pressures, there is a risk that our revenues may not grow as expected and the value of our common stock could decline. Our ability to provide services is often dependent on our suppliers and other service providers who may not prove to be effective. A majority of the voice calls made by our clients are connected through other communication carriers, which provide us with transmission capacity through a variety of arrangements. Our ability to terminate voice traffic in our targeted markets is an essential component of our ongoing operations. If we do not secure or maintain operating and termination arrangements our ability to increase services to our existing markets, and gain entry into new markets, will be limited. Therefore, our ability to maintain and expand our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with other domestic carriers, Internet service providers, international carriers, satellite providers, fiber optic cable providers and other service providers, many of which are our competitors, and upon our ability to obtain their services on a cost effective basis. In addition, if a carrier with whom we interconnect does not carry the traffic routed to it, or does not provide the required capacity, we may be forced to route our traffic to, or buy capacity from, a different carrier on less advantageous terms, which could reduce our profit margins or degrade our network service quality. In the event network service is degraded, it may result in a loss of customers. To the extent that any of these carriers with whom we interconnect raise their rates, change their pricing structure or reduce the amount of capacity they will make available to us, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We rely on third party equipment suppliers who may not be able to provide us the equipment necessary to deliver the services that we seek to provide. We are dependent on third party equipment suppliers for equipment, software and hardware components, including Cisco, Genband (Nextone), BroadSoft, Dialogic (Veraz) and Global Convergence Solutions. If these suppliers fail to continue product development and research and development or fail to deliver quality products or support services on a timely basis, or we are unable to develop alternative sources of supply if and as required, it could result in an inability to deliver the services that we currently provide or intend to provide, and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 13 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K We rely on the cooperation of other international carriers and/or postal telephone and telegraph companies (“PTTs”), who may not always cooperate with us in our attempts to serve a specific country or market. In some cases, the growth of our carrier services business requires the cooperation of other international carriers and/or the incumbent PTT in order to provide services to or from specific countries or markets. In the event the PTT, or another in-country international carrier, does not cooperate with us or support us in our efforts to serve that country, our ability to provide service to or from that country may be delayed, or the costs to provide service might increase due to our being forced to use another more expensive carrier. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with other international carriers and PTTs, our ability to service an important market could be prevented or adversely affected. Because we do business on an international level, we are subject to an increased risk of tariffs, sanctions and other uncertainties that may hurt our revenues. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, especially in emerging markets, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, the imposition of tariffs or sanctions, licenses, customs, duties, other trade barriers, political risks, currency devaluations, high inflation, corporate law requirements and civil unrest. Many of the economies of these emerging markets we seek to enter are weak and volatile. We may not be able to mitigate the effect of inflation on our operations in these countries by price increases, even over the long-term. Further, expropriation of private businesses in such jurisdictions remains a possibility, whether by outright seizure by a foreign government or by confiscatory tax or other policies. Also, deregulation of the communications markets in developing countries may or may not continue. Incumbent service providers, trade unions and others may resist legislation directed toward deregulation and may resist allowing us to interconnect to their networks. The legal systems in emerging markets also frequently have insufficient experience with commercial transactions between private parties, therefore we may not be able to protect or enforce our rights in some emerging market countries. Governments and regulations may change, thus impacting the availability of new licenses or the cancellation or suspension of existing operating licenses. The instability of the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses, as well as their interpretation and enforcement, could materially impact our business in those countries and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The regulatory treatment of VoIP outside the United States varies from country to country. Some countries are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies and they may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country or impose other more onerous regulations. In such cases, our failure to register could subject us to fines, penalties or forfeiture of our right to do business in that country. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. Additional taxation and government regulation of the communications industry may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services and increased costs of doing business. As a result of changes in regulatory policy, we could be forced to pay additional taxes on the products and services we provide. We structure our operations and our pricing based on assumptions about various domestic and international tax laws, tax treaties and other relevant laws. Taxation authorities or other regulatory authorities might not reach the same conclusions about taxation that we have reached in formulating our assumptions. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if our assumptions about these matters are incorrect or the relevant laws are changed or modified. Generally, in the U.S. our products and services are subject to varying degrees of federal, state and local regulation, including regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and various state public utility commissions. We may also be subject to similar regulation by foreign governments and their telecommunications and/or regulatory agencies. While these regulatory agencies grant us the authority to operate our business, they typically exercise minimal control over our services and pricing. However, they do require the filing of various reports, compliance with public safety and consumer protection standards, and the payment of certain regulatory fees and assessments. 14 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K We cannot assure you that the applicable U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies will grant us the required authority to operate, will allow us to maintain existing authority so we can continue to operate or will refrain from taking action against us if we are found to have provided services without obtaining the necessary authority. Similarly, if our pricing and/or terms and conditions of service are not properly filed or updated with the applicable agencies, or if we are otherwise not fully compliant with the rules of the various regulatory agencies, regulators or other third parties could challenge our actions and we could be subject to forfeiture of our authority to provide service, or to penalties, fines, fees or other costs. We have in the past been delinquent in certain filing and reporting obligations including, but not limited to, filings with the FCC and Universal Service Fund (“USF”) reports and payments. However, we have worked with these various federal and state regulatory agencies to complete the outstanding filings and have resolved the outstanding payment issues. In addition to new regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet, which could hinder our growth. New and existing laws may cover issues that include: sales and other taxes; user privacy; pricing controls; characteristics and quality of products and services; consumer protection; cross-border commerce; copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. Changes to existing regulations or the adoption of new regulations could delay growth in demand for our products and services and limit the growth of our revenue. A large percentage of our current revenues are related to a small group of customers and loss of any of those customers could negatively impact our revenues. A large percentage of our carrier services revenues are provided by a limited number of customers. Specifically, our five largest customers accounted for approximately 52% and 47% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The terms of our customer agreements do not bind the customer contractually to continue using our services and if our business with these customers were to significantly decrease or cease altogether, it could have a negative impact on our revenues and cash flow. If we do not retain our executive officers and senior management, or if we do not continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and independent sales agents, our ability to execute our business plan could be adversely affected. Our existing executive officers and senior management have extensive experience in the telecommunications industry, as well as many years of working together as an integrated management team directing our day-to-day operations. As a result, we are dependent on those individuals and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could impair our ability to execute our strategy or achieve our business and financial objectives. We have entered into employment agreements with Matthew Rosen, our Chief Executive Officer, and with Jonathan Kaufman, the President of our Business Services segment. We do not have employment agreements with any of our other executive officers of senior management. We face competition for qualified personnel, including management, technical, financial and sales personnel. We also rely on independent sales agents to market and sell our services. If we are unable to attract and retain experienced and motivated personnel, including independent sales agents, the growth of our business or the effectiveness of our day-to-day operations may be impacted and we may not be able to grow our customer base or to achieve our business or financial objectives. Risks Related to our Common Stock Although our shares are widely dispersed, two voting blocs may influence the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders; and the interests of these voting blocs may differ from other stockholders. West End Special Opportunity Fund II, LP (“West End”) currently beneficially owns approximately 19.9 million shares, or 8.2%, of our outstanding voting stock, and is the second largest single voting bloc in the Company. Additionally, our directors and executive officers as a group are currently the beneficial owners of approximately 79.9 million shares, or 30.3% of our voting stock. As a result, while neither West End nor our directors and officers as a group have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, the extent of their ownership enables both groups to influence the outcome of these matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions, including business combinations. The interests of the holders of these voting blocs may differ from those of other stockholders. 15 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K We are unlikely to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and expand our business and therefore do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Holders of our outstanding preferred stock are entitled to receive dividends prior to the payment of any dividends on our common stock. The payment of dividends is also subject to provisions of Delaware law prohibiting the payment of dividends except out of surplus and certain other limitations. Our common stock is subject to price volatility unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to the following: ● Ability to obtain securities analyst coverage ● Changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates of our financial performance ● Changes in the market valuations of companies similar to us ● Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new offerings, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures, or capital commitments ● Failure to meet analysts’ expectations regarding financial performance Furthermore, in the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us, regardless of its merit, could result in substantial costs and divert the attention of our management from other business concerns, which in turn could harm our business. Our common stock may become subject to the “penny stock” rules of the SEC, which will make transactions in our shares cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our shares. For so long as the trading price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, our common stock may be considered a "penny stock," and in such event trading in our common stock would be subject to the requirements of Rule 15g-9 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under this rule, broker/dealers who recommend low-priced securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker/dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written consent prior to the transaction. SEC regulations also require additional disclosure in connection with any trades involving a "penny stock," including the delivery, prior to any penny stock transaction, of a disclosure schedule explaining the penny stock market and its associated risks. These requirements severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market because few broker or dealers are likely to undertake these compliance activities. In addition to the applicability of the penny stock rules, other risks associated with trading in penny stocks could also be price fluctuations and the lack of a liquid market. 16 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K To date, we have not been considered a “penny stock” due to an exemption from Rule 15g-9 for companies with average annual audited revenues for the prior three years of in excess of $6,000,000 per year. However, should the exclusions from the definition of a “penny stock” change, or should our annual revenues fall dramatically, we may become subject to rules applicable to “penny stocks” and the market for our shares may be adversely affected. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under our certificate of incorporation and the existence of indemnification rights in favor of our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our Company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions which eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our Company and stockholders to the maximum extent permitted under Delaware corporate law. Our by-laws also require us to indemnify our directors to the maximum extent permitted by Delaware corporate law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with our directors, officers and employees. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our Company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors, officers and employees, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our Company from bringing a lawsuit against directors, officers and employees for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors, officers and employees even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our Company and stockholders. Our use of equity to fund operations is dilutive to stockholders and, depending upon the market price for our shares at the time of issuance, we may be required to issue shares at depressed prices. Historically, we have funded our working capital requirements through the sale of our equity. The use of our equity to fund operations is dilutive to the equity ownership of our securities by our existing stockholders. Unless we are able to generate substantial revenues to fund our operating expenses, we will, in all likelihood, be required to continue to fund operations through the sale of our equity. Moreover, the dilutive effect on our stockholders of the issuance of new equity shares is directly impacted by the market price for our shares at the time of issuance. If we are required to issue shares at a time when the market price for our shares is depressed, we will issue more shares than if the market price was higher, and the dilutive effect on our stockholders will be greater. The issuance of our common stock upon the exercise of options or warrants or the conversion of outstanding convertible securities may cause significant dilution to our stockholders and may have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. As of March 25, 2013, there were 178,250,533 Shares outstanding and 70,127,091, 87,046,889 and 8,817,973 Shares reserved for issuance upon conversion of outstanding preferred stock, exercise of outstanding warrants and exercise of outstanding options, respectively. The issuance of our Shares upon the exercise of stock options or warrants, or conversion of preferred stock, will increase the number of our publicly traded shares, which could depress the market price of our Shares. The perceived risk of dilution may cause our stockholders to sell their Shares, which would contribute to a downward movement in the stock price of our Shares. Moreover, the perceived risk of dilution and the resulting downward pressure on our stock price could encourage investors to engage in short sales of our Shares. By increasing the number of Shares offered for sale, material amounts of short selling could further contribute to progressive price declines in our Shares We could use preferred stock to fund operations or resist takeovers, and the issuance of preferred stock may cause additional dilution. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 5,045 shares of Series A-1, A-2 and A-4 Preferred Stock are currently issued and outstanding, and 6,861.75 shares of our Series B-1 Preferred Stock are currently issued and outstanding. Our certificate of incorporation gives our board of directors the authority to issue preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders. We may issue additional shares of preferred stock to raise money to finance our operations. We may authorize the issuance of the preferred stock in one or more series. In addition, we may set the terms of preferred stock, including: 17 Back to Table of Contents FUSION TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERNATIONAL, INC. 2012 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K ● Dividend and liquidation preferences ● Voting rights ● Conversion privileges ● Redemption terms ● Other privileges and rights of the shares of each authorized series The issuance of large blocks of preferred stock could possibly have a dilutive effect to our existing stockholders. It can also negatively impact our existing stockholders’ liquidation preferences. In addition, while we include preferred stock in our capitalization to improve our financial flexibility, we could possibly issue our preferred stock to friendly third parties to preserve control by present management. This could occur if we become subject to a hostile takeover that could ultimately benefit our stockholders and us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable to a smaller reporting company. 