RISK FACTORS Arcadia has identified the following important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements the Company may make from time to time: We recently became a public company and have a limited operating history as a public company upon which you can base an investment decision. The shares of our Common Stock have been quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board since August 2, 2002. We accomplished a reverse acquisition with Arcadia Services and Arcadia Rx on May 10, 2004. We have a limited operating history as a public company upon which you can make an investment decision, or upon which we can accurately forecast future sales. You should, therefore, consider us subject to all of the business risks associated with a new business. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered in connection with the formation and initial operations of a new and unproven business. To finance RKDA’s acquisition of Arcadia Services and our subsequent acquisitions, the Company incurred significant debt which must be repaid. Our debt level could adversely affect our financial health and affect our ability to run our business, as well as your investment in our Company. We incurred substantial debt to finance RKDA’s acquisition of Arcadia Services and our Post-merger Acquisitions. As of March 31, 2005, the current portion of our interest-bearing debt totals approximately $7.9 million, while the long-term portion of our debt totals approximately $15.0 million, for a total of approximately $22.9 million. This level of debt could have important consequences to you as a holder of shares. Below are some of the material potential consequences resulting from this significant amount of debt: • We may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. • Our ability to adapt to changing market conditions may be hampered. We may be more vulnerable in a volatile market and at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. • Our operating flexibility is more limited due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on our properties, making acquisitions and paying dividends. • We are subject to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase. • Our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business is more limited. Under certain circumstances, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we add new debt, the related risks that we now face could intensify. In order to repay our debt obligations timely and as discussed below, we must maintain adequate cash flow from operations or raise additional capital from equity investment. Cash which we must use to repay these obligations will reduce cash available for purposes, such as payment of operating expenses, investment in new products and services offered by the Company, self-financing of acquisitions to grow the Company’s business, or distribution to our shareholders as a return on investment. Due to our significant debt level, we may not be able to increase the amount we can draw on our revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank, or to obtain credit from other sources, to fund our future needs for working capital or acquisitions. We may require additional credit for working capital and acquisition purposes. On May 7, 2004, Arcadia and three wholly-owned subsidiaries entered into a credit agreement with Comerica Bank which provides the borrowers with a revolving credit facility with a credit commitment amount of up to $12 million through May 7, 2006. The credit agreement provides that advances to the Company will not exceed the lesser of the revolving credit commitment amount or the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness permitted under the advance formula amount at any one time. The advance formula base is 85% of the eligible accounts receivable, plus the lesser of 85% of eligible unbilled accounts or $2 million, plus an overformula advance of $1 million payable within one year in 12 monthly installments. Subsequently, additional funds were drawn on the overformula advance. On July 29, 2004, the revolving credit commitment amount was increased to $14.4 million, and on November 23, 2004 it was increased to $16 million. On November 23, 2004, the credit agreement was amended to provide that the overformula balance is $1.2 million and that overformula advance is payable at the rate of $100,000 per month for 12 consecutive months, which began in January 2005. On May 3, 2005, Comerica removed a loan covenant requiring Messrs. Elliott and Kuhnert to own 25% of the common stock of the Company, however, Comerica still requires their personal guarantees on the revolving credit facility. 5 Table of Contents The revolving credit commitment amount on the original Comerica Bank credit facility has been increased twice since May 7, 2004 and we have secured a new revolving credit commitment for Trinity Healthcare. Since that date, we have completed six business acquisitions, in addition to the RKDA reverse merger. In the future, the Company may need to seek an increase in the amount the Company is permitted to draw on the revolving credit facility to finance working capital or staffing business acquisitions. Management cannot presently quantify the likelihood of this occurring. Factors that have bearing on whether we may require additional credit include our ability to assimilate our acquired businesses by reducing operating costs through economies of scale, our ability to increase revenues through internal growth based on our existing cost structure, and our ability to generate cash from operations sufficient to service our debt level and operating costs. On February 18, 2005, Trinity Healthcare of Winston-Salem, Inc. (“Trinity Healthcare”), a wholly-owned subsidiary, entered into a separate credit agreement with Comerica Bank which provides Trinity Healthcare with a revolving credit facility of up to $2,000,000 payable upon demand of Comerica Bank. The credit agreement provides that advances to Trinity Healthcare will not exceed the lesser of the revolving credit commitment amount or the aggregate principal amount of indebtedness permitted under the advance formula amount at any one time. The advance formula base is 80% of the eligible accounts receivable, subject to Comerica Bank’s adjustment to account for dilution of accounts receivable caused by customer credits, returns, setoffs, etc., plus 30% of eligible inventory. As of March 31, 2005, the total outstanding amount drawn on the Company’s credit facilities was approximately $22.9 million, of which approximately $15.0 million is classified as long-term debt. Under the advance formula in effect as of this date and based on the amount of the Company’s eligible accounts receivable, the Company is eligible to draw a total of approximately $24.4 million on its credit facilities, less repayment of the overformula amount. There is always the risk that Comerica Bank or other sources of credit may decline to increase the amount we are permitted to draw on the revolving credit facility or to lend additional funds for working capital or acquisition purposes. This development could result in various consequences to the Company, ranging from implementation of cost reductions which could impact our product and service offerings, to the modification or abandonment of our present business strategy. The terms of our Credit Agreements with Comerica Bank subject us to the risk of foreclosure on certain property. RKDA granted Comerica Bank a first priority security interest in all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Arcadia Services. Arcadia Services and its subsidiaries granted the bank security interests in all of their assets. The credit agreement provides that the debt will mature on May 7, 2006. If an event of default occurs, Comerica Bank may, at its option, accelerate the maturity of the debt and exercise its right to foreclose on the issued and outstanding capital stock of Arcadia Services and on all of the assets of Arcadia Services and its subsidiaries. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, SSAC, LLC, the sole-shareholder of Trinity Healthcare, granted Comerica Bank a first priority security interest in all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Trinity Healthcare. Trinity Healthcare granted the bank a security interest in all of its assets. The master revolving demand note provides that the debt will mature and is payable upon the demand of Comerica Bank. If an event of default occurs, Comerica Bank may, at its option, accelerate the maturity of the debt and exercise its right to foreclose on the issued and outstanding capital stock of and on all of the assets of Trinity Healthcare. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 6 Table of Contents In order to repay our short term debt obligations, as well as to pursue our strategy of growth through acquisitions, we intend to obtain equity financing, which could result in dilution to our stockholders. During calendar years 2005 and 2006, the Company presently intends to raise a minimum of up to $20 million, preferably from the equity markets, to retire short term debt and to finance acquisitions and expansion. In the short term, the Company anticipates raising a minimum of approximately $8 million in equity to satisfy short term debt obligations, with additional funds to be raised from the equity or debt markets to fund selected acquisitions. Further, because of our potential capital requirements needed to pursue our business plan of growth through acquisition, we may access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions appear to us to be favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. To the extent we access the equity markets, the price at which we sell shares may be lower than the current market prices for our Common Stock. If we obtain financing through the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities, this could result in dilution to our stockholders by increasing the number of shares of outstanding stock. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our Common Stock. To the extent we do not successfully raise funds from the equity markets to satisfy short term debt obligations or to finance new acquisitions, we would need to seek debt financing or modify or abandon our growth strategy or product and service offerings. To the extent that we do not successfully raise funds from the equity markets to satisfy short term debt obligations or to finance new acquisitions, we will need to seek debt financing. In this event, we may need to modify or abandon our strategy to grow through acquisition or may need to eliminate certain product or service offerings, because debt financing is generally at a higher cost than financing through equity investment. Higher financing costs, modification or abandonment of our growth strategy, or the elimination of product or service offerings could negatively impact our profitability and financial position, which in turn could negatively impact the price of our Common Stock and your investment in our Company. Given the Company’s net proceeds from financing activities during the year ended March 31, 2005, the changes in the Company’s operational and financial position that have occurred during this period, and assuming no material decline in our revenues, management does not presently anticipate that the Company will be unsuccessful in its efforts to raise funds from the equity markets, although there is no guarantee that the Company will in fact successfully raise such funds from equity. Due to the Voting Agreement, the Company’s principal officers may significantly influence the Board of Directors to retain their offices and senior management positions and for the Company to pursue their business strategies, notwithstanding the Company’s financial performance. The Voting Agreement assures Messrs. Elliott and Kuhnert that during its term, a majority of our Board of Directors will consist of individuals nominated and elected by them. This assures Messrs. Elliott and Kuhnert that a majority of the Board will consist of directors who likely share their strategic vision for the Company, and who are likely supportive of the business strategies they propose, as well as their management of the Company. This gives them significant influence over the selection and the removal of the Company’s officers and senior management by the Board, including the management positions they each hold. They could influence a majority of the Board to retain their offices and senior management positions with the Company or to renegotiate their terms of employment and compensation, notwithstanding the Company’s financial performance. Absent the Voting Agreement, they may not have the ability to exert such influence, because although they are collectively the owners of 21,300,000 of the Company’s outstanding Common Stock and have 1,000,000 Class A Warrants to purchase 1,000,000 shares of the Company’s Common Stock at $0.50 per share within seven years, they collectively own less than a majority of the outstanding stock. They may also exert significant influence over a majority of the Board relative to the submission of issues to the Company’s shareholders at annual and special meetings other than for the election of directors, such as the amendment of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the approval of a merger or consolidation of the Company with another company, and the approval of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company. 7 Table of Contents Because the Company is dependent on key management and advisors, the loss of the services or advice of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The success of the Company is dependent on its ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced management and personnel. The Company anticipates the continued receipt of the services of John E. Elliott, II, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Larry Kuhnert, the Company’s Vice Chairman of Finance, Treasurer, President and Chief Operating Officer, Rebecca R. Irish, the Company’s Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, and Cathy Sparling, Arcadia Service’s Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services or advice of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on the business and prospects of the Company. We do not presently maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain key personnel in the future, and the Company’s inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. A decline in the rate of growth of the staffing and home care industries, or negative growth, could adversely affect us by reducing sales, thereby resulting in less cash being available for the payment of operating expenses, debt obligations and to pursue our strategic plans. The staffing industry, including both medical and non-medical staffing, is a large and growing market. Industry publications project estimated staffing industry revenues of approximately $102 billion in 2004 and nearly $111 billion in 2005, which are estimated annual growth rates of 7.7% from 2003 to 2004 and 8.8% from 2004 to 2005.1 The growth in medical staffing is being driven by the shrinkage in the number of health care professionals at the same time as the demand for their services is increasing. Health care providers are increasingly using temporary staffing to manage fluctuations in demand for their services. Growth in non-medical staffing is driven by companies seeking to control personnel costs by increasingly using temporary employees to meet fluctuating personnel needs. Our business strategy is premised on the continued and consistent growth of the staffing and home care industries. A decline in the rate of growth of the staffing and home care industries, or negative growth, could adversely affect us by reducing sales, resulting in lower cash collections. Even if we were to pursue cost reductions in this event, there is a risk that less cash would be available to us to pay operating expenses, in which case we may have to contract our existing businesses by abandoning selected product or service offerings or geographic markets served, as well as to modify or abandon our present business strategy. We could have less cash available to pay our short and long-term debt obligations as they become due, in which event we could default on our obligations. Even if none of these events occurred following a negative change in the growth of the staffing and home care industries, the market for our shares of Common Stock could react negatively to a decline in growth or negative growth of these industries, potentially resulting in the diminished value of our Company’s Common Stock and your investment in the Company. Sales of certain of our services and products are largely dependent upon payments from governmental programs and private insurance, and cost containment initiatives may reduce our revenues, thereby harming our performance. We have a number of contractual arrangements with governmental programs and private insurers, although no individual arrangement accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, 2004 or 2003. Nevertheless, sales of certain of our services and products are largely dependent upon payments from governmental programs and private insurance, and cost containment initiatives may reduce our revenues, thereby harming our performance. Certain of our competitors may have or may obtain significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. In addition, relatively few barriers to entry exist in local health care markets. As a result, we would encounter increased competition in the future that may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share for our durable medical equipment, mail order pharmacy and related businesses. 1 Staffing Industry Report, Vol. XV, No. 14 (July 30, 2004) 8 Table of Contents In the U.S., health care providers and consumers who purchase durable medical equipment, prescription drug products and related products generally rely on third party payers to reimburse all or part of the cost of the health care product. Such third party payers include Medicare, Medicaid and other health insurance and managed care plans. Reimbursement by third party payers may depend on a number of factors, including the payer’s determination that the use of our products is clinically useful and cost-effective, medically necessary and not experimental or investigational. Also, third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Since reimbursement approval is required from each payer individually, seeking such approvals can be a time consuming and costly process. In the future, this could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer separately. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain the costs of health care products and services by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new and existing products and services. There can be no assurance that third party reimbursement coverage will be available or adequate for any products or services that we develop. We could be subject to severe fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business or if those laws and regulations change. Certain of the health care-related products and services offered by the Company are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. Financial relationships between our Company and physicians and other referral sources are subject to governmental regulation. Government officials and the public will continue to debate health care reform and regulation. Changes in health care law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. The markets in which the Company operates are highly competitive and the Company may be unable to compete successfully against competitors with greater resources. The Company competes in markets that are constantly changing, intensely competitive (given low barriers to entry), highly fragmented and subject to dynamic economic conditions. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, loss of customers, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our net revenue and results of operations. Many of the Company’s competitors and potential competitors relative to the Company’s products and services in the areas of surgical supplies, orthotic and prosthetic products, durable medical equipment, and oxygen and respiratory services, have more capital, substantial marketing, and technical resources and expertise in specialized financial services than does the Company. These competitors include: on-line marketers, national wholesalers, and national and regional distributors. Further, the Company may face a significant competitive challenge from alliances entered into between and among its competitors, major HMOs or chain drugstores, as well as from larger competitors created through industry consolidation. These potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly than the Company to emerging market changes or changes in customer needs. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, which could result in our failure to increase revenues or to avoid duplication of costs among acquired businesses, thereby adversely affecting our financial results and profitability. The successful integration of an acquired business is dependent on various factors including the size of the acquired business, the assets and liabilities of the acquired business, the complexity of system conversions, the scheduling of multiple acquisitions in a given geographic area and management’s execution of the integration plan. Our business plan is premised on increasing our revenues by leveraging the strengths of our staffing and home care network to cross sell our other products and services. Our business plan is also premised on avoiding duplication of cost among our existing and acquired businesses where possible. If we fail to successfully integrate in these key areas, our Company’s financial results and profitability will be adversely affected, due to the failure to capitalize on the economies of scale presented by spreading our cost structure over a wider revenue base. 9 Table of Contents The failure to implement the Company’s business strategy may result in our inability to be profitable and adversely impact your investment in our Company. We anticipate that the Company will pursue an aggressive growth strategy, which will depend, in large part, upon our ability to develop and expand the Company’s businesses. We anticipate pursuing growth by various means, including the acquisition of existing businesses. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including the diversion of management’s attention, issues related to the assimilation of the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, and potential adverse effects on operating results, unforeseen liabilities and increased administrative expenses. We believe that the failure to implement an aggressive growth strategy, as well as a failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, may result in our inability to be profitable, because our business plan is premised on, among other things, capitalizing on the economies of scale presented by spreading our cost structure over a wider revenue base. Our inability to achieve profitability could adversely impact your investment in our Company. We cannot predict the impact that the registration of the shares may have on the price of the Company’s shares of Common Stock and the value of your investment in our Company. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that sales of, or the availability for sale of, our Common Stock pursuant to this Registration Statement and prospectus or otherwise will have on the market price of our securities prevailing from time to time. The possibility that substantial amounts of our Common Stock might enter the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Common Stock and could impair our ability to fund acquisitions or to raise capital in the future through the sales of securities. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities, including shares issued upon the exercise of options or warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely effect prevailing market prices for our securities. Ownership of our stock is concentrated in a small group of stockholders who may exercise substantial control over our actions to the detriment of our other stockholders. There are five shareholders of the Company after elimination of duplication due to attribution resulting from application of the beneficial ownership provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including John E. Elliott II and Lawrence R. Kuhnert, who are beneficial owners of 5% or more of the Company’s shares of Common Stock outstanding as of May 1, 2005. These shareholders collectively own 62.83% of our shares of Common Stock outstanding as of May 31, 2005. This concentrated ownership of our Common Stock gives a few stockholders the ability to control our Company and the direction of our business as to matters requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, certain acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporation transactions. This concentrated ownership, as well as the Voting Agreement to which some of these shareholders are a party, will prevent other shareholders from influencing the election of directors and other significant corporate decisions, to the extent that these five shareholders vote their shares of Common Stock together. The price of our Common Stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile, which could diminish your ability to recoup your investment, or to earn a return on your investment, in our Company. The market price of our Common Stock, like that of the securities of many other companies with limited operating history and public float, has fluctuated over a wide range and it is likely that the price of our Common Stock will fluctuate in the future. From August 2, 2002 through the period ended March 31, 2005, the closing price of our Common Stock, as quoted by the OTC Bulletin Board, has fluctuated from a low of $0.10 during the six months ended March 31, 2003 to a high of $4.20 during the nine months transitional period ended September 30, 2002. During the year ended March 31, 2005, which period includes the May 10, 2004 effective date of the RKDA Merger, the closing price of our Common Stock, as quoted by the OTC Bulletin Board, has fluctuated from a low of $0.39 to a high of $2.00. On June 28, 2005, the last reported sale price of our Common Stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board was $1.96 per share. Due to the volatility of the price our Common Stock, you may be unable to resell your shares of our Common Stock at or above the price you paid for them, thereby exposing you to the risk that you may not recoup your investment in 10 Table of Contents our Company or earn a return on your investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If we are the target of similar litigation in the future, our Company would be exposed to incurring significant litigation costs. This would also divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Because our Common Stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, there may be difficulty in trading and obtaining quotations for our Common Stock, and you should consider our Common Stock to be illiquid. The Company’s Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol ACDI. The bid and asked prices for our Common Stock have fluctuated significantly. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, the company’s securities. This severely limits the liquidity of the Common Stock and would likely have a material adverse effect on the market price of the Common Stock and on our ability to raise additional capital. You should consider our Common Stock to be illiquid. Because there is no established market for our Class A Warrants and we do not expect our Class A Warrants to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, there may be difficulty in trading and obtaining quotations for our Class A Warrants and you should consider our Class A Warrants to be illiquid. There is no established market for our Class A Warrants. The Company’s Class A Warrants are not quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, nor are they listed on any exchange. We do not expect our Class A Warrants to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, nor are they listed on any exchange. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to trade, dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations of the price of, our Class A Warrants. You should consider our Class A Warrants to be illiquid. Your resale of any securities you acquire under this prospectus may be limited and affected by state blue-sky laws, which could adversely affect the price of our securities and your investment in our Company. Under the securities laws of some states, shares of common stock and warrants can be sold in such states only through registered or licensed brokers or dealers. In addition, in some states, warrants and shares of common stock may not be sold unless these shares have been registered or qualified for sale in the state or an exemption from registration or qualification is available and is complied with. The requirement of a seller to comply with the requirements of state blue sky laws may lead to delay or inability of a holder of our securities to dispose of such securities, thereby causing an adverse effect on the resale price of our securities and your investment in our Company. Our Common Stock is subject to the SEC’s Penny Stock rules, which may make our shares more difficult to sell. Because our Common Stock is not traded on a stock exchange or on Nasdaq, and the market price of the Common Stock is less than $5.00 per share, the Common Stock is classified as a “penny stock.” The SEC rules regarding penny stocks may have the effect of reducing trading activity in our Common Stock and making it more difficult for investors to sell. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed; and • give bid and offer quotations and broker and salesperson compensation information to the customer orally or in writing before or with the confirmation. These rules may make it more difficult for broker-dealers to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities and may result in a lower trading volume of our Common Stock and lower trading prices. 11 Table of Contents The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the price of Common Stock and the rights of holders of our Common Stock. The Company is authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock, par value $0.001. Shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as may be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors has authority to fix by resolution adopted before the issuance of any shares of each particular series of preferred stock, the designation, powers, preferences, and relative participating, optional and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations, and restrictions. The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the price of Common Stock and the rights of holders of our Common Stock, including voting rights. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of Common Stock, and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of Common Stock. The existence of authorized but unissued preferred stock may enable the Board of Directors to render more difficult or to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. The exercise of common stock warrants may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our Common Stockholders. A total of 10.2 million warrants to purchase 10.2 million shares of our Common Stock are issued and outstanding as of June 28, 2005. The market price of our Common Stock is more than exercise price of outstanding warrants, therefore, holders of those securities are likely to exercise their warrants and sell the Common Stock acquired upon exercise of such warrants in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market by holders of warrants may depress the prevailing market price for our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding warrants exercise those warrants, our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock warrants, including Class A Warrants, is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as certain anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the common stock warrants. We have granted stock options to certain investors, and we grant stock options to our directors and employees as compensation. The exercise of stock options may depress our stock price and result in dilution to our common stockholders. As of June 28, 2005, options to purchase 9.5 million shares of our Common Stock were issued and outstanding, although only 1.5 million were exercisable with the remaining options subject to conditional requirements. The market price of our Common Stock is more than the exercise price of the outstanding options, therefore, holders of those securities are likely to exercise their options and sell the Common Stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Common Stock in the public market by holders of options may depress the prevailing market price for our Common Stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options exercise those options, our common stockholders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the option agreement. We are dependent on our affiliated agencies and internal sales force to sell our services and products, the loss of which could adversely affect our business. We largely rely upon our affiliated agencies to sell our staffing and home care services and on our internal sales force to sell our durable medical equipment and pharmacy products. As of June 28, 2005, Arcadia Services has 27 affiliated agencies. Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies are owner-operated businesses. The office locations 12 Table of Contents maintained by our affiliated agencies are listed on our Company’s website. The primary responsibilities of Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies include the recruitment and training of field staff employed by Arcadia Services and generating and maintaining sales to Arcadia Services’ customers. The arrangements with affiliated agencies are formalized through a standard contractual agreement, which state performance requirements of the affiliated agencies. Our affiliated agencies and internal salesforce operate in particular defined geographic regions. Our employees provide the services to our customers and the affiliated agents and internal sales force are restricted by non-competition agreements. In the event of loss of our affiliated agents or internal sales force personnel, we would recruit new sales and marketing personnel and/or affiliated agents which could cause our operating costs to increase and our sales to fall in the interim. The lack of a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors may affect our ability to be listed on a national securities exchange or quotation system. We are not subject to the listing requirements of any national securities exchange or quotation system. The listing standards of the national securities exchanges and automated quotation systems require that the Board of Directors consist of a majority of directors who are independent as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined by listing standards, and that the audit committee of the Board of Directors must consist of at least three members, all of whom are independent. Similarly, the compensation and nominating committees of the Board of Directors must consist of independent directors. Currently, only one of our directors, who is also member of our Audit Committee, meets the definition of an “independent” director as defined by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as defined by listing standards. Further, a majority of our directors are executive officers and thereby do not satisfy these independence standards. There is no guarantee that we will be able to appoint two additional directors who will satisfy these independence requirements. If we are unable to appoint two additional independent directors to our Board, we will be precluded from listing any of our capital stock on a national securities exchange or quotation system. It is our intention that a majority of the Company’s directors will satisfy independence standards by the end of 2005. Our Board of Directors, which is not fully independent, acts as the compensation committee, which presents the risk that compensation and benefits paid to two of our executive officers who are Board members and significant shareholders may not be commensurate with the Company’s financial performance. A compensation committee consisting of independent directors is a safeguard against self-dealing by company executives. Our Board of Directors acts as a compensation committee and determines the compensation and benefits of our executive officers, administers our employee stock and benefit plans, and reviews policies relating to the compensation and benefits of our employees. Our Board of Directors presently consists of two executive officers of our Company, whom (i.e., Messrs. Elliott and Kuhnert) presently own more than approximately 24% of our outstanding Common Stock and control the election of a majority of the Board of Directors through the Voting Agreement. Although all Board members have fiduciary obligations in connection with compensation matters, our lack of an independent compensation committee presents the risk that our executive officers on the Board may influence the entire Board to set their personal compensation and benefits at levels that are not commensurate with the Company’s financial performance. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of our control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of Common Stock. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of our control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of Common Stock. This could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. This could negatively impact the value of your investment in our Company, by discouraging a potential suitor who may otherwise be willing to offer a premium for your shares of the Company’s common stock. The Nevada Business Corporation Law, N.R.S. §78.378 et seq., governs the acquisition of a controlling interest. This law provides generally that any person or entity that acquires twenty (20%) percent or more of the outstanding voting shares of a Nevada corporation obtains voting rights in the acquired shares as conferred by a resolution of the stockholders of the corporation, approved at a special or annual meeting of the stockholders. The articles of incorporation or bylaws of a corporation, however, may provide that the these provisions do not apply to the 13 Table of Contents corporation or to an acquisition of a controlling interest. On May 4, 2004, our Board of Directors adopted an amendment to our Bylaws providing that the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes Sections 78.378 et seq. do not apply to an acquisition of a controlling interest of shares owned, directly or indirectly, whether of record or not, now or at any time in the future, by John E. Elliott, II, Lawrence R. Kuhnert or any of the persons subject to the Voting Agreement. All other persons or entities, however, remain subject to N.R.S. §78.378 et seq., unless our articles of incorporation or bylaws are amended to exempt such persons or entities from these statutory anti-takeover provisions. The Nevada Business Corporation Law, N.R.S. §78.411 et seq., governs combinations with interested stockholders. These provisions may have an effect of delaying or making it more difficult to effect a change in control of the Company. These provisions preclude an interested stockholder (i.e., the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting shares of a corporation, or an affiliate or association thereof) and a resident, domestic Nevada corporation from entering into a combination (e.g., a merger, sale, lease, exchange, etc.) unless certain conditions are met. The provisions generally preclude a resident, domestic corporation from engaging in any combination with an interested stockholder for three years after the date that the person first became an interested stockholder unless the combination or the transaction by which the person first became an interested stockholder is approved by the board of directors before the person first became an interested stockholder. If approval is not obtained, then after the expiration of the three-year period the business combination may be consummated with the approval of the board of directors or a majority of the voting power held by the disinterested stockholders, or if the consideration to be paid by the interested stockholder exceeds certain thresholds set forth in the statute. We are subject to N.R.S. §78.411 et seq. of the Nevada Business Corporat 