Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information provided in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following material risk factors carefully before deciding to invest in the Company’s securities. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company, which the Company currently deems not material or which are similar to those faced by other companies in the Company’s industry or business in general, such as competitive conditions, may also impact the Company’s business operations. If any of the events described below occur, the Company’s business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of the Company’s common stock may decline, in which case the value of your investment may decline as well. References herein to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Capital Bank Corporation, a company incorporated in North Carolina, and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires. Risks Related to Our Business U.S. and international credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and profitability. Global market and economic conditions continue to be disruptive and volatile and the disruption has particularly had a negative impact on the financial sector. The possible duration and severity of this adverse economic cycle is unknown. Although we remain well capitalized and have not suffered any liquidity issues as a result of these recent events, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets. Continued turbulence in U.S. and international markets and economies may also adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition and profitability. Legislative and regulatory actions taken now or in the future to address the current liquidity and credit crisis in the financial industry may significantly affect our liquidity or financial condition. The Federal Reserve, U.S. Congress, the Treasury, the FDIC and others have taken numerous actions to address the current liquidity and credit situation in the financial markets. These measures include actions to encourage loan restructuring and modification for homeowners; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; and coordinated efforts to address liquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The EESA, which established the TARP, was enacted on October 3, 2008. As part of the TARP, the Treasury created the CPP, under which the Treasury will invest up to $250 billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings associations or their holding companies for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. On February 17, 2009, the ARRA was enacted as a sweeping economic recovery package intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. We participated in the CPP and sold $41.3 million of our Series A Preferred Stock, and a warrant to purchase 749,619 shares of our common stock to the Treasury. Future participation in this or similar programs may subject us to additional restrictions and regulation. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA or its programs, including the CPP, and ARRA or its programs, will have on the national economy or financial markets. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. Further, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory authorities continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including interpretation and implementation of statutes, regulation or policies, including EESA, ARRA, and TARP and recently proposed executive compensation guidance by the Federal Reserve and FDIC, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer or increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products. While we cannot predict the regulatory changes that may be borne out of the current economic crisis, and we cannot predict whether we will become subject to increased regulatory scrutiny by any of these regulatory agencies, any regulatory changes or scrutiny could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand our permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and other institutions. We cannot predict whether new legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, the effect that it, or any regulations, would have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. - 13 - - Index Changes in local economic conditions could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce our net income and growth. Our business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on local economic conditions in central and western North Carolina. These fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition even if other favorable events occur. Our operations are locally oriented and community-based. Accordingly, we expect to continue to be dependent upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the local residential and commercial real estate markets we serve. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could weaken the economies of the communities we serve. Weakness in our market areas could depress our earnings and consequently our financial condition because: • customers may not want or need our products or services; • borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and • the quality of our loan portfolio may decline. Any of the latter three scenarios could require us to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for credit losses, which would reduce our net income. Because the majority of our borrowers are individuals and businesses located and doing business in Wake, Granville, Lee, Cumberland, Johnston, Chatham, Alamance, Buncombe and Catawba Counties, North Carolina, our success will depend significantly upon the economic conditions in those and the surrounding counties. Unfavorable economic conditions or a continued increase in unemployment rates in those and the surrounding counties may result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced demand for credit and may harm the financial stability of our customers. Due to our limited market areas, these negative conditions may have a more noticeable effect on us than would be experienced by a larger institution that is able to spread these risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. We are exposed to risks in connection with the loans we make. A significant source of risk for us arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. We have underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that we believe are appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our loan portfolio. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. Loan defaults result in a decrease in interest income and may require the establishment of or an increase in loan loss reserves. Furthermore, the decrease in interest income resulting from a loan default or defaults may be for a prolonged period of time as we seek to recover, primarily through legal proceedings, the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest and default interest due on a defaulted loan plus the legal costs incurred in pursuing our legal remedies. No assurance can be given that recent market conditions will not result in our need to increase loan loss reserves or charge off a higher percentage of loans, thereby reducing net income. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, and events that negatively impact the real estate market could hurt our business. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 83% of our loans had real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. A continued weakening of the real estate market in our primary market areas could continue to result in an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our profitability and asset quality. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and shareholders’ equity could be adversely affected. The declines in home prices in the markets we serve, along with the reduced availability of mortgage credit, also may result in increases in delinquencies and losses in our portfolio of loans related to residential real estate construction and development. Further declines in home prices coupled with a deepened economic recession and continued rises in unemployment levels could drive losses beyond that which is provided for in our allowance for loan losses. In that event, our earnings could be adversely affected. - 14 - - Index Additionally, recent weakness in the secondary market for residential lending could have an adverse impact on our profitability. Significant ongoing disruptions in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans have limited the market for and liquidity of most mortgage loans other than conforming Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loans. The effects of ongoing mortgage market challenges, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further price reductions in single family home values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing mortgage loans held, mortgage loan originations and gains on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses or other factors, could have further adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our real estate and land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and the value of the complete project. We extend real estate land loans, construction loans, and acquisition and development loans to builders and developers, primarily for the construction/development of properties. We originate these loans on a presold and speculative basis and they include loans for both residential and commercial purposes. As of December 31, 2009, these loans totaled $452.1 million, or 33% of our total loan portfolio. Approximately $100.7 million of this amount was for construction of residential properties and $59.9 million was for construction of commercial properties. Additionally, approximately $219.3 million was for acquisition and development loans for both residential and commercial properties. Land loans, which are loans made with raw land as security, totaled $72.2 million, or 5% of our portfolio, as of December 31, 2009. In general, construction and land lending involves additional risks because of the inherent difficulty in estimating a property’s value both before and at completion of the project. Construction costs may exceed original estimates as a result of increased materials, labor or other costs. In addition, because of current uncertainties in the residential and commercial real estate markets, property values have become more difficult to determine than they have been historically. Construction and land acquisition and development loans often involve the repayment dependent, in part, on the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property. These loans also require ongoing monitoring. In addition, speculative construction loans to a residential builder are often associated with homes that are not presold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. As of December 31, 2009, $85.0 million of our residential construction loans were for speculative construction loans. Slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to an increase in nonperforming loans as well as an increase in delinquencies. Residential construction loans and commercial construction loans represented 18% and 0%, respectively, of our nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2009. Our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may be dependent on factors outside the control of our borrowers. We originate non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans for individuals and businesses for various purposes, which are secured by commercial properties. These loans typically involve repayment dependent upon income generated, or expected to be generated, by the property securing the loan in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. This may be adversely affected by changes in the economy or local market conditions. Non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans expose a lender to greater credit risk than loans secured by residential real estate because the collateral securing these loans typically cannot be liquidated as easily as residential real estate. If we foreclose on a non-owner occupied commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral typically is longer than a 1-4 family residential property because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Additionally, non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, charge-offs on non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As of December 31, 2009, our non-owner occupied commercial real estate loans totaled $245.7 million, or 18% of our total loan portfolio. Repayment of our commercial business loans is dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We offer different types of commercial loans to a variety of small to medium-sized businesses. The types of commercial loans offered are owner-occupied term real estate loans, business lines of credit and term equipment financing. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with non-owner occupied commercial real estate lending. Our commercial business loans are primarily underwritten based on the cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral, including real estate. The borrowers’ cash flow may be unpredictable, and collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Some of our commercial business loans are collateralized by equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other business assets, and the liquidation of collateral in the event of default is often an insufficient source of repayment because accounts receivable may be uncollectible and inventories may be obsolete or of limited use. - 15 - - Index As of December 31, 2009, our commercial business loans totaled $378.1 million, or 27% of our total loan portfolio. Of this number, $194.4 million was secured by owner-occupied real estate and $183.7 million was secured by business assets. A portion of our commercial real estate loan portfolio utilizes interest reserves which may not accurately portray the financial condition of the project and the borrower’s ability to repay the loan. Some of our commercial real estate loans utilize interest reserves to fund the interest payments and are funded from loan proceeds. Our decision to establish a loan-funded interest reserve upon origination of a loan is based on the feasibility of the project, the creditworthiness of the borrower and guarantors and the protection provided by the real estate and other collateral. When applied appropriately, an interest reserve can benefit both the lender and the borrower. For the lender, an interest reserve provides an effective means for addressing the cash flow characteristics of a properly underwritten acquisition, development and construction loan. Similarly, for the borrower, interest reserves provide the funds to service the debt until the property is developed, and cash flow is generated from the sale or lease of the developed property. Although potentially beneficial to the lender and the borrower, our use of interest reserves carries certain risks. Of particular concern is the possibility that an interest reserve may not accurately reflect problems with a borrower’s willingness or ability to repay the debt consistent with the terms and conditions of the loan obligation. For example, a project that is not completed in a timely manner or falters once completed may appear to perform if the interest reserve keeps the loan current. In some cases, we may extend, renew or restructure the term of certain loans, providing additional interest reserves to keep the loan current. As a result, the financial condition of the project may not be apparent and developing problems may not be addressed in a timely manner. Consequently, we may end up with a matured loan where the interest reserve has been fully advanced, and the borrower’s financial condition has deteriorated. In addition, the project may not be complete, its sale or lease-up may not be sufficient to ensure timely repayment of the debt or the value of the collateral may have declined, exposing us to increasing credit losses. As of December 31, 2009, we had a total of 50 loans funded by an interest reserve with a total outstanding balance of $142.3 million, representing approximately 10% of our total outstanding loans. Total commitments on these loans equaled $178.8 million with total remaining interest reserves of $5.0 million, representing a weighted average term of approximately nine months of remaining interest coverage. These loans had a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of 72% based on the most recent appraisals. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business, and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: • cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; • the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan; • the duration of the loan; • the credit history of a particular borrower; and • changes in economic and industry conditions. We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, which we believe is appropriate to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to: • our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience and certain macroeconomic factors based on management’s expectations of future events; and • our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral. - 16 - - Index The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for probable loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our allowance for loan losses is not adequate, we may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans, which could adversely affect our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $23.1 million compared to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, an increase of $19.2 million. We also recorded net loan charge-offs of $11.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Generally, our nonperforming loans and assets reflect operating difficulties of individual borrowers resulting from weakness in the local economy; however, more recently the deterioration in the general economy has become a significant contributing factor to the increased levels of delinquencies and nonperforming loans. Slower sales and excess inventory in the housing market has been the primary cause of the increase in delinquencies and foreclosures for residential construction loans, which represented 18% of our nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2009. In addition, slowing housing sales have been a contributing factor to the increase in nonperforming loans as well as the increase in delinquencies. As of December 31, 2009, our total nonperforming loans increased to $39.5 million, or 2.84% of total loans, compared to $9.1 million, or 0.73% of total loans, as of December 31, 2008. If current trends in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect that we will continue to experience higher than normal delinquencies and credit losses. Moreover, until general economic conditions improve, we may continue to experience increased delinquencies and credit losses. As a result, we may be required to make additional provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses to address unknown liabilities and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on nonresidential real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Our earnings and financial condition are dependent to a large degree upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings. Approximately 62% of our loans were variable rate loans as of December 31, 2009, which means that our interest income will generally decrease in lower interest rate environments and rise in higher interest rate environments. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we earn on loans and investments decreases faster than the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings. We cannot predict with certainty or control changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities, including monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, affect interest income and interest expense. We have ongoing policies and procedures designed to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. - 17 - - Index The fair value of our investments could decline. The majority of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 has been designated as available-for-sale. Unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio must be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained $235.4 million, or 96%, of our total investment securities as available-for-sale. Shareholders’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these investments. The fair value of our investment portfolio may decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareholders’ equity. As of December 31, 2009, our available-for-sale securities portfolio contained $8.3 million in book value of non-agency mortgage-backed securities with gross unrealized losses of $567 thousand. We may continue to observe declines in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other-than-temporary impairment each reporting period, and as of December 31, 2009, one of our non-agency mortgage-backed securities with an unrealized loss of $381 thousand was determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Management determined that the impairment related to this security was not a credit impairment; however, there can be no assurance that future evaluations of this security or other similar securities will not result in other-than-temporary impairment related to credit which will negatively impact future earnings. Further, the Company owns two corporate bonds in the available-for-sale investment portfolio, both of which were issued by community banks. After performing a thorough analysis of these two bonds and the issuers, management determined that both were other-than-temporarily impaired as of December 31, 2009. An unrealized loss of $202 thousand on one of the bonds was determined not to be a credit impairment, but an unrealized loss of $498 thousand on the other bond was determined to be a credit impairment, which required a charge to earnings. There may be future declines in the fair value of these corporate bond investments which would negatively impact shareholders’ equity and may impact future earnings. Management believes that several factors affect the fair values of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, changes to the credit ratings and financial condition of security issuers, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation, and the slope of the interest rate yield curve. The yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates. These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and we cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. Government regulations may prevent or impact our ability to pay dividends, engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways. Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect our operations. We are subject to supervision and periodic examination by the FDIC and the NC Commissioner. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit our growth and the return to you, our current and/or potential investors, by restricting certain of our activities, such as: • payment of dividends to our shareholders; • possible mergers with, or acquisitions of or by, other institutions; • our desired investments; • loans and interest rates on loans; • interest rates paid on our deposits; • the possible expansion of our branch offices; and/or • our ability to provide securities or trust services. We also are subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that we are found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on our future business and earnings prospects. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public and the FDIC, not shareholders. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements including those imposed by the SEC may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. - 18 - - Index Specifically, federal and state governments could pass additional legislation responsive to current credit conditions. We could experience higher credit losses because of legislation or regulatory action that reduces the amounts borrowers are contractually required to pay under existing loan contracts or that limits our ability to foreclose on property or other collateral or makes foreclosure less economically feasible. The FDIC imposed a special assessment on all FDIC-insured institutions, which decreased our earnings in 2009, and future special assessments could adversely affect our earnings in future periods. The FDIC increased risk-based assessment rates uniformly by 7 basis points, on an annual basis, beginning in the first quarter of 2009. In May 2009, the FDIC announced that it had voted to levy a special assessment on insured institutions in order to facilitate the rebuilding of the Deposit Insurance Fund. The assessment was equal to 5 basis points of the Bank’s total assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The FDIC collected this special assessment on September 30, 2009. The Company recorded total expense related to this special assessment of $765 thousand during the year ended December 31, 2009. The FDIC has indicated that future special assessments are possible, although it has not determined the magnitude or timing of any future assessments. Any such future assessments will decrease our earnings. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC announced its intention to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for the following three years. Such prepaid assessments were collected on December 30, 2009 at a rate based on the insured institution’s modified third quarter 2009 assessment rate. Our prepaid assessment was $7.3 million, which will be recognized as expense over the three-year assessment period. The terms governing the issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury may be changed, the effect of which may have an adverse effect on our operations. The terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, which we entered into with the Treasury, provides that the Treasury may unilaterally amend any provision of the Securities Purchase Agreement to the extent required to comply with any changes in applicable federal law that may occur in the future. We have no control over any change in the terms of the transaction that may occur in the future. Such changes may place restrictions on our business or results of operations, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. There are potential risks associated with future acquisitions and expansions. We intend to continue to explore expanding our branch system through selective acquisitions of existing banks or bank branches in the Research Triangle area and other markets in North Carolina, South Carolina and Virginia, at this time particularly through FDIC-assisted transactions. We cannot say with any certainty that we will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate, future acquisitions, or that we will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In the ordinary course of business, we evaluate potential acquisitions that would bolster our ability to cater to the small business, individual and residential lending markets in our target markets. In attempting to make such acquisitions, we anticipate competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. The process of identifying acquisition opportunities, negotiating potential acquisitions, obtaining the required regulatory approvals, and integrating new operations and personnel requires a significant amount of time and expense and may divert management’s attention from our existing business. In addition, since the consideration for an acquired bank or branch may involve cash, notes or the issuance of shares of common stock, existing shareholders could experience dilution in the value of their shares of our common stock in connection with such acquisitions. Any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect our results of operations or overall financial condition. In addition, we may expand our branch network through de novo branches in existing or new markets. These de novo branches will have expenses in excess of revenues for varying periods after opening, which could decrease our reported earnings. Our ability to raise additional capital could be limited, could affect our liquidity and could be dilutive to existing shareholders. We may be required or choose to raise additional capital, including for strategic, regulatory or other reasons. Current conditions in the capital markets are such that traditional sources of capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms if we needed to raise additional capital, and the inability to access the capital markets could impair our liquidity, which is important to our business. In such case, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully raise additional capital at all or on terms that are favorable or otherwise not dilutive to existing shareholders. - 19 - - Index We are dependent on our key personnel, including our senior management and directors, and our inability to hire and retain key personnel may adversely affect our operations and financial performance. We are, and for the foreseeable future will be, dependent on the services of our senior management and directors. Members of our senior management have extensive and long-standing ties within our market area and substantial experience with our operations, which have contributed significantly to our growth. Should the services of a member of our senior management team become unavailable, our operations and growth may be disrupted, and there can be no assurance that a suitable successor could be retained upon the terms and conditions that we would offer. In December 2008, we entered into the Securities Purchase Agreement in connection with the CPP pursuant to which we sold the Treasury 41,279 shares of our Series A Preferred Stock and a warrant to purchase up to 749,619 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $41.3 million. Our participation in the CPP restricts our ability to provide certain types of compensation to certain senior executive officers and employees. The inability to make certain types of compensation available to certain senior executive officers and employees may reduce our ability to retain key personnel. Further, as we continue to grow our operations both in our current markets and other markets that we may target, we expect to continue to be dependent on our senior management and their relationships in such markets. Our inability to attract or retain additional personnel could materially adversely affect our business or growth prospects in one or more markets. We compete with larger companies for business. The banking and financial services business in our market areas continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: • changes in regulations; • changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. We may not be able to compete effectively in our markets, and our results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. We compete for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and nonbank financial services providers, many of which have substantially greater resources, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. The failure of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine transactions, including, for example, funding transactions, could be adversely affected by the actions and potential failures of other financial institutions. We have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with a variety of counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or concerns about, one or more financial institutions with which we do business, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by others. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral we hold cannot be sold at prices that are sufficient for us to recover the full amount of our exposure. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could limit our revenue. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks through the use of various electronic payment systems. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. - 20 - - Index Technological advances impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. Our information systems, or those of our third party contractors, may experience an interruption or breach in security. We rely heavily on our communications and information systems, and those of third party contractors, to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that we can prevent any such failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems, or those of our third party contractors, or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of such information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Issues discovered related to the administration and termination of the 1st State Bancorp, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan may subject us to liability and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We discovered that the 1st State Bancorp, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”), which was to be terminated immediately prior to the Bank’s merger with 1st State Bank in 2006, was not correctly terminated. Among other things, we have discovered that certain required filings with the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) related to the termination of the ESOP were never made, insufficient withholding taxes may have been submitted to the IRS, and incorrect distributions may have been made from the ESOP, resulting in potential overpayment of certain accounts and underpayment of others. We are currently in the process of determining the source and extent of these potential errors and have engaged outside counsel and an independent third party record keeper to assist with correcting the errors and preparing the necessary filings with the IRS and U.S. Department of Labor. We may be subject to penalties and interest from the IRS due to the delinquent filings and insufficient payment of taxes and potential liability to participants in the ESOP. We may also be required to reimburse certain funds if improperly distributed from the ESOP. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recorded total expense of $244 thousand related to this ESOP matter, which represented corrective amounts that the Company contributed to the ESOP as well as professional fees incurred through the end of the year. The Company is still in the process of determining the final corrective amounts to be contributed to the ESOP, and in future periods, may record expense related to additional contributions and/or penalties and interest from the IRS or DOL as additional facts become known. If these amounts are material, such additional payments may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. - 21 - - Index Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading volume in our common stock has been low, which could make it difficult for you to sell your shares. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Our common stock is thinly traded and has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for many other publicly traded companies. Thinly traded stocks can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include but are not limited to changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections, our announcement of developments related to our business, operations and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers, news reports of trends, concerns, irrational exuberance on the part of investors and other issues related to the financial services industry. Recently, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies, including those in the financial services sector, have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to operating performance. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market declines or market volatility in the future, especially in the financial institutions sector of the economy, could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volume, prices or times that they desire. We may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that will dilute the percentage ownership interest of existing shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock and adversely affect the terms on which we may obtain additional capital. Our authorized capital includes 50,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2009, we had 11,348,117 shares of common stock outstanding and had reserved for issuance 366,583 shares underlying options that are or may become exercisable at an average price of $11.76 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had the ability to issue 575,559 shares of common stock pursuant to options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future under our existing equity compensation plans. Subject to applicable NASDAQ Listing Rules, our Board of Directors generally has the authority, without action by or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of any authorized but unissued shares of common stock for any corporate purpose, including issuance of equity-based incentives under or outside of our equity compensation plans. We may seek additional equity capital in the future as we develop our business and expand our operations. Any issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible securities will dilute the percentage ownership interest of our shareholders and may dilute the book value per share of our common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations, which may affect our ability to pay our obligations and dividends. We are a separate legal entity from the Bank and our other subsidiaries, and we do not have significant operations of our own. We have historically depended on the Bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends to pay our operating expenses. Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies without regulatory approval. The Bank is also subject to limitations under state law regarding the payment of dividends, including the requirement that dividends may be paid only out of undivided profits and only if the Bank has surplus of a specified level. In addition to these explicit limitations, it is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the federal and state regulatory agencies could take the position that payment of dividends by the Bank would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations or is otherwise unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our obligations as they become due or to pay dividends on our common stock or Series A Preferred Stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. In addition, holders of our common stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board of Directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically paid cash dividends on our common stock, we are not required to do so and our Board of Directors has recently announced that it has suspended the payment of our quarterly cash dividend. This could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Also, we are a financial holding company and our ability to declare and pay dividends depends on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. - 22 - - Index The Treasury’s investment in us imposes restrictions and obligations limiting our ability to pay dividends and repurchase common stock. Under the Securities Purchase Agreement and the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock set forth in our Articles of Incorporation, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is restricted. Specifically, we may not declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. Furthermore, prior to December 12, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the Series A Preferred Stock, or the Treasury has transferred all of the Series A Preferred Stock to a third party, the consent of the Treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase common stock dividends or effect repurchases of common stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity-based employee compensation awards). Holders of Series A Preferred Stock have certain voting rights that may adversely affect our common shareholders, and the holders of Series A Preferred Stock may have different interests from, and vote their shares in a manner deemed adverse to, our common shareholders. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive), the Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our Board of Directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid; otherwise, except as required by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. So long as shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of shareholders required by law or our Articles of Incorporation, the vote or consent of holders owning at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding is required for: • any amendment or alteration of our Articles of Incorporation to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends and/or distribution of assets on our liquidation, dissolution or winding up; • any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of our Articles of Incorporation so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A Preferred Stock; or • any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A Preferred Stock or of a merger or consolidation of us with another entity, unless (i) the shares of Series A Preferred Stock remain outstanding following any such transaction or, if we are not the surviving or resulting entity, such shares are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (ii) such remaining outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock or preference securities, as the case may be, have rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, that are not materially less favorable than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to such consummation, taken as a whole. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock could block such a transaction, even where considered desirable by, or in the best interests of, holders of our common stock. In addition, the shares of common stock that are issuable upon the exercise of the warrant held by the Treasury will enjoy voting rights identical to those of our other outstanding shares of common stock. Although the Treasury has agreed not to vote the shares of common stock it would receive upon any exercise of the warrant, a transferee of any portion of the warrant or any of the shares of common stock it acquires upon exercise of the warrant is not bound by this limitation. There can be no assurance when the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed and the warrant held by the Treasury may be repurchased. There can be no assurance when the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed and the warrant may be repurchased. In addition, the Series A Preferred Stock may only be redeemed upon the express approval of the Federal Reserve. Until such time as the Series A Preferred Stock is redeemed and the warrant is repurchased, we will remain subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Securities Purchase Agreement, the warrant and the rights of the Series A Preferred Stock as set forth in the Articles of Incorporation. - 23 - - Index The holders of our subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of our shareholders. We have issued $30.9 million of subordinated debentures in connection with three trust preferred securities issuances by our subsidiaries, Capital Bank Statutory Trust I, II and III. We conditionally guarantee all payments of the principal and interest on these trust preferred securities. Our subordinated debentures are senior to our shares of common stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) before any dividends can be paid on our common stock and, in the event of bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of common stock. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 